26 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations Environmental Technologies Creating Key Statistics products that Capital expenditure 97.1 million Capex depreciation 1.2 benefit the Average invested capital 1,492 million environment Employees 5,640 Year to 31st March % at 2012 2011 % constant million million change rates Revenue 3,255 2,708 20 20 Sales excluding precious metals sales 1,876 1,566 20 20 Underlying operating profit 211.8 164.7 29 29 Return on sales 11.3% 10.5% Return on invested capital ROIC 14.2% 11.5% Sales Sales by Destination Fuel Cells Rest of World 1% 14% Process Technologies Europe 21% 35% Emission Control Rest of Asia Emission Control Technologies 11% Technologies Light Duty Stationary 52% Emissions Control China 3% 9% Emission Control Technologies North America Heavy Duty Diesel 31% 23% Divisional Sales Divisional Underlying Operating Profit million million 1,876 250 2,000 211.8 1,566 200 1,500 164.7 1,252 1,135 150 124.3 120.9 1,000 100 500 50 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Excluding inter-segment sales.
Environmental Technologies supplies catalysts 27 and technologies which contribute to pollution control, cleaner fuels, greener power and the more efficient use of hydrocarbon resources.
The division is focused on maintaining differentiation through technology by investing Strategy in R&D.
This investm ent is vital to ensure Environmental Technologies can continue to develop high performance leading edge catalysts and technologies for its customers.
Maintain differentiation A deep understanding of markets and customers enables the division to provide the through technology by right solutions for its customers in evolving markets, for example those driven by investing in R&D tightening legislation.
In addition, the purchase of its catalysts or technologies is often part of significant investment decisions at its customers and so strong relationships and A deep understanding of a good understanding of customers needs are crucial to the divisions success.
markets and customers Manufacturing Excellence is an important element of the strategy.
Many of the divisions activities involve manufacturing products for its customers and it is focused on running its plants at optimum efficiency to produce the highest quality products at minimum Manufacturing Excellence operating cost.
The division aims to deliver superior growth in markets that are driven by global trends, such as environmental regulation, increasing wealth and natural resource constraints, Deliver superior growth and where applying its expertise in leading edge catalysis and technologies can generate growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
Process Technologies Fuel cells are widely recognised as an Description of the Business Process Technologies manufactures emerging technology to power a range of Environmental Technologies Divisions speciality catalysts, absorbents and equipment from cars and buses to laptops products and services are used globally in additives for the methanol, ammonia, and mobile phones.
Johnson Matthey Fuel applications which benefit the environment.
hydrogen, gas coal to products, oil Cells is at the leading edge of fuel cell It supplies catalysts and technologies refineries and gas processing industries.
which contribute to pollution control, These catalysts allow industrial processes cleaner fuels, greener power and the more to operate using less energy and to Performance in 2011 12 efficient use of hydrocarbon resources.
It convert raw materials to desired products comprises of three businesses: Environmental Technologies Division more efficiently.
performed well in 2011 12 achieving Davy Process Technology DPT good growth throughout the year.
Revenue Emission Control Technologies ECT develops chemical process technologies grew 20% to 3,255 million: sales were ECT consists of Johnson Mattheys global and licenses them to customers in the oil, 20% ahead at 1,876 million and autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel and gas and petrochemical industries.
Its underlying operating profit was 29% up stationary emissions control businesses.
extensive portfolio includes a number of at 211.8 million.
We are a world leading manufacturer of technologies which incorporate sustainable Environmental Technologies Divisions catalysts for vehicle exhaust emission feedstocks such as waste fats and oils.
return on sales for the year increased by control and catalyst systems for the Tracerco is a specialist measurement 0.8% to 11.3%.
ECTs overall return on reduction of emissions from industrial business that provides process diagnostic sales improved with higher plant utilisation processes.
services through a broad range of and as a result of lower costs following the ECTs products are used globally to analytical techniques and instrumentation.
closure of its Brussels plant.
However, reduce emissions from vehicles and other Process Technologies serves return on sales was impacted by 15 million pollution sources to ensure they meet customers around the world and has of higher costs for rare earth materials legislated environmental limits.
Its products manufacturing sites in the UK, USA, India incurred in the first half of the year.
This are fitted to about a third of all cars and China, supported by technology was resolved satisfactorily in the second produced in the world and, since their development facilities in the UK and the half.
Process Technologies return on sales introduction in 1974, these products have US and technical offices in all of the key was slightly ahead of last year, benefiting had a major impact on air quality across markets worldwide.
from the strong performance from our the globe, preventing many millions of higher margin DPT business.
tonnes of pollutants from reaching the Fuel Cells The divisions ROIC improved from atmosphere.
Johnson Matthey has a world leading 11.5% to 14.2% and is expected to ECTs manufacturing plants are position in the development and improve further as plant utilisation rates located in the UK, Germany, Macedonia, manufacture of catalysts and catalysed increase.
Russia, USA, Mexico, Argentina, South components for fuel cells, a technology for Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India, China and generating low carbon power.
R&D facilities are in the USA, The business has the worlds largest UK, Germany, Sweden, Japan, China, fuel cell component manufacturing facility South Korea and Brazil.
in Swindon, UK for the production of membrane electrode assemblies MEAs for hydrogen and methanol fuelled systems and is backed by extensive research and development efforts.
28 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Environmental Technologies continued Emission Control Technologies As a result of the complex catalyst systems Johnson Mattheys Light Duty Emission Control Technologies sales required to meet European diesel emissions Vehicle Catalyst Sales by Region grew by 21% from 1,218 million to standards, a diesel vehicle currently 1,470 million.
2012 2011 % represents approximately five times the million million change catalyst value of an equivalent gasoline vehicle for Johnson Matthey.
Catalyst value Europe 588 544 8 Light Duty Catalysts Asia 201 168 20 will increase further with the introduction of Our light duty catalyst business, which North America 180 167 8 Euro 6 light duty diesel emissions standards represented 66% of ECTs sales in the in 2014, which will require additional catalyst Total 969 879 10 year, grew well with sales up 10% to fitment to meet tighter NOx standards.
969 million and operating profit up by During the year our European sales also a similar percentage.
benefited from our strong market share with In Johnson Mattheys financial year to Our sales in Europe of 588 million, some of the most successful car companies 31st March 2012, global light duty vehicle which represent 61% of our light duty in the region and from the introduction of sales grew by 3% to 76.1 million vehicles.
catalyst sales, increased by 8%, ahead of higher technology products.
These Global production grew steadily, by 2.5%, the growth in vehicle production which was products offer our customers opportunities with a strong recovery in North America only up 0.5%.
Our sales benefited from to reduce costs through advanced throughout the year, a moribund market in growth in the proportion of diesel vehicles technology, including the more efficient use Europe which declined in our second half, produced in Western Europe which of raw materials.
and slight growth in Asia, albeit affected in represented 55% of total light vehicle On 31st January 2011 ECT entered the first half by the Japanese earthquake production, up from 54% last year.
Sales into consultation with the employees at and tsunami and in the second half by the also benefited from the full fitment of diesel its inefficient Brussels facility regarding its floods in Thailand.
In China, growth in car particulate filters DPFs to light commercial closure.
The plant ceased production in production was lower than last year, but vehicles in Western Europe, completing July 2011 and all production was still increased by 5%.
the process of fitment of these products transferred to other ECT sites with annual to all light duty diesel vehicles in the region.
cost savings of approximately 18 million per year.
Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production Despite the challenges presented by the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, Year to 31st March 2012 2011 % the floods in Thailand and slower growth millions millions change in China, our Asian light duty catalyst North America Sales 15.6 14.5 7.6 business grew strongly with sales up 20% Production 13.6 12.4 9.7 to 201 million.
Light duty vehicle production in the region in 2011 12 grew Total Europe Sales 19.0 18.7 1.6 Production 19.8 19.7 0.5 by just over 1%.
However, our sales grew at a much faster rate as the result of Asia Sales 30.8 30.5 1.0 growth in our market share in many parts Production 37.7 37.2 1.3 of the region and a strong recovery in our Global Sales 76.1 73.9 3.0 Japanese business in the second half with Production 77.7 75.8 2.5 robust demand from the original equipment Source: IHS Automotive manufacturers OEMs in Japan once their factories were back on line.
With continued economic expansion, increasing disposable income and tightening legislation across the region, Asia should remain a growth engine for ECT in the years ahead.
It takes raw materials and energy to make a catalytic converter for a car but at what point do the environmental benefits of a catalyst outweigh the environmental costs of producing it?
A Johnson Matthey team embarked on an analysis to understand and better quantify the sustainability benefits of one of its environmental technologies.
The tool chosen was quantitative life cycle assessment LCA, which allows the impact of a product to be traced during its whole life.
A life cycle experts group was formed, made up of 12 people from across Johnson Mattheys businesses.
The team then selected one of the companys core products a catalytic converter for a diesel powered car for analysis.
The study was highly insightful and informative and generated several key learning points for the company.
With the help of the LCA tools, Johnson Matthey aims to better understand the environmental and health benefits of other key products and develop new technologies with enhanced sustainability benefits in the future.
Read the full case study at www.
In North America the light duty Innovation in Action vehicle market showed good growth with production in the region up nearly 10% in our financial year.
Our sales grew at a slightly lower rate, up 8% to 180 million, as our North American Japanese transplant customers, where we have a higher market share, were impacted by supply chain issues following the Japanese earthquake and tsunami and flooding in Thailand.
Since mid 2010, prices of rare earth raw materials have increased dramatically following the imposition of export quotas by the Chinese government.
The main rare Staying Ahead of the Legislation earth material that we use is cerium oxide, Catalysts are now routinely fitted to vehicles to control the emissions of pollutants which is used to provide oxygen storage including carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, unburnt hydrocarbons and soot.
capabilities in catalysts for gasoline vehicles.
However, legislators are now starting to address the issue of greenhouse gas Rare earth prices peaked in mid 2011 and, emissions from vehicles too, with Europe, North America and Japan all proposing although now well below previous highs, limits.
In Europe, for example, a carbon dioxide CO emissions limit of 95g km by 2 prices remain significantly above those in 2020 has been proposed.
In response to this One method of decreasing CO emissions and improving fuel economy is to 2 situation, ECT took steps to reduce the use the waste heat in the exhaust to promote a chemical reaction between exhaust impact of rising rare earth material costs gases and some added hydrocarbons to generate a higher calorific value fuel that by a combination of thrifting, substitution can be fed back into the engine to help combustion efficiency.
for cheaper raw materials and negotiating One approach is to use a catalyst promoted steam reforming reaction at price surcharges with its customers.
Due elevated temperature to generate a hydrogen rich fuel to feed back into the engine.
to the magnitude and speed of the cost Given that the exhaust contains both steam and waste heat, the steam reforming increases, ECTs results were adversely reaction is an attractive technology for tackling CO emissions while at the same 2 affected by around 5 million in 2010 11 time improving fuel economy.
and 15 million in the first half of 2011 12.
Johnson Matthey, in collaboration with the University of Birmingham in the UK, However, by the second half of 2011 12 has been studying systems to generate hydrogen mixtures from exhaust gas and the effects of higher rare earth prices were added fuel e. g. gasoline, demonstrating feasibility both in the lab and on small fully mitigated and any future increases single cylinder engines.
We are now working to develop this further, with partners should no longer impact the business.
including Ford, Jaguar Land Rover and Cambustion, as part of a project that is partially funded by the UKs Technology Strategy Board.
The project has a number of themes with an overall goal of providing a series of measures to reduce CO. Our 2 work is focused on demonstrating that a catalytic hydrogen generator reformer can be integrated with a four cylinder gasoline engine to deliver a reduction in CO 2 emissions of up to 4%.
30 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Environmental Technologies continued Heavy Duty Diesel Catalysts Innovation in Action Sales of heavy duty diesel HDD catalysts for both on road and non-road applications grew strongly again this year, up 48% to 438 million and operating profit more than doubled.
Production of heavy duty diesel trucks in North America continued to grow robustly throughout the year, increasing by 50% to 452,000 vehicles as trucking companies replaced their ageing fleets.
In Europe, truck sales recovered last year from the global downturn and production growth this year remained robust at 7%.
Johnson Mattheys Heavy Duty Diesel Vehicle Catalyst Sales by Region Deeper Knowledge of NOx Removal Catalysts 2012 2011 % million million change Johnson Mattheys range of emission control catalysts includes vanadium based North America 295 194 52 products that use selective catalytic reduction SCR to control oxides of nitrogen Europe 116 91 27 NOx emissions from industrial powerplants.
In order to further enhance our Asia 27 11 137 knowledge of these SCR DeNOx catalysts and the chemistry of NOx removal, we Total 438 296 48 have turned to an advanced characterisation technique which allows us to probe our catalysts at the atomic scale.
This technique, called solid state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy SSNMR, has been available to Johnson Matthey for a number of years through its In North America our sales grew in collaboration work with leading universities.
Recently however, via a knowledge line with truck production, up 52% to transfer partnership with the University of Warwick in the UK, we have brought the 295 million as we maintained our strong technique in house, thus enabling us to study a wider range of advanced materials market share.
In Europe our sales were up in a faster time.
We have successfully used SSNMR to study vanadium based SCR 27% to 116 million, well ahead of growth DeNOx catalysts and improve our understanding of the molecular environment of in truck production in the EU.
However, the catalytically active vanadium species.
In addition, we continue to work with our European sales also include export scientists at the University of Warwick to perform even more advanced sales of around 5 million to Brazil, where spectroscopic analyses on our materials.
This information is proving invaluable in Euro V legislation started at the beginning helping us to develop novel, higher performance catalysts to tackle harmful NOx.
of 2012, and strong sales into Eastern European markets.
HDD catalyst sales in Heavy Duty Diesel Vehicle Sales Outlook calendar years Euro IV US 07 Euro V Euro VI US 2010 regulations EU Truck Sales USA Class 4-8 Truck Sales thousands thousands 500 450 400 400 350 300 300 250 200 200 0 150 100 100 50 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Source: LMC Automotive April 2012 31 In the Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Estimated HDD Truck Sales and Production Gas AMOG business, which includes the Additives business, sales of its catalysts, Year to 31st March 2012 2011 % absorbents and speciality additives were thousands thousands change 27% ahead at 256 million.
Excluding North America Sales 405.2 287.4 41.0 Additives, sales would have been 3% up.
Production 451.8 301.0 50.1 Catalyst sales to ammonia customers EU Sales 298.7 257.4 16.0 grew well in the year and were 8% ahead Production 386.4 360.2 7.3 at 45 million, however as we expected, sales of methanol catalysts were lower Source: LMC Automotive at 42 million, 14% down on those in 2010 11 which saw commissioning of a Japan grew from a low base to 27 million, Towards the end of the year ECT number of new plants in China and the as new legislation requiring the fitment of commenced a major expansion project Middle East.
Sales of catalysts to hydrogen DPFs came into force.
The implementation at its plant in Macedonia that will double customers grew strongly again this year, of Euro IV legislation in China has been capacity at the site.
Plans were also up 40% to 67 million.
Legislation requiring delayed until mid 2013 due to issues with approved to increase our DPF production lower sulphur levels in fuels and the the supply of low sulphur diesel fuel.
Both of these continued trend of processing dirtier, However, very low level sales of HDD projects will provide additional capacity for heavier crude in refineries supported catalysts have commenced to OEMs in both the high technology products required for demand for hydrogen which in turn China and India as truck manufacturers tighter European light and heavy duty generated an increase in our sales.
At only Euro IV diesel legislation, commencing in 2014.
Demand for gas purification products, equivalent and with relatively simple In addition, during the year the business used to remove contaminants such as engines, these markets are likely to have has added capacity in China for upcoming sulphur and mercury from gas streams, lower technology requirements than HDD requirements and expanded its plants was impacted, with sales 33% down on Europe or North America and thus we are in India and Malaysia to serve growth in car last year, as the business continued to feel likely to face much more competition from production in India and South East Asia.
the effect of delayed investment in large our existing competitors and local players.
During the year sales also commenced The Additives business made a good Process Technologies to non-road OEMs, such as manufacturers first full years contribution to AMOG and is Process Technologies delivered good growth of construction, mining and agricultural performing ahead of our expectations at in the year with sales 19% up at 401 million.
equipment, in the USA and Europe where the time of acquisition.
We are already The business benefited from another legislation requiring the use of emission leveraging technology synergies between excellent year from DPT and from a full control catalysts is being phased in our additives and refinery catalysts and are years contribution from the Additives between 2011 and 2015.
Sales of HDD drawing on the customer relationships in business formerly Intercat, which was catalysts to non-road customers grew both businesses to create new opportunities acquired in November 2010 and supplies from a low base, contributing 20 million for the combined product range.
speciality products to the petroleum in the year.
Operating profit was also well ahead of last year, boosted by the very strong performance from the higher margin DPT business.
Case Study From Waste Stream to Commercial Byproduct In 2004 a water treatment facility at our Clitheroe plant in the UK began operating.
At that time, the cost of disposing of waste sodium nitrate was a significant financial overhead.
Today, much of that waste stream has become a commercial product, Nitratrete.
A programme of market research and innovation followed the opening of the water treatment facility and customers for the waste stream were identified.
Since then, Clitheroe has worked closely with its customers to improve the quality and consistency of the product and to develop other applications.
Significant financial benefits have been achieved by avoiding disposal costs of unsold byproduct and generating revenue from sales.
The environmental benefits are equally clear.
By 2017, the target is to commercialise 90% of the sodium nitrate produced at Clitheroe.
This is a powerful example of a win-win for sustainability reducing waste and increasing profit.
32 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Environmental Technologies continued Process Technologies continued to Innovation in Action benefit from energy security concerns in China which are driving projects to monetise coal reserves in the country.
This has supported sales of our catalysts for producing both chemicals and substitute natural gas SNG from coal.
In other parts of the world, particularly the USA, the extraction of shale gas has contributed to lower gas prices compared with those of oil.
This provides new opportunities for our syngas catalysts.
The business saw continued success in the development of catalysts for gas to liquids GTL applications.
It signed a ten year agreement with CompactGTL to develop, manufacture and supply catalysts for its modular GTL commercial scale An Insight on the Inside plants which can be used for remote The manufacture of catalysts frequently involves the processing, blending and mixing oilfields in onshore and offshore locations of fluids or slurries with complex flow behaviours or rheologies.
Achieving a well to convert gas into sulphur free liquid fuels.
mixed combination of materials in our catalyst manufacturing processes is critical to DPT had an excellent year, building ensuring final product quality and optimum catalytic performance in our customers on its strong performance in 2010 11. applications.
Fundamental research at the laboratory scale, using representative This higher margin business delivered sales fluids and advanced experimental techniques, has been used to build our knowledge of 94 million, which were 42% ahead of of the types of non-ideal mixing that can occur.
prior year, and secured licence and We have also used a technique called electrical resistance tomography ERT on engineering contracts for 14 new plants our manufacturing plants to compare different mixing system designs.
ERT provides across its portfolio of technologies.
us with a picture of how well the contents of our reaction vessels are mixing.
We Increased demand for petrochemicals in have used the technique to identify best mixing system designs and define best China continued to drive growth in DPT practice which has been implemented on new manufacturing plants and retrofitted to and the business won contracts for ten our existing operations.
Through ERT we are gaining an invaluable insight into what is plants there, including two SNG plants, happening inside our vessels which enables us to optimise our mixing systems and four methanol plants and two oxo alcohols thus ensure the highest catalyst performance for our customers.
Outside of China, DPT also secured licences for speciality chemicals plants in Malaysia and in the Netherlands, and oxo alcohols plants in France and Saudi Arabia.
Process Technologies Sales Davy Process Technology In recent years a significant amount of Projects Awarded chemical manufacturing capacity has been installed, especially in China, and this has Methanol Oxo alcohols SNG Butanediol Other benefited DPT.
We expect that the number 15 of new plants and hence licences available to DPT will be maintained in 2012 13 but is Tracerco likely to reduce thereafter.
Despite this, the 12 13% outlook for DPT remains positive as global drivers, such as increasing wealth in 9 emerging markets and energy security, support demand for its technologies.
6 DPT Furthermore, the business continues to AMOG 23% invest in the research, development and 64% 3 commercialisation of new process technologies, including those which utilise 0 sustainable feedstocks, to maintain its 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 leading global position.
This year saw DPT commercialise three new technologies which now are under construction, including a process which converts waste oils and fats into second generation biofuels... Fuel cell catalyst testing at the Johnson Matthey Development of new process catalysts at our Billingham, Technology Centre in Sonning, UK.
Tracerco recovered well after difficult Innovation in Action trading conditions in 2010 11.
Its sales in 2011 12 were 22% ahead of prior year as the business benefited from renewed activity in global oil and gas markets supported by the high oil price.
This has encouraged oil and gas companies to exploit more difficult to recover resources and has boosted demand for Tracercos specialist technologies.
Fuel Cells Our Fuel Cells business was adversely affected by a slowdown in demand for stationary combined heat and power units this year as our customers delayed their product deployment programmes.
The development of fuel cell technology Looking Inside a Fuel Cell for transport applications, especially cars, Collaborating with other leading players has always been an important element of continues.
Advances in both vehicle our R&D programmes, giving us the opportunity to work with the worlds smartest development and hydrogen fuelling scientists and the very latest technology and equipment.
In an extension to our infrastructure around the world remain on collaborations, Johnson Matthey has established a deeper partnership with track for initial market introduction of fuel Cambridge University in the UK, sponsoring its chemical engineering activities, cell powered vehicles within around five providing financial support and seconding two Johnson Matthey scientists to work years.
Components for automotive at the university.
applications remain an important For the last four years the company has been closely involved with research opportunity for Johnson Matthey and we and teaching activities at the Department of Chemical Engineering and have continued to increase our investment Biotechnology at Cambridge University.
Current research activities include magnetic in R&D for automotive applications during resonance imaging of catalysts and reactions, developing spectroscopy and the year.
microscopy techniques to study materials and catalysts, and research into fuel cells As a result of slower demand and our through the use of microfluidic devices.
increased R&D expenditure, the net expense A microfluidic device is so called because it can be built at a small scale to of our Fuel Cells business increased by mimic a larger real life system, such as a fuel cell: this allows precise control of 4.3 million to 9.2 million this year.
flows within the device and enables the device to be used in conjunction with Global drivers, particularly those analytical equipment, which gives us an insight into what is actually going on inside relating to environmental and energy the device.
In our work with Cambridge University we are looking at fuel cell devices security issues, continue to support for simultaneous production of chemicals and power generation, known as interest in fuel cell technology for transport cogeneration, and, through the use of these techniques, we are gaining new and for heat and power applications in knowledge of the detailed chemical workings of a fuel cell.
Furthermore, our strong relationships with system developers and our investment in manufacturing infrastructure position us well in the developing fuel cell market where high performance platinum group metal catalysts and technology are key.
34 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Precious Metal Products Adding Key Statistics value to Capital expenditure 31.6 million Capex depreciation 1.4 precious Average invested capital 341 million metals Employees 2,894 Year to 31st March % at 2012 2011 % constant million million change rates Revenue 9,841 8,270 19 20 Sales excluding precious metals sales 582 541 8 8 Underlying operating profit 200.8 172.9 16 16 Return on sales 34.5% 31.9% Return on invested capital ROIC 58.9% 55.9% Sales Sales by Destination Rest of World 9% Manufacturing Services Europe Catalysts and Chemicals Rest of Asia 34% 35% 30% 12% China 8% Manufacturing Colour Technologies Manufacturing 15% North America Noble Metals 36% 21% Divisional Sales Divisional Underlying Operating Profit million million 582 250 600 541 200.8 447 454 200 172.9 450 143.0 150 116.7 300 100 150 50 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Excluding inter-segment sales.
Precious Metal Products sales increased 35 by 8% supported by good demand across all of its businesses.
Through leveraging its deep understanding of catalysis, pgm chemistry, materials science and manufacturing, Precious Metal Products can apply expertise in the Strategy fundamentals of chemistry, materials and process design to ensure it continues to develop leading edge products and manufacturing routes.
Leverage our deep understanding of: The division is focused on providing customer solutions through investment in Catalysis and pgm chemistry R&D.
R&D is at the heart of all Johnson Mattheys activities and whilst the division Materials science and manufacturing contains a mix of newer and more mature businesses, constant innovation means that a high proportion of its portfolio consists of products developed within the Provide customer solutions last decade.
through investment in R&D Offering first class services to external and internal customers is an important element of the strategy.
The division serves external customers and also provides vital services to other Johnson Matthey businesses either through the provision of Offer first class services to our external and internal precious metals or through refining and recycling spent process or customer customers material.
Focusing on the quality and scope of the services it offers is key to maintaining a competitive position.
The division aims to deliver superior growth by targeting higher technology areas Deliver superior growth where its expertise in adding value to precious metals can generate growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
Refining Many of Noble Metals products have Description of the Business Johnson Matthey is a leader in the a positive impact on our health or on the Precious Metal Products Division PMPD recycling and refining of precious metals.
It manufactures components adds value to precious metals.
Its wide Our refining and recycling operations used in medical devices which are used ranging activities comprise two main areas: provide a vital service to ensure these in life saving surgery for maintaining Services businesses and Manufacturing valuable natural resources are recycled and cardiovascular health.
reused as efficiently and sustainably as include catalyst systems which are used in possible.
nitric acid manufacturing plants to abate Services Businesses Our Pgm Refining and Recycling nitrous oxide N O, a highly potent 2 The activities of our Services businesses business recovers pgms from spent greenhouse gas.
To date, reductions comprise the marketing, distribution, catalysts and other secondary materials equivalent to over 35 million tonnes of refining and recycling of platinum group and refines primary pgms from global carbon dioxide have been achieved using metals pgms and the refining of gold and mining operations.
It has facilities in the UK these systems.
As well as serving their external and USA.
customers around the globe, the Services Our Gold and Silver refining business Colour Technologies businesses also provide a critical service to comprises our gold and silver refining and Headquartered in the Netherlands, our businesses in the Johnson Matthey group bullion manufacturing operations.
The Colour Technologies business manufactures and their customers.
Around 70% of business serves the worlds mining high technology functional coatings which Johnson Mattheys products and businesses industries and recycles secondary scrap include black obscuration enamels and involve pgms and so the sourcing and material.
Its operations are located in the silver conductive materials for automotive recycling of them is critical to the continuity USA and Canada.
It also makes colours, enamels and and profitability of the group.
Our Services decorative precious metal products for businesses comprise two areas: Manufacturing Businesses other glass applications such as bottles The activities of the Manufacturing and architectural glass as well as for Platinum Marketing and Distribution businesses include the fabrication of tableware and other ceramic applications.
This includes our worldwide platinum products using precious metals and related Manufacturing takes place in the marketing and distribution activities.
materials, pgm and base metal catalysts Netherlands, USA and South Korea.
Marketing is headquartered in Royston, UK and pgm chemicals.
There are three with support facilities in Philadelphia, USA Manufacturing businesses: Catalysts and Chemicals and Hong Kong.
We are the worlds Catalysts and Chemicals manufactures leading distributor of pgms and the sole Noble Metals precious and base metal catalysts which marketing agent for Anglo American Noble Metals produces a wide range of are used to enhance the operating Platinum, the worlds largest producer of precious metal and other fabricated efficiency of chemical and pharmaceutical platinum.
products for industrial and medical manufacturing processes.
It also applications and Johnson Matthey is the manufactures precious metal chemicals for market leader in pgm fabricated products a wide range of applications.
The business for industrial applications.
Its manufacturing has manufacturing operations in the UK, operations are based in the UK and USA.
USA, Germany, India and China.
36 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Precious Metal Products continued Supply of Platinum Gross Demand for Platinum Supply of Palladium Gross Demand for Palladium 2007-2011 2007-2011 2007-2011 2007-2011 million oz million oz million oz million oz South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial Investment South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Electronics Jewellery Other 9 9 10 7 8 8 6 8 7 7 5 6 6 6 4 5 5 4 4 3 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Recycling of scrapped autocatalysts, Recycling of scrapped autocatalysts, electronics and jewellery contributed electronics and jewellery contributed 1.41 million oz in 2009, 1.83 million oz 1.43 million oz in 2009, 1.85 million oz in 2010 and 2.05 million oz in 2011. in 2010 and 2.35 million oz in 2011. modestly.
Strong demand in the heavy The balance of the platinum market Performance in 2011 12 duty diesel sector was offset by lower is expected to be similar in 2012, with Precious Metal Products Divisions revenue demand from the light duty diesel sector, both supply and demand expected to be increased by 19% to 9,841 million.
Its due to increased use of palladium, and somewhat lower than in 2011.
Investment sales were 8% up at 582 million, from Japanese car makers in the aftermath sentiment is likely to continue to have the supported by good demand across all of of the March 2011 earthquake.
Demand determining influence on the platinum price.
Underlying operating profit trends in other sectors were broadly The palladium market moved into was 16% ahead at 200.8 million with positive with industrial applications surplus in 2011 with growth in industrial good profit growth in all of the divisions enjoying a cyclical upturn.
Supply demand outweighed by further Russian businesses.
increased due to releases of metal from stock sales and net liquidation in the in process and refined inventories as physically backed Exchange Traded Fund Services Businesses underlying mine production in South Africa ETF investment market.
The demand side Sales in the divisions Services businesses, declined.
After being close to balance in was a mixed picture with autocatalyst which represent 34% of PMPDs sales, 2010, the platinum market moved into demand reaching a new high but other grew by 10% to 199 million.
Profit grew surplus in 2011. industrial demand showing only moderate strongly in the year due to continued good The price of platinum reflected these growth.
Supplies of newly mined palladium demand for precious metal refining weaker fundamentals.
After reaching a were flat but there was a sharp increase in services and slightly higher average high point of $1,911 oz in August, the metal recovered from autocatalyst recycling.
price retreated for the remainder of the Having opened the year at $770 oz, calendar year, caught up in the general the palladium price suffered in the face of liquidation across the commodity sector, weak fundamentals.
After reaching a year Platinum Marketing and Distribution to end the year below $1,400 oz.
Platinum high of $845 oz in June, palladium had Global demand for platinum increased by averaged $1,670 oz for the financial year, retreated to $570 oz by October as ETF 2% in the calendar year 2011.
Demand virtually unchanged on 2010 11. liquidation reached a peak.
The price from the autocatalyst sector grew only recovered slowly in the rest of the year to average $710 oz, up 15% on the average for 2010 11.
Platinum and Palladium Prices Rhodium Price US$ oz US$ oz 2,000 4,000 1,500 3,000 1,000 2,000 500 1,000 0 0 March 2010 March 2011 March 2012 March 2010 March 2011 March 2012 Platinum Palladium 37 Case Study Process Improvements in Refining Bring Reward Activities at Johnson Mattheys Royston site in the UK include the refining of platinum group metals and a project on one of the operations core purification steps has delivered swift improvements, targeting four of the Sustainability 2017 goals.
Whilst the business technology for this core purification step is well established, a project and cross functional team were set up to improve the process and make the operation more sustainable.
The resulting benefits were significantly reduced raw material usage, effluent generation and carbon emissions, as well as significant cost savings.
The project combined structured problem solving with innovation and further improvements are planned.
The sustainability dividend is closely entwined with efficiency gains and financial benefits, and these results make a significant contribution to Johnson Mattheys vision for a sustainable business.
With significantly lower shipments of Refining Both of our gold and silver refineries Russian state stock anticipated in 2012 Our Refining businesses had another had a strong year.
Throughputs were up by and a modest increase in demand, the strong year, led by our gold and silver 13% for gold and 5% for silver against a palladium market is expected to swing refineries.
In our Pgm Refining business back drop of record levels in the prior year.
This will be supportive of sales were 1% up on 2010 11.
Volumes Our refinery in Salt Lake City, USA a rising price trend although external were strong in the first half but there was benefited from several new mines reaching economic factors, particularly in emerging some slowing of demand in the second optimal output during the year.
In 2011 12 markets, are expected to have a significant following the fall in pgm prices during gold and silver prices averaged $1,661 oz influence.
The business continued to and $36 oz, up 28% and 50% respectively The rhodium market was once again benefit from its key strategic position in on those in 2010 11.
The second half saw oversupplied in 2011 as modest growth in the refining of pgms from end of life a slowdown in demand for recycling as the demand was outpaced by a rise in supplies autocatalyst scrap, with volumes 20% up economy started to recover in the US.
and higher volumes of metal recovered on the strong growth seen in the prior year.
However, demand for investment products from scrap autocatalysts.
With a growing Intakes of the more difficult to refine such as gold and silver bars were at a surplus, the price found little support, insoluble pgms, rhodium, ruthenium and record high, particularly in China.
falling $1,000 oz to close the financial year iridium, also continued to be strong, at $1,400 oz.
The average price of benefiting from further development of the $1,734 oz was down 28% on 2010 11. business world leading pgm chemistry The rhodium market is expected to remain and refining capabilities in this area.
in surplus in 2012, suggesting limited Operational improvements and continued upside potential in the price.
focus on capacity management resulted in a reduction of metal tied up in refining processes and the business continues to work on long term projects to add value for its customers.
Gold and Silver Prices Pgm Refining Throughput by gold US$ oz silver US$ oz Market Sector 2,000 50 Others 8% Glass nitric 1,750 40 8% Autocatalyst scrap Pharmaceuticals 40% 1,500 30 chemicals 8% Refiners 1,250 20 10% Johnson Matthey Mines 1,000 10 11% March 2010 March 2011 March 2012 15% Gold Silver 38 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Precious Metal Products continued Manufacturing Businesses during the year and, despite recent falls fine hole cutting equipment at its San Sales in our Manufacturing businesses, in the market price for carbon, sales Diego, USA operation to support growing which represent 66% of PMPDs sales, continued to grow.
Further growth demand for micromachined parts.
It also were up 6% to 383 million.
Operating opportunities will depend upon the expanded its facility in San Jose, USA to profit was well up on prior year.
legislative environment as developed service increased demand for nitinol tubing countries tackle the threat of climate which is used in nitinol stents to treat change.
The business is well placed to peripheral vascular disease.
Following last years strong recovery, Noble The business has also developed a Metals sales grew 4% to 125 million.
Colour Technologies range of high technology pgm alloys used However, operating profit was well ahead Colour Technologies sales were 6% up in manufacturing spark plugs designed to of last year with a trend towards higher on last year at 87 million and operating meet the automotive industrys demand for added value products for the automotive profit grew ahead of sales.
The year saw improved performance and fuel efficiency.
and medical device sectors and improved good growth in sales of obscuration During the year the business has invested market share following the success of enamels for the automotive glass industry, in increased production capacity to serve several new product introductions.
particularly in China and the Americas, this growing market.
Sales of industrial products, which supported by the introduction of innovative Sales of medical components 30% of represent 70% of Noble Metals sales, new products.
High precious metal prices Noble Metals sales were 6% up on last grew by 4% to 88 million.
The business continued to adversely impact demand for year at 37 million driven by record has developed a range of new higher decorative precious metal products but demand for products used primarily in the performance pgm alloy catalysts used in had little impact on functional applications cardiovascular markets.
This has enabled us of these materials, for example in the healthcare initiatives and an ageing to increase our market share and aerospace industry.
The year also saw a population in the US are resulting in a outperform market growth.
strong increase in sales of conductive silver higher number of medical procedures.
Carbon trading opportunities continue pastes to the automotive glass industry This, together with increasing wealth in to be the main driver for the use of N O resulting from a combination of improved 2 China, India and Southeast Asia, is driving abatement systems in the nitric acid products, successful collaboration with demand for our products.
During the year production industry.
Noble Metals continued customers and market growth.
the business invested in high technology to see good demand for these products Case Study Interactive Training Promotes Sustainability in Downingtown Johnson Mattheys Colour Technologies operations in Downingtown, US, set up a sustainability training programme for all of its employees.
The programme offered interactive learning, practical exercises and insights into the fundamentals of sustainability, achieving 100% participation among employees.
The training schedule kicked off with an overview session designed to increase awareness and encourage engagement.
In the second session, employees explored the use of streamlined life cycle assessment tools on a real life example of relevance to the business.
Other parts of the training covered Johnson Mattheys Sustainability Intranet, where employees were shown how to contribute to it, and use of a carbon calculator tool to enable staff to think about their own carbon footprint.
The outcome is a workforce with greater understanding and renewed enthusiasm.
Developing employee awareness and encouraging use of tools such as the streamlined life cycle assessment and the Sustainability Intranet play an effective part in strengthening involvement in the companys sustainability agenda.
39 Catalysts and Chemicals Innovation in Action Catalysts and Chemicals sales grew by 8% to 171 million.
Demand for our catalysts was good, supported by new product launches for solvent manufacturing and growth in sales of newly developed pgm catalysts for the petrochemical market.
The business also saw good growth in sales of catalysts for the production of oleochemicals, particularly in Asia, and in sales of platinum coated discs used in contact lens disinfecting systems.
During the year the business commissioned its new pgm catalyst plant in Shanghai, China mainly to service customers in the pharmaceutical and fine chemical sectors.
Sales of chemical products, which include pgm salts used in the manufacture of autocatalysts, were down on prior year mainly due to the impact, particularly in the first half, of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami on demand from Japanese automakers.
The year saw the introduction Sustainable Catalysts to Replace Mercury of ItsFresh!
sheets, which contain our The development of more sustainable products is a key component of Johnson e ethylene remover, to major UK Mattheys Sustainability 2017 Vision.
Our scientists are not only working on the supermarkets to extend the shelf life of creation of new solutions for new markets, but also on developing more sustainable fruit.
Whilst current sales are relatively alternatives for existing applications.
modest, we are optimistic that our sales Johnson Matthey, together with Jacobs Engineering, has developed a new will exceed 10 million per annum within product to replace a mercury based catalyst for making vinyl chloride monomer the next few years.
VCM, a chemical used in the manufacture of PVC.
Current demand for this catalyst, which is used mainly in China, is around 10,000 tonnes per annum.
Our new catalyst is an innovative supported precious metal catalyst.
Initial research to create a mercury free catalyst formulation began at the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre in Sonning, UK in 2006.
Once a successful catalyst had been identified, its manufacture was scaled up at the companys Catalysts and Chemicals facility in Royston, UK.
The catalyst is now in evaluation trials in a VCM pilot plant in China and construction of a full scale demonstration VCM plant is underway.
Johnson Mattheys expertise in materials characterisation has played a key role at every stage in the new catalysts development.
It has enabled us to determine the exact distribution and chemical form of precious metals within the catalyst at the atomic scale.
This information has provided us with an understanding of the catalysts performance and provides us with a solid basis for further catalyst development and future customer support.
40 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Fine Chemicals Providing Key Statistics products that Capital expenditure 15.8 million Capex depreciation 0.9 ultimately Average invested capital 418 million enhance Employees 1,090 quality of life Year to 31st March % at 2012 2011 % constant million million change rates Revenue 292 255 15 16 Sales excluding precious metals sales 285 245 16 17 Underlying operating profit 69.7 56.2 24 26 Return on sales 24.5% 22.9% Return on invested capital ROIC 16.7% 13.7% Sales by Destination Sales Rest Rest of of Asia World 5% 2% Research Chemicals China Europe 28% 3% 41% API Manufacturing North America 72% 49% Divisional Sales Divisional Underlying Operating Profit million million 285 69.7 75 300 245 56.2 55.8 221 215 49.5 50 200 25 100 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Excluding inter-segment sales.
Fine Chemicals products help relieve pain, treat 41 cancer and alleviate other medical conditions.
Fine Chemicals is focused on delivering niche products to the generic pharmaceutical S t r ategy market where it can apply its expertise to benefit from the trend towards the use of generic pharmaceuticals.
Furthermore, with commercial advantages from being first to market with generic APIs, the division is supported by its strengths in research, Deliver niche products to development and manufacturing.
the generic pharmaceutical market Through leveraging synergies between research, development and manufacturing across the division, Fine Chemicals can maintain a pipeline of new products for Leverage synergies between customers of both its API Manufacturing and Research Chemicals businesses.
research, development and manufacturing Increasing market share of established products where the division has a strong position, such as opiate based APIs, is an important element of the strategy.
The division is optimising its global manufacturing capacity to enable it to benefit from Increase market share of opportunities to strengthen its position in both existing and developing markets.
established products The division aims to deliver superior growth in markets that are driven by global trends towards the increased use of pharmaceutical products.
Its strong position in niche areas Deliver superior growth and its research and manufacturing infrastructure position it well for growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
industries and provide contract research Research Chemicals Description of the Business services to the pharmaceutical industry.
The Research Chemicals business is a Fine Chemicals Division supplies active Macfarlan Smith, based in Edinburgh, UK globally integrated supplier of speciality pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, fine is the worlds leading manufacturer of inorganic and organic chemicals and chemicals and other speciality chemicals opiate alkaloids which are used for pain biochemicals.
The business supplies to a wide range of chemical and management and other pharmaceutical chemicals into both industry and research pharmaceutical industry customers and applications.
Our US based institutions in small scale research research institutes globally.
Its products Pharmaceutical Materials and Services quantities, via its catalogue, and bulk scale help relieve pain, treat cancer and alleviate business specialises in the manufacture of shipments.
Around 50% of its sales are other medical conditions, thus improving APIs for controlled drugs and for platinum to pharmaceutical companies.
It operates the quality of life for many people around based anticancer treatments.
It also under the Alfa Aesar brand name and is the world.
It comprises two areas: provides a full range of commercial scale based in the UK, USA, Germany, China manufacturing services for APIs to both and India.
The operations in the UK and API Manufacturing generic and branded pharmaceutical China have manufacturing capability Our API Manufacturing businesses supply companies.
servicing the catalogue and the needs of APIs and intermediate products for the external bulk scale customers and provide pharmaceutical and fine chemical custom synthesis of key pharmaceutical intermediates for both external and internal customers.
Case Study Unlocking a Production Bottleneck to Save Money and Resources Improving the efficiency of our processes is an essential part of our sustainability strategy to save resources.
In Johnson Mattheys Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business an exercise to streamline operations at the West Deptford site in the US led to significant process improvement.
Employees from all functions were involved with Engineering, Production and Research providing the technical data, Production and Automation simplifying the programming and Commercial, Quality and Operations keeping external customers informed.
The project makes an important contribution to Sustainability 2017 and its goal of halving key resources per unit of output.
The key resources here, which are production equipment time and energy use, have been more than halved.
Furthermore, reduced manufacturing costs and increased overall production also contribute to the sustainability goal of doubling our underlying earnings per share.
42 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Fine Chemicals continued Pharmaceutical Materials and The results of our API Manufacturing Performance in 2011 12 Services performed very well this year, businesses also benefited from revenue Fine Chemicals Division exceeded our benefiting from the additional capacity from Endo, the US based healthcare expectations in 2011 12 with very strong afforded by the Riverside facility and some company, relating to an oxymorphone growth in its API Manufacturing businesses acquired legacy business.
and continued good growth in Research which more than doubles our manufacturing Chemicals.
Revenue in the year increased capacity in North America, has been Research Chemicals by 15% to 292 million.
Sales were 16% successfully integrated with the business Research Chemicals performed well in ahead at 285 million and operating profit other US operations.
This purpose built 2011 12 benefiting from an increase in was 24% higher at 69.7 million boosted facility is enabling us to manufacture market share and the continued introduction by increased demand.
In our North products more efficiently, allowing us to of new products.
Sales were 10% ahead American API manufacturing operations capitalise on new opportunities to grow of prior year at 79 million with good we are beginning to realise the benefits of sales and increase our market share, growth across North America, Europe and the acquisition of the Riverside facility in particularly in the supply of opiates used Asia.
Operating profit grew ahead of sales.
Conshohocken, USA in November 2010. in pain management and amphetamines Sales growth in Asia was particularly The divisions return on sales also used in attention deficit hyperactivity strong, up 24% on prior year, supported improved, up 1.6% to 24.5%.
During the year we by an increase in R&D spend by have focused on transferring technology to pharmaceutical companies in the region.
API Manufacturing Businesses Riverside to optimise our API production in The business has expanded its range this The divisions API Manufacturing North America.
Product transfer from year, adding 4,500 new products, and its businesses, which represent 72% of Fine Macfarlan Smith to Riverside is now also rate of new product introduction continues Chemicals sales, had a very good year underway as the division works to optimise to increase.
Our manufacturing capability, with sales up 18% to 206 million and its API production globally.
together with the strong synthetic stronger growth in operating profit.
The business also benefited from chemistry expertise in Research Chemicals The businesses continued to benefit strong sales of the generic version of and more widely across Fine Chemicals from the trend towards the use of generic ADDERALL XR, which is used in the Division, position the business well to APIs by the healthcare industry.
Sales at treatment of ADHD, and from the launch of further increase its portfolio of products.
Macfarlan Smith grew steadily this year, a niche, high value ophthalmic drug.
In July 2012 the business launched particularly due to higher demand for its Drawing on its manufacturing and contract a new biochemical product catalogue in bulk opiate based products, such as research expertise and working in North America, targeting the life science codeine which is used in pain management.
collaboration with generic pharmaceutical R&D market.
This market offers Increased stability in narcotic raw material companies, the business has developed opportunities outside North America and supplies allowed the business to recover several other niche products that have as a result the business plans to roll out its market share in bulk opiates outside North been filed with the US Food and Drug biochemical range to other regions in the America.
The business also saw an Administration and which should support coming year, supported by its global sales improvement in operational efficiency as a steady stream of new products over the and manufacturing infrastructure.
a result of a restructuring programme next few years.
completed in the first half of the year.
Case Study Bitrex Goes Social Bitrex is the worlds bitterest substance.
Discovered over 50 years ago by scientists at Macfarlan Smith, it is added to household and garden products to prevent children swallowing them by accident.
Its bitter, unpleasant taste means that children will spit it out at once.
Bitrex is not a replacement for the safe storage of dangerous household, garden and garage substances but where Bitrex comes into its own is at moments of parental inattention.
When the phone rings before the groceries are packed safely away or when another child needs some attention in the middle of spring cleaning, for example.
Now Johnson Mattheys Bitrex team is adding a new approach to raising awareness of Bitrex among consumers.
The team has decided to use social media to reach out to parents around the world.
They have produced a 60 second video which captures the uncanny skills that babies and toddlers have for spitting out a well-aimed jet of half-chewed food an experience familiar to every parent, grandparent and carer!
It concludes that spitting out is what babies and toddlers do best and Bitrex is the stuff to ensure that if anything dangerous does get into their mouths, they will go right ahead and spit it out.
The video can be viewed on the Bitrex consumer webpage at www.
