Remuneration report Our strength is in our people and ensuring we can retain and motivate remains at the heart of the committees work.
Richard Mully Remuneration committee Chairmans summary statement Introduction Other important features of the Aberdeen policy have been This is my first report as chairman of the remuneration retained in the proposed policy, to provide a straightforward committee having taken on the role in October 2016.
I would remuneration policy aligned to shareholder interests over the like to thank my predecessor Simon Troughton, who chaired long term.
These include: the committee for over 5 years, for his contribution and Deferral of 75% of variable pay, vesting over a 5-year period.
leadership of the committee throughout this time as well as A shareholding requirement of 300% of base salary.
A cap on the total variable pay pool for the Group, defined as Directors' remuneration report a percentage of pre-variable pay operating profit.
This is in This year's report is split into two sections: addition to the new cap on individual award levels referred Annual report on remuneration to above.
The proposed directors' remuneration policy Rather than delay the introduction of the changes referred to above until 2017, the committee has also taken the opportunity The annual report on remuneration explains how the existing to apply the proposed individual caps and disclosure practices to policy has been applied during the year and, together with the remuneration for 2016.
Under the existing policy, individual this introductory statement, will be subject to an advisory pay is uncapped, so the introduction of caps is a voluntary shareholder vote at the AGM.
change made by the committee for 2016, rather than being Changes to remuneration policy required under the current policy.
The current directors remuneration policy was approved in January 2014.
The Group is therefore required to submit its Pay regulation policy for the next triennial binding vote at our upcoming AGM At the time of finalising this letter, no further guidance had been in 2017.
In anticipation of this, the remuneration committee provided by the European Commission on the application of has undertaken a comprehensive review of the policy, and proportionality to tier 3 firms under the Capital Requirements has proposed important changes, which are set out below.
Directive and Regulation, and the UKs decision to leave the These proposed changes take account of the feedback we have European Union has added further complexity to the pay received from shareholders over the period since the last policy regulation landscape.
Should Aberdeen become subject to vote.
The changes are: amended regulatory requirements in the future either as a result of changes to CRD IV or other regulatory directives such The introduction of individual caps on variable pay awards, as UCITS V there may be a need for changes to our policy, defined as a multiple of fixed pay.
The committee has set a as with other firms in our sector.
If changes are required, maximum amount of cash variable pay and a maximum the committee will consult with major shareholders on how it amount of variable pay in deferred shares.
proposes to implement any new requirements.
Use of both annual and trailing key performance indicators in Review of base salaries determining variable pay awards.
Taking account of the financial performance in 2016, Retrospective disclosure, in each year's remuneration report, the committee has determined that, other than by exception, of the weightings and performance targets for each of the key salaries for employees earning over 75,000 will be frozen performance indicators used in determining variable pay.
This freeze applies to all executive directors.
68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Variable remuneration for 2016 As is more fully covered in other sections of the annual report, 2016 has been a challenging year, both for Aberdeen and for the asset management sector generally, and this is reflected in the reduced profit reported for the year.
While investment performance in our equities strategies has recovered strongly and other asset classes have also delivered consistent performance, the Board has remained conscious of the effect of net AuM outflows.
Management has focused on cost control and maintaining the Groups operating margin, whilst continuing our emphasis on conduct and risk management.
The level of dividend paid to shareholders has been maintained and remains covered.
Nevertheless, incentive payments are 40% lower than that paid in 2015.
As you can see from the graph on page 76, TSR has significantly outperformed both the FTSE All Share by 171% and the FTSE All Share Financial Services by 123% indices over the past 8 years.
The aggregate variable pay pool in any year continues to typically be no higher than 25% of pre-variable pay operating profit: for 2016 awards, the aggregate pool has been set at approximately 23%, compared to 20% in 2015.
I welcome any comments from investors and will be available to answer any questions you may have at the AGM.
Richard Mully Chairman of the Remuneration Committee aberdeen-asset.
com 69 Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
The Annual Report on Remuneration together with the Chairman's introductory statement, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Where indicated, information has been audited as required under the regulations.
Directors' remuneration as a single figure audited information The remuneration of the directors for 2015 and 2016 was as follows: Salary Taxable Variable & fees benefits pay Pension Total Year to 30 September 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Martin Gilbert 520 2 2,285 2,807 Andrew Laing 364 2 450 64 880 Rod MacRae 364 2 345 64 775 Bill Rattray 364 2 450 64 880 Anne Richards 246 1 43 290 Hugh Young 395 207 2,040 2,642 Total 2,253 216 5,570 235 8,274 Non-executive directors Simon Troughton 133 133 Roger Cornick 325 325 Julie Chakraverty 121 121 Gerhard Fusenig 38 38 Richard Mully 123 123 Jim Pettigrew 66 66 Val Rahmani 91 91 Jutta af Rosenborg 104 104 1,001 1,001 Total 3,254 216 5,570 235 9,275 Year to 30 September 2015 Executive directors Martin Gilbert 513 2 3,825 4,340 Andrew Laing 359 2 750 63 1,174 Rod MacRae 359 2 575 63 999 Bill Rattray 359 2 750 63 1,174 Anne Richards 359 2 1,487 63 1,911 Hugh Young 365 192 3,400 3,957 2,314 202 10,787 252 13,555 Non-executive directors Roger Cornick 325 325 Julie Chakraverty 114 114 Richard Mully 121 121 Jim Pettigrew 113 113 Val Rahmani 61 61 Jutta af Rosenborg 91 91 Simon Troughton 133 133 958 958 Total 3,272 202 10,787 252 14,513 70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Annual variable pay for the year to 30 September 2016 Variable pay awards for the year under review were based on the following key performance indicators, weightings and targets.
The performance outcomes and bonus result for each KPI as a percentage of maximum bonus are also shown.
Stretch Result % of Threshold Target 100% of max variable FY2016 performance metrics Weighting 25% of max 50% of max max Actual x weighting Long-term quantitative Growth in underlying EPS 10% 6% 9% 12% -14% 0.0% 3 year CAGR Average ROCE 3 year 10% 16% 20% 22% 19.6% 4.8% Investment performance 20% 40% 60% 80% 46.9% 6.7% Annual quantitative Underlying PBT 15% 310.4m 388.0m 465.6m 352.7m 5.8% Operating margin 15% 31.5% 35% 38.5% 32.6% 4.9% Total 22.2% Annual non-financial strategic 12.5% 20% Remuneration committee assessment see below Annual personal performance 6% - 9% 10% Remuneration committee assessment see below Investment performance is measured by reference to the aggregation of performance data of mandates and funds against the relevant client-specific benchmarks, and calculating the average, weighted by AuM.
The metric used for remuneration purposes is a blend of 3-year 50% and 5-year 50% relative performance.
Non-financial strategic performance Rating Remuneration Key out of 5 Key performance committee's indicators Key points in 2015 - 16 financial year assessment Above target 4-5 Qualitative: Around target 2-3 More structured progress and linked with 1.5 Between threshold and target 1-2 Client retention improving investment performance Below threshold 0 Distribution Continuing to expand global distribution 3 Talent management Senior leadership and emerging talent 5 programmes fully operational, strong ongoing progress in succession planning Risk management, Ongoing Group-wide focus on all aspects 3 compliance and conduct of risk, compliance and conduct Total 12.5% Personal performance Rating Weighted Key out of 10 Maximum Actual Key performance in 2015-16 financial year Significantly exceeds 9-10 Martin Gilbert 10% 9% Excellent leadership of the Group and its day to expectation day management.
Exceeds expectation 7-8 Andrew Laing 10% 8% Delivered budget and cost controls in the year.
Satisfactory oversight of EMEA, HR and CR.
Meets expectation 5-6 Rod MacRae 10% 6% Satisfactory management of the Risk division and Below expectation 0-4 Regulatory relationships.
Bill Rattray 10% 7% Continuing satisfactory management of the Finance division and external shareholder relations.
Oversight of the Groups regulatory capital management requirements.
Hugh Young 10% 8% Successfully increased role to cover oversight of all the Investment divisions as well as the Asia Region.
com 71 Remuneration report continued 2016 variable pay For the first time, in 2016 the committee has applied individual caps on variable pay, expressed as a multiple of fixed pay.
The table below shows the caps that were applied to each executive director: Maximum cash variable pay Maximum variable pay in deferred shares 1 1 multiple of fixed pay multiple of fixed pay Martin Gilbert 2.5x 7.5x Hugh Young 2.5x 7.5x Andrew Laing 0.75x 2.25x Bill Rattray 0.75x 2.25x Rod MacRae 0.625x 1.875x 1 Fixed pay for 2016 includes base salary and benefits, but excludes pension contributions.
The committee will remain consistent in applying performance metrics so that the maximum are only awarded when performance is exceptional and merited.
The committee has used its discretion to adjust downwards certain of the variable pay awards to ensure a reduction of 40% on that paid to each executive director in 2015.
The deferred shares vest to executives over five years in equal instalments, subject to continued employment with the Group.
Both the cash and deferred share elements of variable pay are subject to the malus and clawback policy.
Consideration of malus and clawback in 2016 A clawback principle applies to variable pay.
This enables the committee to seek to recoup variable pay in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of an individual.
It allows both the shares and cash portions of variable awards to be clawed back via the reduction or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred variable pay awards regardless of the year to which they relate.
As 75% of each year's variable pay award is deferred, there is an ongoing substantial amount of accumulated, unvested deferred remuneration that can be recouped.
The committee considered there were no events or circumstances that would have made it appropriate to recoup remuneration during 2016.
Payments for loss of office During the year Anne Richards left the Group.
She did not receive any payments for loss of office.
Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to continued service.
1 Awards stated as having vested have reached the earliest vesting dates set at the date of award: as such, the participant can exercise his or her right to require formal vesting at any time without restriction.
These interests represent ordinary shares which will vest on the dates stated.
com 73 Remuneration report continued Directors share interests audited information Details of the directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
As set out in the policy report, the executive directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to 300% of salary, including vested deferred variable pay shares.
74 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
No director currently holds their shares in such an arrangement.
Directors interests in share options audited information Date of Exercised Market price Status of grant 2015 in year on exercise 2016 Exercise Earliest Latest performance Rod MacRae 17.6.
08 116,666 116,666 325.00p 130.25p Jun 2013 Jun 2018 Achieved The market price of the Group's ordinary shares at 30 September 2016 was 326.3p and the range during the year was 209.3p to 355.9p.
There have been no other changes to the directors' holdings between 30 September 2016 and 27 November 2016.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, benefits and variable pay of the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to average for all employees of the Group.
Chief Executive Average for all employees Base salary 1.4% 3.4% Benefits No change No change Total variable pay -40% -21% Base salaries Executive directors' salaries were increased by 1.4% with effect from 1 January 2016, as shown in the table below.
They will continue at the same rates, with no changes to be made on the 1 January 2017 review date.
Salary as at 1 January 2016 Martin Gilbert 522,000 Andrew Laing 365,000 Rod MacRae 365,000 Bill Rattray 365,000 Anne Richards 365,000 Hugh Young S$728,000 The fee levels for non-executive directors will continue at the following levels, which were introduced on 1 October 2014.
Current fee Board Chairman 325,000 NED Base fee 65,000 Senior Independent Director 20,000 Committee chairman supplement audit, innovation, remuneration, risk 30,000 Committee membership supplement audit, innovation, remuneration, risk 13,000 Committee membership supplement nominations 5,000 aberdeen-asset.
com 75 Remuneration report continued Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Groups TSR performance with dividends re-invested against the performance of the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share General Financial Sector indices for the last 8 years.
As the chart indicates, Aberdeen's TSR of 273% was substantially above the two comparator indices.
% - Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share Financial Services Sector FTSE All Share Source: Thomson Reuters.
Total remuneration for Chief Executive The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the financial years shown in the TSR graph is shown in the following table.
The total remuneration figure includes the variable pay awarded, and LTIP awards which vested, based on performance in each year.
The LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum, for those years in which there was an LTIP vesting event.
As there was no cap on the maximum individual annual variable pay award prior to 2016, a percentage of maximum annual variable pay is not shown until this year.
2016 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2,807 Total remuneration '000 1,925 3,751 4,501 4,728 5,102 4,757 4,340 43.8% Variable pay award % N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A LTIP vesting % 0% 85% 100% 100% N A N A N A Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below shows the year-on-year movement in total remuneration of all employees, compared to the change in dividends paid and declared on ordinary shares.
CEO pay ratio The committee is mindful of the relationship between CEO pay and the pay of other directors and employees.
We have therefore chosen to adopt the recommendation to publish pay ratios in our report.
The table below shows the total pay for the CEO versus the average pay for employees and executives.
m Pay ratios Ratio CEO pay to average pay 422.9 404.3 2016 Population 2015 251.5 250.6 Group management board 3.4x 2.8x All employees 32.1x 20.6x Total employee pay Dividends 2015 2016 Over the 5 year period to 30 September 2016, the compound annual growth rate CAGR of total employee pay was 8.8% while the CAGR of ordinary dividend payments was 24.0%.
76 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The chart below shows the indexed movement in PBT, EPS, and dividends against the CEO total remuneration over the past five years.
Performance history and CEO remuneration % 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in underlying PBT Change in underlying EPS Change in dividends paid Total CEO remuneration The table below shows the history of performance of Aberdeen over the same period.
KPI % change v prior year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Change in underlying PBT 15.2% 38.8% 1.6% 0.3% -28.3% Change in underlying EPS 20.9% 43.6% -4.1% -3.5% -31.0% Operating margin 40.6% 45.4% 43.9% 42.7% 32.6% Conversion of operating profit to cash flow 119% 108% 111% 107% 111% Net new business 0.0bn -2.5bn -20.4bn -33.9bn -32.8bn ROCE 23.8% 29.6% 23.9% 21.1% 14.8% Implementation of remuneration policy in the year commencing 1 October 2016 The executive directors' salaries were reviewed by the committee and it was agreed that no changes will be made on the 1 January 2017 review date.
Subject to shareholder approval, the committee will apply the new policy during 2017.
Performance measures for the 2017 award will be underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, ROCE and investment performance and non-financial KPIs.
Meetings and attendance The committee is chaired by Richard Mully, who took over from Simon Troughton on 1 October 2016.
Richard is supported by two independent non-executive directors, Jutta af Rosenborg and Gerhard Fusenig, who joined the committee on the 5 October 2016.
During the year under review the committee was chaired by Simon Troughton and he was assisted by Richard Mully and Jutta af Rosenborg.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and held eight meetings during the year.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table: Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Richard Mully 8 8 Jutta af Rosenborg 8 8 Simon Troughton 8 8 The Chief Executive attends the meeting by invitation and assists the committee in its deliberations, except when his personal remuneration is discussed.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The committee also received advice from the Global Head of Human Resources.
The Group Secretary acts as Secretary to the committee.
"com 77 Remuneration report continued External advisers The remuneration committee receives independent advice from New Bridge Street ""NBS"" consultants."
NBS abides by the Remuneration Consultants' Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS was appointed by the committee and does not provide other services to the Group.
Total fees charged by NBS for the year were 63,513.
External Directorships The Group earned fees of 23,000 for Martin Gilbert's services as a non-executive director of one Aberdeen managed company and 64,750 for Hugh Young's services as a non-executive director of three Aberdeen managed companies.
The table below sets out details of the external directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they received in respect of their services during the year.
Position 2016 2015 Martin Gilbert Deputy Chairman, Sky plc 136,477 139,695 Bill Rattray Non-executive director, Curtis Banks Group PLC 31,250 10,607 Statement of shareholder voting At the 2016 AGM, shareholder voting on remuneration was as follows: Approve the Directors' Remuneration Report January 2016 AGM % Votes cast in favour 637.0m 65.7 Votes cast against 332.6m 34.3 Total votes cast 969.6m 100.0 Abstentions 24.8m Taking account of the significant percentage of votes cast against the Directors' Remuneration Report at the last AGM, the committee undertook a review of policy and practice during the year.
This included considering the views of shareholders and proxy advisers.
A number of changes have resulted from this review, which are summarised in the Chairman's introductory statement to this report.
78 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy If any material changes to the remuneration policy are During 2016 we have reviewed our Directors' Remuneration contemplated, the remuneration committee chairman will consult Policy.
A number of changes to the policy are proposed, with major shareholders about these in advance.
taking account of shareholder feedback.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last The key changes we are proposing are: years remuneration report are provided in the annual report on remuneration section of this report.
The introduction of individual caps on variable pay awards, defined as a multiple of fixed pay.
The committee has set a Considerations elsewhere in the Group maximum amount of cash variable pay and a maximum amount The Group applies a consistent remuneration philosophy for of variable pay in deferred shares.
Previously, variable pay staff at all levels.
Base salaries are targeted around the median awards for each individual were uncapped although there has of the relevant markets in which the Group competes for talent.
been a cap on the total variable pay pool.
All employees are eligible to be considered for performancerelated variable pay, and the principle of variable pay deferral The use of annual and long-term trailing key performance applies to all variable pay above a minimum threshold.
Rates of indicators in determining variable pay awards.
pension contribution and fringe benefit provisions are consistent Retrospective disclosure, in each year's remuneration report, between executives and other employees within each country of the weightings and performance targets for each of the key where the Group operates.
The committee considers the base performance indicators used in variable pay.
salary percentage increases for the Group's broader UK and The policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 international employee populations when determining any the AGM, and, if approved, will take formal effect from the date of annual salary increases for the executive directors.
The committee has not conducted a specific employee Policy overview consultation exercise on the directors' remuneration policy.
The remuneration committee determines, on behalf of the Board, However, the Group consults with its employees on general the Group's policy on the remuneration of the chairman, employment policies in a range of ways, including formal executive directors and other senior executives.
The committee's consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
terms of reference are available on the Group's website.
Members of staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line managers or to the human resources team.
In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, The remuneration committee monitors the effectiveness of the committee takes into account the following: the Group's remuneration policy in recruiting, retaining, the need to attract, retain and motivate talented executive engaging and motivating colleagues, and receives regular feedback directors and senior management: from the Global Head of Human Resources on how the Group's remuneration policies are perceived by colleagues and whether internal pay and benefits practice and employment conditions they are meeting business needs.
both within the Group as a whole and within the particular geographic regions in which the Group operates: The committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios between external comparisons to examine current market trends and pay levels of different roles in the Group, as this would restrict practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into flexibility in aligning reward and achievement, and potentially account their size, business complexity, international scope and create barriers to recruiting and retaining the necessary talent in a relative performance: and highly competitive employment market.
However, in considering base salary reviews and variable pay awards for executives, the aligning the remuneration policy with the long-term interests of committee considers the rates of increase, and movement in our clients, and consequently, our shareholders.
variable pay for the Group's wider employee population.
How the views of shareholders are taken into account Policy table The remuneration committee regularly consults with shareholders The table summarises the key aspects of the Groups remuneration and the investor community, and careful consideration was given policy for executive directors.
to the feedback that we received.
In designing this policy, the remuneration committee chairman engaged with major shareholders and shareholder representatives.
The committee will continue to consider shareholder feedback, as part of its annual review of remuneration policy.
com 79 Remuneration report continued Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance measures Maximum Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual No specific metrics.
However, if personal performance is The committee is guided by the general increase for the broader Fixed pay performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase for the broader employee population.
unsatisfactory, no salary increase is awarded.
employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, To pay a fair salary, commensurate with for example, development in role, change in responsibility, Reference is made to mid-market levels within relevant FTSE and industry comparators.
the individual's role, responsibilities specific retention issues, market practice or changes in regulatory and experience, and having regard to The committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
the market rates for similar roles in the Details of the outcome of the most recent salary review are provided asset management sector and other in the annual report on remuneration.
Benefits The Group currently provides a range of fringe benefits such as: medical insurance: disability None.
Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only Fixed pay insurance: life insurance: paid holiday: and international benefits assistance where appropriate.
a small percentage of total remuneration.
The costs associated with To provide market competitive, and costExecutive directors may also be eligible to participate in general employee share plans, on the same benefits provision are monitored and controlled.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within this policy.
Pension Employee contributions are made to appropriate defined contribution pension arrangements, None.
Group contribution of up to 20% of base salary, or equivalent cash Fixed pay or equivalent cash allowances are paid, subject to normal practice in the relevant country.
To provide market competitive defined Where there are legacy defined benefit plans from corporate acquisitions, these are closed to all contributions, to assist with recruitment future accrual at the earliest reasonable opportunity.
Variable pay in non-deferred cash The committee selects key performance indicators KPIs and determines the weighting for each.
Awards are subject to the achievement of key financial and strategic The maximum award in cash variable pay is 2.5x fixed pay.
To reward the achievement of The committee sets performance targets for these KPIs.
On-target performance pay-out is 50% of objectives, measured both on annual and long-term trailing The committee will set individual caps, subject to this limit, for each performance targets in a range of key the maximum award.
At least 70% of the award will be based on financial ED role, taking account of the market level of remuneration for performance areas.
The committee has the discretion to vary payments to ensure they properly reflect the role.
Subject to any considerations of commercial confidentiality, In 2016 17 the individual maximum opportunities are: the performance measures will be disclosed retrospectively in Payment will be made in cash following the end of the performance period.
Martin Gilbert 2.5x Bill Rattray 0.75x the respective Annual Report on Remuneration.
Hugh Young 2.5x Rod MacRae 0.625x Andrew Laing 0.75x Variable pay in deferred shares The same KPIs and weightings apply to the variable pay in deferred shares as to the variable pay in The performance measures attached to the deferred variable pay The maximum award of variable pay in deferred shares is 7.5x To reward performance in a range of key non-deferred cash.
award are the same as those attached to the cash variable pay fixed pay.
performance areas, to align executives' award see above.
The committee has the discretion to vary payments to ensure that it is reflects underlying The committee will set individual caps, subject to this limit, for each interests to those of shareholders, and aid performance.
ED role, taking account of the market level of remuneration for the retention of talent.
The award will be made in Aberdeen shares which are released to executive directors in equal tranches over five years.
An amount equivalent to the dividends due on the shares may be paid to In 2016 17, the individual maximum opportunities are: participants only after the earliest vesting date has passed.
Martin Gilbert 7.5x Bill Rattray 2.25x In the exceptional event that, for practical reasons, the Group is unable to make awards in shares, Hugh Young 7.5x Rod MacRae 1.875x awards may be made in deferred cash.
Andrew Laing 2.25x Other features Element and purpose Operation Malus and clawback Malus and clawback provisions apply to variable pay.
This enables the committee to seek to recoup To help ensure that variable pay awards any variable pay by means of reducing or cancelling any awards of unvested deferred variable do not encourage excessive risk.
pay, in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of an individual.
Share ownership Executive directors are required to build up a substantial interest in Group shares.
The current To encourage executive directors to requirements are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
build up their shareholding, aligning their interests with shareholders.
80 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Performance measures Maximum Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual No specific metrics.
com 81 Remuneration report continued Exercise of discretion Choice of performance measures and how performance The committee will operate variable pay plans according to the expectations are set rules of respective plans and consistent with normal market Variable pay is based on a range of key performance indicators practice and the Listing Rules, where relevant.
"The committee ""KPIs"" linked directly to the Groups strategy, which provides will retain flexibility in a number of areas regarding the operation a rounded assessment of the Groups performance."
and administration of these plans, including but not limited to The remuneration committee reviews the KPIs each year, and the following: varies them, if appropriate, to ensure that they continue to reflect the priorities for the business.
Who participates in the plans: The main emphasis is on financial metrics such as underlying profit When to make awards and payments: before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, ROCE and investment performance.
These KPIs support value How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and creation for shareholders, are a good indication of the strong how much of an award should vest: operational disciplines in place, and, most importantly, reflect the How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of Group's imperative to look after our clients.
the Group: An element of variable pay is also based on non-financial KPIs.
In the case of stated good leaver reasons or otherwise, whether These will be set by the committee on an annual basis and will be a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and linked to the strategic priorities for the year.
whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of The committee assesses what has been achieved for each KPI, leaving or at the original vesting date s as relevant: and relative to the targets which we set at the beginning of the How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain performance period.
The financial results achieved in any one year circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring are a reflection of the delivery of our long-term strategy.
A portion of the financial KPIs are linked specifically to 3 to 5 year trailing performance.
The committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust targets and or set different measures and alter weightings Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors if events happen that cause it to determine that the original compared to other employees targets or conditions are no longer appropriate and the Variable pay for all employees is determined as a total pool, amendment is required so that the targets or conditions achieve capped as a percentage of profit.
Material differences, which their original purpose.
the committee believes are necessary to reflect the different responsibilities of employees across the Group, are: In addition, prior to approving any variable pay, the committee will assess whether the amounts are appropriate taking into account Below executive director level, whilst the same 75% variable all relevant information including company performance dividend pay deferral policy applies, some individuals are permitted to pay-outs and pay for other employees.
elect to receive up to half the deferred amount in the form of an investment in funds managed by Aberdeen: the balance of the The use of discretion would, where relevant, be explained in deferred amount is delivered in Aberdeen shares.
the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, if appropriate, be subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
For executive directors and the other members of the Group management board the 75% deferred portion of variable pay vests over five years in equal tranches.
For employees below this level, the 75% deferred portion may vest over a shorter time period, which will be no less than three years.
82 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance External non-executive director positions Service contracts and loss of office payment policy Executive directors are permitted to accept a limited number of The remuneration committee periodically reviews the contractual directorships outside the Group, recognising that this can assist terms for new executive directors to ensure that these take in their personal development.
All such appointments are subject account of best practice.
to approval in advance by the Board.
Where the appointment Service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed is accepted in connection with the Groups business, any fees retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The service received are remitted to the Group.
If the appointment is not contracts contain provision for early termination.
Notice periods connected to the Groups business, the director is permitted to are limited to 12 months.
Details of outside directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they have received during Executive directors appointed up to 31 December 2013 the year are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
For executive directors appointed up to 31 December 2013, if the employing Group terminates the employment without giving the Approach to remuneration for new executive director period of notice required under the contract, then the executive appointments director is entitled to receive up to 1 year's remuneration in The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive recompense.
Compensation is limited to: base salary due for any director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Groups unexpired notice period: any amount assessed by the committee approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
as representing the value of contractual benefits and pension The variable remuneration for a new executive director would be which would have been received during the notice period: and any determined in the same way as for existing executive directors, variable pay which the director might otherwise have been eligible and would be subject to the maximum limit on aggregate variable to receive had they been permitted to serve their notice, subject to pay referred to in the policy table over.
the committee's assessment of Group and personal performance.
The committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based Any executive directors who are appointed after elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the 31 December 2013 Group and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration awards In the case of any new executive director appointment since or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join January 2014, if the individual's contract were terminated by the the Group.
Any such payments would take account of the details employing Group and payment in lieu of notice were to be made, of the remuneration foregone and of the nature, vesting dates and the committee would normally seek to limit this to base salary, any performance requirements attached to that remuneration.
pension and benefits for up to 12 months.
An amount in respect of For external and internal appointments, the Group may meet loss of variable pay for the period of notice would only be included certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
in exceptional circumstances such as ill health, and would not apply in circumstances of poor performance.
For the avoidance of doubt, note that the individual would be eligible to be considered in the normal way for any variable pay for any period they have served as an executive director, subject to the normal assessment of Group and personal performance.
The directors' contracts also provide for termination on three months' notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the director adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors' contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: The directors contracts also provide for termination on three months notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the director adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
com 83 Remuneration report continued In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: A directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for Detailed terms sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of for any new certain events such as gross misconduct.
Detailed terms for executive director Legacy arrangements existing executive appointments post For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors' Provision directors 31 December 2013 remuneration policy, authority is given to the Group to honour Notice period 12 months 12 months any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share Termination Base salary plus Normally limited schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous payment in value of benefits to base salary, plus remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to directors will be the event of including pension.
value of benefits including pension.
set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Termination by Also eligible for the Group without variable pay which Remuneration Policy Chart due notice.
the director would The chart below illustrates the total remuneration where otherwise have performance is on-target, and also shows the maximum total received.
remuneration at current base salary levels, and the minimum Any share-based entitlements an executive director holds under total remuneration in the event that no variable pay were awarded.
the Groups share plans will be determined based on the relevant It also shows the weighting of the main remuneration components plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards for executive directors.
As the chart indicates, performance-related will lapse.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as remuneration represents between 72% and 91% of maximum death, disability, redundancy, retirement or other circumstances remuneration, and three-quarters of the performance-related at the discretion of the committee taking into account the remuneration is delivered in Aberdeen shares.
individual's performance and the reasons for their departure 'good leaver' status can be applied.
Relative sizes of remuneration components for 2017 000 5,764 5,362 67% 22% 68% 3,144 2,964 61% 62% 20% 11% 1,532 1,532 1,349 54% 54% 982 982 890 51% 23% 19% 18% 18% 21% 17% 42% 42% 567 524 39% 431 431 431 14% 28% 13% 14% 28% 32% 100% 17% 9% 100% 100% 44% 100% 100% 48% 44% Below Target Max Below Target Max Below Target Max Below Target Max Below Target Max Martin Gilbert Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Bill Rattray Hugh Young Fixed pay Variable pay - cash Variable pay - deferred 84 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other non-executive directors Element Purpose Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Chairman is normally paid a single fee for all The fee level will be reviewed Chairman a high-calibre Board responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed periodically periodically by the committee.
fee Chairman by offering by the remuneration committee, with reference to There is no maximum fee level.
a market competitive market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, and a fee level.
recommendation is then made to the Board without the Chairman being present.
Additional fees may be paid in the exceptional event that the Chairman is required to commit substantial additional time above that normally expected for the role.
Any reasonable business expenses including tax thereon may be reimbursed.
NonTo attract and retain The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
Supplements The fee levels will be reviewed executive high-calibre nonmay be paid for additional responsibilities and activities, periodically.
director fees executive directors such as for the committee chairmen and other members There is no maximum fee level.
by offering a market of the Board committees eg.
audit, remuneration, and competitive fee level.
nominations and the Senior Independent Director, to reflect the additional responsibilities.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and executive directors, with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
Additional fees may be paid in the exceptional event that Directors are required to commit substantial additional time above that normally expected for the role.
Non-executive directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
The appointment will normally terminate on: i a director choosing to resign voluntarily: or ii a director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: or iii annually, if the nominations committee does not approve the extension of the appointment: or iv a director being found guilty of misconduct: or v a director not being re-elected by the shareholders following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
No fee is paid to non-executive directors appointed to represent a major shareholder.
Compliance with FCA Remuneration Codes The committee regularly reviews its remuneration policy to ensure compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Aberdeen.
The remuneration policy is designed to be consistent with the prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long-term performance of the Group.
The Group Head of Risk is involved in reviewing the remuneration policy and practice to ensure that it is aligned with sound risk management, and keeps the committee informed of Aberdeen's risk profile so that this can be taken into account in remuneration decisions.
Approval This directors remuneration report has been approved by the Board of directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.
Richard Mully Chairman of the remuneration committee 27 November 2016 aberdeen-asset.
