governAnce reMuneration report The period from 2013 to 2016 has seen significant financial and operational improvements, with overall production up over 29%, aISC and cash costs down 29% and 21% respectively, and cash flow from operating activities up 70% to uS$318 million.
From a wider business perspective, Brad has overseen the relaunch of the Company as acacia Mining, led the expansion of our land package across africa, and driven a number of successful employee development programmes across our operations.
With these factors in mind, the Committee confirmed the vesting of PRSu awards and single figure for 2016, noting also that given the progression of acacias share price under Brads leadership, it is not anticipated that future single figures will be of the same magnitude.
review of remuneration policy for 2017 Michael Kenyon In light of the requirement to seek formal shareholder approval for our COMPENSaTION COMMITTEE CHaIRMaN Remuneration Policy at the 2017 aGM, and mindful of the numerous developments in market practice over the period since we last sought dear shareholders, approval, the Committee has used the last few months to undertake a as noted elsewhere in the annual Report, 2016 was a record year full review of our compensation arrangements with the overall aim of for acacia in several ways: we delivered significant increases in Group ensuring that they continue to be aligned with acacias strategy and production 829,705 ounces, exceeding our initial guidance range for long-term vision, and capable of attracting, motivating and retaining the year of 750,000 to 780,000 and exceeding the revised guidance talent of the calibre required to achieve our primary goals.
we gave in October 2016 approximately 820,000 ounces : we saw a Overall, the Committee considers that the existing remuneration structure substantial fall in aISC to uS$958 per ounce, 14% lower than in 2015 has served acacia well.
The short-term incentive has focused delivery of and at the bottom of our 2016 guidance range: and we doubled net key financial and operational targets, whilst the long-term incentive has cash on the balance sheet to uS$218 million.
Regrettably safety proven effective at aligning shareholder and executive interests, and performance was disappointing, and we saw an increase of 9% on driving significant value creation.
Since our policy was approved, acacias TRIFR when compared to 2015.
We continue to target zero injuries returns to shareholders have significantly exceeded those of our LTIP and, as mentioned elsewhere in the annual Report, we have seen comparators and of the broader FTSE 350 Index.
The changes proposed an improvement in safety performance towards the end of 2016. are therefore evolutionary, relating primarily to the LTIP, and reflecting best application of policy during 2016 practice where this is considered appropriate for the Company at this time.
as foreshadowed in last years report, the salaries of the Chief Executive In addition to seeking shareholder approval for a new Remuneration Policy, and other members of the Executive Leadership Team, as well as the we will be submitting a revised set of LTIP rules which will permit future base fees of Non-Executive Directors, were each temporarily reduced executive awards to take the form of nil-cost options and make it easier by 10% with effect from 1 January 2016 to reflect market conditions at for participants to build a personal shareholding in the Company.
Given the significant progress made during the year, ltip original ELT salary levels have been reinstated.
Further, mindful of the We are proposing to amend the LTIP policy to allow the Committee to significant gap to the peer group market average for the industry in which use performance and vesting periods of longer than three years and to acacia operates, and of the need to phase salary increases gradually, provide flexibility around performance targets and leaver provisions as the Committee is proposing a 3% increase in Brads salary effective necessary to facilitate this.
This change reflects the increasing 1January 2017.
Non-Executive Director fee levels will be reviewed prevalence of holding periods for long-term incentives at uK companies in april 2017, as is the Companys usual practice.
and further incentivises shareholder value creation over the longer term.
With respect to the 2016 bonus assessment, Company-wide performance In terms of implementation, it is intended that the CEO will continue was assessed as 127.8% overall, a significant improvement on 2015 and to be eligible to receive awards of up to 400% of salary at maximum reflecting the financial and operational achievements detailed above.
vesting each year, with vesting remaining subject to TSR performance Further details as regards the CEOs 2016 bonus assessment are against an appropriate comparator group.
In respect of 2017 awards, provided on page 90.
We will continue to adopt strenuous performance performance will be measured over a five-year period, with vesting on requirements for the vesting of bonus awards in 2017 to ensure that the fifth anniversary of grant and awards being subject to both malus vesting levels remain focused on the achievement of target and above and clawback provisions, the triggers for which will be strengthened target performance.
to cover a broader definition of misconduct.
To reflect the longer In addition to the third tranche of his 2013 SOP awards which vested in performance period, the full-vesting performance level at which the full, this year also saw the vesting of PRSu awards made to Brad Gordon maximum 400% of salary award would vest has been increased for the shortly after his recruitment in august 2013.
Vesting of the PRSu awards 2017 cycle to 50% outperformance of the median TSR previously 35% was based on three-year TSR performance relative to 15 global gold peers, outperformance for the three-year cycle.
The Committee believes this with acacias 369.1% absolute TSR over the period significantly exceeding level of performance is broadly consistent in terms of toughness as the the weighted mean TSR of 37.0%, and with awards therefore vesting as to previous level under the three-year performance period.
This is illustrated 200% of target at a share price of 597.5p as opposed to 160p when the by the graphs overleaf.
Subject to the required changes to LTIP rules, the awards were first granted.
The Committee recognises that the resulting Committee is proposing to structure future executive awards in the form single figure for 2016, at approximately 11.6 million, is substantial: this of nil-cost options to better align with market practice and provide is, however, the true reflection of the significant progress made by the participants with a direct path to build shareholdings in the Company.
Company in the relevant performance period.
Further details of proposed awards for 2017 are included on page 92.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 77 reMuneration report CONTINuED base salary, pension, benefits and short-term incentives as required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Our policy in relation to base salary, pension and other benefits will remain Groups accounts and Reports amendment Regulations 2013, the unchanged.
Our policy in relation to the STI has been revised slightly, with remaining content of this Remuneration Report is divided into the an increase in the target opportunity for the CEO from 75% to 100% of Directors Remuneration Policy pages 79 to 86 and the annual salary for 2017.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of Report on Remuneration for 2016 pages 87 to 96.
The Directors introducing bonus deferral, but concluded that the proposed change to Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders for approval in a the time horizon of the LTIP will ensure that a significant proportion of binding vote at the forthcoming aGM and will come into effect pay remains at risk over the longer term and that executives remain immediately following such approval.
Save for the minor changes sufficiently aligned with shareholders, without further introducing listed below, the proposed Policy remains largely consistent with mandatory bonus deferral.
that operated over the last three years and approved at the 2014 aGM.
The substantive changes to the Policy are focused on the Shareholding guidelines LTIP and include: The Committee strongly encourages executives to build and hold a sizeable shareholding to ensure they are aligned with our investors.
Extending the LTIP performance period from three to five years To this end, for 2017 onwards we are proposing that the shareholding Introducing the flexibility to deliver future LTIP awards through guidelines for Executive Directors be increased from 200% to 400% of nil-cost options rather than as PRSus salary, and that there be a requirement to retain 50% of vested awards Replacing the five-year time limit for achieving the share ownership net of tax until the relevant guideline has been met.
guideline with a retention requirement of 50% of any net vested LTIP award until the guideline is met Shareholders should also note that the wording in the Policy table around the LTIP opportunity has been revised to be consistent with the policy of granting nil-cost options going forward.
The new Policy michael kenyon now states a maximum award of 400% of salary rather than a target Chairman of the Compensation Committee award of 200% of salary under the previous Policy: these are equivalent as the vesting schedule has also been revised such that, going forward, the achievement of the maximum performance level will deliver 1x the maximum award, rather than 2x the target award under the prior Policy.
In summary, the quantum of the LTIP opportunity remains the same.
comparison of award opportunities for prSus vs. nil-cost options prSus previous plan nil-cost options new plan grant size 200% of salary 400% of salary threshold vesting opportunity 50% of award 100% of salary 25% of award 100% of salary Maximum vesting opportunity 200% of award 400% of salary 100% of award 400% of salary vesting schedule 200% 100% 100% 50% 50% 25% Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum 3-year TSR performance 5-year TSR performance 78 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 % of award vesting % of award vesting governAnce directors remuneration policy our approach to directors remuneration Fixed components of remuneration packages for Executive Directors acacias approach to Directors remuneration aims to attract, motivate comprise base salary, pension and taxable benefits, whilst performanceand retain individuals of the calibre and with the talent necessary to related components continue to be delivered primarily via the following manage our strategic and business objectives, to lead our workforce and  plans: operations and drive our Company and business forward in a challenging Short-Term Incentive STI : a cash-based annual bonus incentive and complex operating environment and industry, in order to deliver designed to focus executives on the delivery of key short-term sustainable shareholder returns.
We aim to achieve this by offering operational objectives in order to reinforce business priorities for competitive packages benchmarked against general market practice each financial year.
This incentive scheme is measured on the within the global mining industry, based on an ethos of pay for basis of Company-wide performance and individual performance.
performance and without rewarding for failure.
Performance metrics are set on an annual basis, reflecting wider To achieve this, our Directors Remuneration Policy, which has been key performance indicators used across our business and strategic operated for a number of years, is designed around the following objectives set for the Company.
The targets for the performance key objectives: metrics vary from year to year and take into account ongoing business needs and priorities when setting appropriate base, target and Remaining competitive with international gold mining, general mining stretch thresholds.
In confirming outcomes under the STI, and in and FTSE listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
particular under the individual performance element, the Committee aligning the interests of Directors, and in particular Executive takes a holistic view of performance to ensure that pay reflects the Directors, with the short and long-term interests of shareholders.
underlying performance of the Company.
Linking executive remuneration to the performance of the Company Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP : a long-term incentive plan that and, where appropriate, the individual.
provides for the award of conditional shares, nil-cost options and achieving an appropriate balance between fixed and  stock units.
awards made to Executive Directors vest related pay.
on the basis of TSR performance condition s share price and dividends, assessed over a performance period of not less than Incorporating performance metrics that support and promote the three years and against a suitable comparator index.
The LTIP progression of the key performance indicators used to monitor aims to reward long-term decision making and performance that performance across the wider business.
delivers long-term shareholder value and returns.
The Compensation Setting challenging performance targets that reward delivery Committee considers that relative TSR is an appropriate performance and success.
measure for the LTIP because it captures objectively the shareholder Reinforcing key business imperatives and strategy.
return delivered over the long term and is less sensitive to short-term Reflecting developments affecting our wider workforce.
changes in the gold price than many alternative measures commonly used in LTIPs.
In defining our Remuneration Policy we have taken into account advice received from external consultants and external legal counsel, best although the LTIP is intended to be the primary long-term incentive for practice guidelines on executive remuneration issued by institutional Executive Directors, and has been the only scheme used over the last bodies, such as the Investment association and ISS, and have also three years, the Company retains flexibility to operate a Stock Option taken into account feedback from our shareholders, notably in the Plan SOP primarily for retention and recruitment purposes.
Further context of their historical voting at aGMs.
In addition, whilst we do not details are included in the policy table overleaf.
consult employees on the formulation of the Remuneration Policy, we The proportion of Executive Director total remuneration that is do take into account wider developments as regards our compensation performance-related is significant for target performance in order to practices for our wider employee base.
This is particularly the case when drive a culture of pay for performance.
The performance targets set for determining salary increases for the CEO and the Executive Leadership any given year are set at such a level as to be stretching but achievable, Team ELT as part of overall annual salary reviews.
with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic and implementing our remuneration policy industry developments for the year in question.
Further details of fixed We structure remuneration packages using a mixture of fixed and and performance-related components of our Remuneration Policy are performance-related components, and have adopted shareholding provided in the Summary Table of Executive Directors Remuneration guidelines to ensure alignment between Executive Directors, NonPolicy.
The Compensation Committee also retains various discretions Executive Directors and shareholders.
in order to assess Executive Director exit and severance arrangements when necessary, in order to ensure that any such arrangements are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Further information regarding our approach to Executive Director recruitment is provided on page 83 and further information as regards our approach to determining Executive Director exit arrangements is provided on page 84.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 79 reMuneration report CONTINuED Our Remuneration Policy as regards Non-Executive Directors is based for all members of the ELT to ensure they are appropriate in the on the payment of appointment fees, comprised of a base fee and circumstances.
The Committee also reviews and approves all annual base additional fees for the role of Senior Independent Director, Board salary increases and annual incentive awards made for these individuals committee chair and committee membership fees.
Independent for the same purpose.
as for Executive Directors, the reward framework Non-Executive Directors may also make elections to receive deferred at other senior executive levels focuses heavily on performance-related share units DSus under the Companys Deferred Share unit Plan remuneration.
In addition to the ELT, key senior employees participate DSu Plan in lieu of all or part of the annual fees, details of which in the LTIP, including mine General Managers and members of their are provided on page 85.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to respective mine management teams, departmental and functional heads, participate in the STI, LTIP or SOP.
and individuals who are otherwise identified as high potential performing employees for business performance and succession planning purposes.
use of remuneration policy across our workforce By adopting this approach, the Company seeks to promote the alignment In general, we apply our Remuneration Policy to Executive Directors and of individual interests with those of shareholders in order to drive the all members of the Executive Leadership Team alike to ensure that all key business forward.
individuals involved in the day to day management and oversight of the Company are appropriately rewarded and motivated to drive the Company Within the wider workforce, there is alignment on overall acacia Group forward.
all members of the ELT are eligible for awards under the STI, LTIP targets under the annual bonus plan: this is then supported by relevant and SOP and their performance targets are the same as, or cascaded team and individual targets to focus colleagues on key deliverables in from, the targets set for the Executive Directors.
The Compensation their area of the business.
The specific bonus framework varies by job Committee reviews and approves the individual remuneration packages level and scope, as appropriate.
Summary table for executive directors remuneration policy fixed remuneration base salary pension benefits Purpose To provide an appropriately competitive level of base To help provide To provide benefits which are competitive in the salary with due regard to the size and nature of the for an appropriate market in which the individual is employed.
responsibilities of each role, as well as an individual retirement benefit.
Operation Reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective Executive Executive Directors receive benefits, which usually 1 January and made at the discretion of the Directorsreceive include the provision of a company car or cash Compensation Committee.
contributions into alternative, health and life insurance, liability apersonal pension insurance, fitness club membership and Salaries are benchmarked against international gold scheme of their professional membership: however, the mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies choice, or a cash Compensation Committee retains discretion to of similar size and complexity.
supplement of approve any other form of benefit that it deems The Compensation Committee also takes into commensurate appropriate to award depending on individual account corporate and individual performance and value.
Forexample, relocation allowances experience: general market conditions: and salary and international transfer-related benefits are The Group does not increases applied within the Company as a whole.
often provided for, when required, in line with operate any defined general industry practices for the recruitment benefit schemes.
Opportunity To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors Executive Directors The value of benefits will generally be assessed and other employees, no maximum salary is set receive pension on the basis of market norms at the relevant point under the Remuneration Policy.
It is not anticipated contributions or in time.
that salary increases for Executive Directors will an equivalent cash The Compensation Committee retains the exceed those of the wider workforce over the period supplement equal discretion to approve a higher total cost during which this Remuneration Policy is effective.
to a percentage of of benefits in exceptional circumstances Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider gross base salary e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors employee population, the Committee will provide in line with market outside the Companys control have changed the rationale in the relevant years annual Report norms at the relevant materially e. g. increases in medical coverage on Remuneration.
80 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce Short-term incentive Sti Purpose To reinforce the delivery of key short-term operational objectives on an annual basis in order to promote performance as regards business priorities for each financial year in the context of individual and Company performance.
Operation Performance measure weightings and targets are set at the start of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities.
at the end of the year, the Compensation Committee determines the extent to which targets have been achieved, taking into account Company-wide performance and the individual performance of each Executive Director.
STI payments are delivered in cash and are subject to appropriate clawback provisions, further details of which are included as a note to the policy table.
Opportunity The STI provides Executive Directors with an annual bonus opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary, with target bonus opportunity of up to 100% of base salary, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee.
Performance Bonus outcomes are assessed by the Compensation Committee on a scorecard assessment, based on the achievement measures of the targets set for each performance measure and the Committees broad assessment of Company performance.
Performance measures are based on challenging budget and stretch targets for Company-wide financial and operational performance and, where appropriate, individual performance.
Performance measures may include financial, operational, growth, production, cost and capital expenditure control and sustainability metrics.
Performance measures are selected annually to reflect key strategic initiatives and matters underpinning the key financial and non-financial performance indicators used to manage performance across the acacia Group.
Performance measures will be weighted appropriately each year according to the business plan.
Weightings of performance measures may vary, typically up to 10% and 50%, with the range of performance required under each measure calibrated to reflect the Companys annual published guidance range, particularly as regards production, cash costs and capital expenditure.
Whilst performance measures, weightings and targets for any given year will not be disclosed on a prospective basis due to commercial sensitivities, the Compensation Committee aims to provide such details retrospectively as part of the annual Report on Remuneration, unless ongoing commercial sensitivities discourage such disclosures.
long-term incentive plan ltip : subject to approval of revised ltip rules Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation awards of conditional shares, nil-cost options or restricted stock units RSus may be granted annually, with the maximum value that may be awarded to each Executive Director defined as a percentage of base salary at the date of grant.
Vesting is based on acacias corporate performance over a period of not less than three years.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards will lapse.
awards under the LTIP are subject to malus and clawback provisions, further details of which are included as a note to the policy table.
Opportunity The LTIP permits a maximum award with a value equal to 400% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
The Committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances only.
Such circumstances would include, for example, specific recruitment or retention scenarios.
The exercise of this discretion would be assessed in each case on the circumstances in question.
The level of LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors each year is determined by the Committee, within the limits set out above, with reference to a range of factors including individual performance ratings.
Dividends accrue on unvested LTIP awards over the vesting period and are released, to the extent the LTIP award vests, on the date of release.
Performance Subject to continued employment and acacias relative TSR performance over the performance period when compared to a measures relevant listed index currently comprising the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
TSR performance must be at least equal to that of the TSR comparator group in order to receive any payment under LTIP awards, at which level 25% of the maximum award will vest.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the performance period, awards will lapse.
The Compensation Committee reviews the comparator group of international gold miners against which TSR performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains appropriate.
The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine the treatment of comparators in the event of their delisting or otherwise in any event which, in the opinion of the Committee, compromises the suitability of a company as a comparator for acacia.
additionally, the Committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of awards vesting in the event that the achievement against the performance condition is not a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
More generally, the performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain aligned with shareholder interests and, in this regard, the Committee retains discretion to employ performance measures other than TSR to the LTIP in order to allow for performance assessments to evolve over time.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 81 reMuneration report CONTINuED Share option plan Sop Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Whilst the LTIP is expected to be used as the main long-term incentive for Executive Directors going forward, the Committee retains the ability to grant stock options under the SOP where appropriate, such as in recruitment or retention scenarios.
The Compensation Committee will set a vesting period for SOP awards appropriate to the circumstances at the time of grant.
Historically, this has included vesting in equal parts over four years or vesting after three years.
all awards expire seven years from the date of grant.
There are no clawback provisions included under the SOP.
Opportunity The SOP permits a maximum share option award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
In the event that a stock option award was used for annual incentive purposes, such awards would ordinarily be granted at a target level equal to 150% of base salary at the time of grant.
In this regard, the Committee would look to use an appropriate valuation model, for example, the Black-Scholes model, for purposes of ascertaining the fair value of any award made.
Performance The Compensation Committee determines the performance metrics applying to share option awards as appropriate to the measures circumstances at the time of grant, based on the purpose of making such award, i. e. whether for recruitment, retention or as a matter of annual performance incentive.
Generally, in the event that the Committee were to grant an SOP award as an incentive, it would look to apply an appropriate performance condition.
Shareholding guidelines Purpose To align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the Company.
Operation Executive Directors are required to establish a shareholding equivalent to four times base salary by retaining 50% of vested awards net of tax until the guideline has been met.
pay-for-performance: scenario analysis use of compensation committee discretions The chart below provides an estimate of the potential future reward Generally, it is not possible for any remuneration policy to pre-empt opportunity for the CEO, and the potential split between the different every possible scenario and for this reason the Compensation elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Committee has been provided with the ability to apply various discretions Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
and judgements in order to ensure the achievement of fair outcomes and to maintain the flexibility required to balance the interests of individuals Potential reward opportunities are based on the Remuneration Policy.
For example, the Compensation Committee In each scenario, the STI and LTIP are based on the level of maximum may be required to exercise discretion when determining whether or opportunities in 2017 applied to the CEOs 2017 salary.
From 2017 not the outcomes of performance measures and targets applicable to onwards, the LTIP awards granted in a year will not normally vest until at incentive plans are fair in context, or if realities encourage the use of least the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value upward or downward adjustments.
By means of illustration, this may be excludes the impact of share price movement.
the case as a result of the impact of wider socio-economic or political The minimum scenario reflects the 2017 base salary, pension and prior factors or market-wide developments that were generally unforeseeable year benefits i. e. fixed remuneration which are the only elements of the or remote at the time of setting performance measures, but nonetheless Chief Executive Officers remuneration package not linked to performance.
It is for such reasons that the Compensation Committee retains a number of discretions for the The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target operation of all incentive schemes STI, LTIP and SOP including, STI 100% of salary and half of the LTIP vesting 200% of salary.
but not limited to, the ability to determine the following: The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum Scheme participants.
payout under all incentives 150% of salary under the STI and full vesting The timing of grant and size of awards.
of an LTIP award 400% of salary.
appropriate treatment of vesting of awards in the context of restructurings and or takeovers.
Brad Gordon appropriate adjustments to awards in the event of variations to the 000 3,292 Companys share capital.
absent specific bad leaver scenarios, the ability to determine and 2,069 60% designate leavers as good leavers in order to determine appropriate 47% treatment of awards in exit scenarios.
22% 601 24% Treatment, size and grant of awards in a recruitment context.
100% 29% 18% The application, scope, weighting and targets for applicable Minimum On-target Maximum performance measures and performance conditions from time to time, including any amendments to existing performance Fixed remuneration measures conditions and related targets.
Annual bonus Long-term incentives 82 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce Whilst it may not be possible to give an exhaustive list of Compensation calibre and experience required to run our business.
This will generally Committee discretions, the exercise of discretions and the rationale be determined in each case not only in the context of the skills required underpinning their use, if any, will generally be provided in context, for a position and those of each candidate, but also on the basis of as part of the annual Report on Remuneration.
recruitment trends within the global mining industry and any additional considerations relevant to the recruitment of executives.
In addition, our malus and clawback approach to recruitment will also depend on whether we use external awards under the STI and the LTIP are subject to clawback and, in recruitment or internal promotion routes.
respect of the LTIP from 2017, malus provisions which can be applied to both vested and unvested awards.
Clawback provisions will apply external recruitment for a period of up to one year from the end of the performance period.
In determining appropriate remuneration for an external candidate, the Circumstances in which malus and clawback may be applied include Compensation Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors misconduct and misstatement.
including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the approach to recruitment of executive directors best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
For such purposes, When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive the Compensation Committee may make use of all of the existing Director the Compensation Committee aims to offer a package that is components of the Remuneration Policy as follows: sufficiently competitive, to attract, motivate and retain candidates of the maximum annual component approach grant value Fixed Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, N a remuneration experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash supplement, which is N a equivalent to that received by existing executives and in line with market norms.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to the N a provision of a company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance and any necessary relocation expenses.
Variable STI The STI described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy will apply to 150% of salary remuneration new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive.
1 LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other executives, as 400% of salary described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 SOP New appointees may be granted awards under the SOP, as described in the Summary Table for 200% of salary Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 award can be higher in circumstances deemed by the Committee to be exceptional, i. e. where it is necessary to buy out incentive arrangements or make offers equivalent to sign-on bonuses.
The Compensation Committee may also make an award under the terms exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R where of one of the Companys incentive plans outlined above in respect of a necessary.
Such an award would include, for example, a sign-on new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving payment.
The Compensation Committee confirms that any arrangement a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant specifically established to recruit an individual would take the form of factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, performance-related variable remuneration.
On recruitment, the value the likelihood of those conditions being met and the term remaining to of this remuneration would be capped at the limits contained in the LTIP their vesting.
In addition, where candidates are recruited from overseas, and SOP or the value of awards which the individual had to surrender the Committee may be required to consider additional benefits received in order to be recruited, whichever is the greater.
The policy that exists in the home jurisdiction or arrange for a form of substitution of such for current Executive Directors would then apply to the balance of the benefits in addition to the payment of suitable relocation allowances.
In addition, the Compensation The Compensation Committee may also consider it appropriate to grant Committee does not envisage that a cash payment such as a golden an award under a structure not included in the Remuneration Policy, hello would be offered.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 83 reMuneration report CONTINuED internal promotion ltip 2017 onwards In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal as executive LTIP awards made from 2017 onwards have five-year promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the policy used for performance and vesting periods, the treatment of awards held by external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual leavers will depend on the period elapsed from the date of grant.
These commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director leaver conditions are drafted to ensure broad consistency of leavers with level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even market norms for a more traditional LTIP with a three-year performance in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the period, and two-year holding period.
prevailing Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
If a Director leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date approach to executive director exit arrangements of grant and is a bad leaver, awards will lapse.
For good leavers within Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early the first 36 months from the date of grant, vesting of LTIP awards will termination, are carefully considered by the Compensation Committee typically be calculated based on performance to the end of the relevant and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the performance period with awards pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the quality required to manage the Company.
The Committee considers first 36 months from grant elapsed at the time of leaving and released appointments of an indefinite term and with a notice period of one at the normal date, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
The service contract used for the Companys awards for which more than 36 months have elapsed will lapse only current CEO, being the sole Executive Director at present, provides for in the event of misconduct on the part of the Director.
In all other compensation of 12 months salary in the event of early termination.
scenarios, awards will continue in the plan with no time-based reduction, The Company has the discretion to pay such compensation in but with vesting based on performance to the end of the relevant instalments, requiring the Executive Director to mitigate loss i. e. by performance period and released at the normal date, unless otherwise gaining new employment over the relevant period, or in a lump sum.
If notice to terminate is served by either the Executive Director or the Company, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, On a change of control, outstanding LTIP awards will vest according to benefits and pension for the duration of his her notice period during performance up to the date of the event and be subject to a time-based which the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil his her reduction if such awards are less than 36 months from the grant date, current duties or may assign a period of garden leave, depending on the unless the Committee determines otherwise.
alternatively, acacia circumstances in question.
The service contract used for any new awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer hire would be based on similar terms.
The CEOs service contract is where agreed.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Summary termination, termination for misconduct or gross negligence Generally, in an exit scenario the Company will honour all contractual or termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination entitlements, this being a matter required by the operation of law, and are all examples of bad leaver scenarios.
Good leavers include individuals for individuals who relocated from overseas, reasonable relocation who have left the Company as a result of retirement, injury, disability or costs will be considered as appropriate in the circumstances.
In addition, the Compensation Committee retains the discretion to determine any leaver that is not a bad leaver as a good leaver.
This The treatment of incentive arrangements in exit scenarios are discretion is viewed as necessary by the Company given the vast range of considered on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant scenarios in which an individual may leave the Company where conduct is contractual terms of the individual, the circumstances of the exit and any not at issue.
The availability of this discretion is particularly relevant in exit applicable duty to mitigate.
Generally, the payment of incentives as part scenarios in which an individuals performance per se is not at issue.
of exit arrangements is determined on the basis of good leaver bad Whilst it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of such scenarios, leaver and change of control scenarios, subject to Committee examples would include circumstances in which the Board determines a discretions, as follows: need to change the Companys strategic direction or focus, or is required Sti to review Board and management composition generally, as a result of There is no automatic eligibility for payment under the STI.
The operational or market developments, or other developments in the Committee may exercise discretion to award a bonus for the business, such as entry into new markets or a restructuring of the performance year.
Such discretion would generally only be used in good business.
In any event, when exercising such discretion the Compensation leaver scenarios.
If an award is made, the award will be made on a Committee would always recognise and take into account the balance of pro-rata basis for the period of time served to the agreed termination shareholder interests and those of the departing individual.
any STI payment would be subject to applicable STI performance measure and target assessments for the year in question.
ltip pre-2017 and Sop In the event of a Directors resignation, all outstanding awards will lapse.
For good leavers, vesting of LTIP awards is typically calculated based on performance to the end of the relevant performance period with awards pro-rated to reflect time employed, although the Committee may exercise discretion to waive time pro-rating of award in certain circumstances.
Stock options for good leavers vest in full subject to the vesting schedule determined at grant.
any stock options which remain unexercised six months following the vesting date will lapse.
84 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce executive director external appointments Non-Executive Director remuneration primarily focuses on the payment of It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept nonfees.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the executive directorships of other quoted companies for which they would incentive plans available to Executive Directors.
However, Non-Executive normally be allowed to retain fees.
any such directorships must be Directors may participate in the Companys DSu Plan.
This plan provides formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Currently, no such Non-Executive Directors with the option to receive some or all of their positions are held by the Companys sole Executive Director.
annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash approach to non-executive director remuneration payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with value of the Companys shares at the time of payment and remain broad commercial, international and other experience relevant to mining subject to market fluctuations in the context of the Companys share operations.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the price until the time of payment.
This plan was adopted by the Company recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
in 2012 to address certain equivalent practices and trends of North Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to american mining companies to ensure that our practices for Nonannual re-election by shareholders at each aGM in accordance with Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and the requirements of the uK Corporate Governance Code.
upon the competitive against our global peers.
DSus are granted annually, usually recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee, they in april of each year.
In addition, to align Non-Executive Director interests may be re-appointed for two additional terms of three years, subject with shareholders, the Company has adopted Non-Executive Director to their continuing to satisfy requirements for continuing appointment shareholding guidelines for its independent Non-Executive Directors, and, again, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The terms which require relevant individuals to acquire a minimum shareholding of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter equivalent to their annual base fee within five years from election to the of appointment.
These letters do not contain any provision for Board, which may be satisfied through the purchase of acacia Ordinary compensation for early termination of office.
Requirements for notice Shares or by DSus holdings.
periods are reviewed on a case by case basis.
all letters of appointment Details as regards current outstanding awards under the DSu Plan and for Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys acacia Ordinary Shares currently held by Non-Executive Directors are registered office.
Summary table for non-executive director remuneration policy fees Purpose To attract and retain candidates with the required skill and experience to form part of the Board and to ensure fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are competitive and comparable with other companies of equivalent size and complexity operating within the global mining industry.
Operation The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 april each year.
Fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Compensation Committee, while the base fee and any other fee payable to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman of the Board on behalf of the Board.
In addition to the base fee, additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and as chair of any of the Boards Committees audit, Compensation, EHS&S, Nomination & Governance and for individual membership of such Committees.
These additional fees are also reviewed annually, with any adjustment effective 1 april each year.
In the event that the Board requires the formation of an additional Board Committee, fees for the chair and membership of such Committee will be determined by the Board at the time.
No base fee or fee for membership of Board Committees is payable to Non-Executive Directors appointed by Barrick pursuant to the nomination rights contained in the Relationship agreement.
Non-Executive Director fee levels are benchmarked against international gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, responsibility, and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
Opportunity Non-Executive Director fee increases are set in response to the outcome of the annual fee review.
Fees for the year ending 31 December 2016 are set out in the annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all Directors provided in the Companys articles of association is 3,000,000.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 85 reMuneration report CONTINuED deferred Share unit plan dSu plan Purpose To ensure acacia Non-Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and competitive against global peers.
Operation Non-Executive Directors can receive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSu Plan.
The value of additional DSus is credited to reflect dividends paid on acacia Ordinary Shares over the period of participation.
Cash payments become payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Cash payments are calculated by reference to the fair market value of acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in acacias share price until payment.
awards lapse in the event that an individual is summarily terminated for: i breach of contract: ii breach of Directors duties: or iii misconduct, or if an individual resigns in circumstances justifying summary termination.
Opportunity Non-Executive Directors can waive up to 100% of their annual fee.
approach to recruitment of non-executive directors approach to non-executive director exit arrangements In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the as regards Non-Executive Director resignation, retirement or termination, Board will utilise the Remuneration Policy summarised in the table base fee and any additional fees would be payable to the resignation entitled Summary Table for Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy, retirement termination date.
In respect of DSu awards, save in the case above.
a base fee which is aligned with the prevailing fee schedule would of summary termination, termination for gross misconduct or termination be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting in circumstances which would justify summary termination, DSu awards as Senior Independent Director or as Chair of any of the Boards vest in full on leaving office, whereby the relevant cash payment made in Committees and for individual membership of such Committees.
respect of awards is determined by reference to the fair market value of Non-Executive Directors would also be eligible to waive some or all of an acacia Ordinary Share at the time of payment.
their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSu Plan.
86 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce annual remuneration report for 2016 compensation committee membership in 2016 advisers as of 31 December 2016, the Compensation Committee comprised During the year, the Committee received independent advice on three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom were and remain independent: executive compensation matters from Kepler, a brand of Mercer which forms part of the MMC group of companies Kepler.
Kepler was first Michael Kenyon Chairman appointed by the Compensation Committee in 2010 and retained during Peter Tomsett the year.
The Compensation Committee evaluates the support provided Steve Lucas by its advisers annually and is comfortable that the Kepler team provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have Graham Clow served on the Committee until his retirement from the any connections with the Company that may impair its independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at The following individuals also attended meetings by invitation during the www.
com year and provided information to the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions: In 2016, Kepler provided independent advice on trends and developments, reporting regulations, the LTIP TSR performance Brad Gordon, Chief Executive Officer condition and benchmarking data for the Executive Leadership Peter Geleta, Head of People Team.
Kepler does not advise the Company on any issues outside compensation and governance thereof.
Keplers total fees for the No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is being provision of remuneration services in 2016 were 136,000 on the basis determined.
The Compensation Committee met four times during the of time and materials.
Other than advice on remuneration, no other year and details of members attendance at meetings are provided on services were provided by Kepler or any other part of the MMC group page 68. an overview of Committee activities during the year is provided of companies.
The Committee also received legal advice from Travers as part of the Committee Chairmans introduction to this report.
Smith LLP as regards certain remuneration practices during the year, the total fees for which equalled 23,149. details of directors service contracts and letters of appointment as at 31 December 2016, Directors current appointments were as follows: date of current service contract unexpired term as of letter of appointment 31 december 2016 executive director Brad Gordon 21 august 2013 N a non-executive directors Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2015 18 months Peter Tomsett 26 april 2016 28 months Rachel English 23 October 2016 34 months andre Falzon 18 april 2016 28 months Stephen Galbraith 18 april 2016 28 months Michael Kenyon 18 april 2016 28 months Steve Lucas 23 October 2016 34 months ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 13 July 2014 7 months AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 87 reMuneration report CONTINuED Single total figure of remuneration for directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2016. a b c e Salary fees Taxable benefits STI LTIs Pension Total d 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 current directors executive Brad Gordon 427,500 475,000 38,488 43,024 449,730 119,700 10,669,928 209,969 64,125 71,250 11,649,771 918,943 non-executive Kelvin Dushnisky Peter Tomsett 116,875 122,500 116,875 122,500 ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 96,875 102,500 96,875 102,500 andre Falzon 96,875 102,500 96,875 102,500 Michael Kenyon 91,875 97,500 91,875 97,500 f Graham Clow 26,298 92,500 26,298 92,500 Steve Lucas 81,875 87,500 81,875 87,500 Rachel English 76,597 92,500 76,597 92,500 Stephen Galbraith Notes: a N on-Executive Director fees payable include all base fees paid in respect of the appointment as a Non-Executive Director and additional fees payable in respect of appointments as SID, Chair and or members of Board committees.
an overview of fees payable for 2016 is provided on page 90.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive all or some of their annual fees in DSus, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSu Plan.
Further details of this plan are provided on page 85.
Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to Barricks nomination rights under the Relationship agreement Kelvin Dushnisky and Stephen Galbraith do not receive any fees in respect of their appointment.
b a breakdown of 2016 taxable benefits is provided below: Car allowance Medical Total Brad Gordon 32,261 6,227 38,488 c T his represents the short-term incentive payable in cash for annual performance.
Details as regards the performance assessment applicable to the CEO 2016 STI award are provided on page 90.
88 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce Single total figure of remuneration for directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2016. a b c e Salary fees Taxable benefits STI LTIs Pension Total d 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 current directors executive Brad Gordon 427,500 475,000 38,488 43,024 449,730 119,700 10,669,928 209,969 64,125 71,250 11,649,771 918,943 non-executive Kelvin Dushnisky Peter Tomsett 116,875 122,500 116,875 122,500 ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 96,875 102,500 96,875 102,500 andre Falzon 96,875 102,500 96,875 102,500 Michael Kenyon 91,875 97,500 91,875 97,500 f Graham Clow 26,298 92,500 26,298 92,500 Steve Lucas 81,875 87,500 81,875 87,500 Rachel English 76,597 92,500 76,597 92,500 Stephen Galbraith d T he 2016 figure represents the third quarter of the 2013 SOP award which vested as to 100% during the year and the value of the 2013 LTIP award that vested as to 200% during the year.
Further details are included on pages 91 and 93. e N o DSu elections were made by any Non-Executive Directors in 2016. f Graham Clow stepped down from the Board in april 2016.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 89 reMuneration report CONTINuED executive director salaries as explained in the 2015 annual remuneration report, Mr Gordon made a voluntary election to waive a proportion of base salary 10% for 2016 in light of prevailing market conditions in 2015. as such, his adjusted base salary for 2016 was 427,500. at the time the election was made the Committee noted that it would review the appropriateness of reinstating prior base salary levels at a suitable time in the future.
Mr Gordons prior base salary was re-instated to 475,000 at year end for purposes of assessing 2017 salary increases.
using the re-instated salary amount as the basis of assessment, for 2017 purposes, Mr Gordons salary shall be 489,250, being an increase of 3% on his reinstated 2016 salary.
This adjustment took effect as of 1 January 2017. non-executive director fees For the year ending 31 December 2016, no fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, appointed by Barrick pursuant to its nomination rights under the Relationship agreement.
Non-Executive Director fees are assessed in april each year.
The table below reflects fees payable in respect of 2016, effective as of 1 april 2016.
Fee component amount Base fee 76,500 Senior Independent Director fee 25,000 Chair of audit Committee fee 20,000 Chair of Compensation Committee, EHS&S Committee, and Nomination & Governance Committee fee 15,000 Board Committee membership fee 5,000 as explained in the 2015 annual remuneration report, all independent Non-Executive Directors made a voluntary election to waive 10% of their base fee for 2016, with such adjustment applying as of 1 april 2016.
In line with Company practice, the Board will review the independent Non-Executive Director fees in april 2017, with any adjustment applying as of 1 april 2017. executive directors Short-term incentive awards For the year ending 31 December 2016, Executive Director STI awards were earned on the basis of Company-wide performance 80%, this being representative of the overall leadership, management and performance of an individual holding this position and also include a component to assess individual performance 20%.
Company-wide performance measures continue to focus on the core metrics which we use to assess performance as regards safety, production, cost control and profit generation.
These performance metrics were assessed on the basis of individual weightings and in line with a range of performance targets to provide for threshold, target and maximum performance, as outlined in the table opposite.
The Committee has given careful consideration to the retrospective disclosure of 2016 and 2015 annual bonus targets and considers that these remain commercially sensitive at this time.
It is intended that targets will be disclosed at the earliest opportunity in the next three years, provided they are no longer commercially sensitive at that time.
as noted in the Committee Chairmans letter, 2016 was a record year for acacia in several ways: we delivered Group production of 829,705 ounces, exceeding our initial guidance range for the year of 750,000 to 780,000 and exceeding the revised guidance we gave in October 2016 approximately 820,000 ounces : we saw a substantial fall in aISC to uS$958 per ounce, 14% lower than in 2015 and at the bottom of our 2016 guidance range: and we doubled net cash on the balance sheet to uS$218 million.
Regrettably safety performance was disappointing, and we saw an increase of 9% on TRIFR when compared to 2015.
We continue to target zero injuries and, as mentioned elsewhere in the annual Report, we have seen an improvement in safety performance through the end of 2016. as regards the 2016 bonus assessment, Company-wide performance was assessed as 127.8% overall, an impressive outcome equivalent to 77% of the CEOs salary following the application of the Company STI weighting.
as regards the CEOs individual performance, Brad Gordons commitment to the business has been unwavering and he has continued to show strong leadership of the Company to drive core initiatives and programmes.
Taking into account his personal achievements and commitment this year, the Board has assessed his personal performance levels as equivalent to 18% of base salary overall.
When combined with the assessment of Companywide performance, this equates to a bonus rating of 95% of base salary, compared to a target of 75%.
again, and as noted in the 2015 annual report on remuneration, the CEO 2016 STI target was to be assessed against the CEOs re-instated base salary level, accounting for the fact that Mr Gordons initial 2016 adjusted salary was entirely voluntary.
as such, the 2016 CEO STI has been assessed against a base salary of 475,000, and equates to a payment of 449,730 for the year.
For 2017, we have increased the CEOs STI target opportunity to 100% to reflect our continuing commitment to pay for performance.
The 2017 STI will be assessed against the 2017 base salary level with a maximum opportunity of 150% for maximum performance.
Broadly, performance measures for 2017 will continue to focus on production, costs, safety and profitability and will be assessed on the same basis as 2016: Company performance 80% with an element of individual performance 20%.
90 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce 2016 company Sti scorecard assessment Overall Scorecard Strategic focus KPI Weighting Performance assessment actual Rating % Safety Total reportable injury 10% Base 50% : 2015 performance i frequency rate TRIFR Target 100% : 10% improvement on base 0.74 0% Stretch 150% : 20% improvement on base Wall 200% : 30% improvement on base Production Ounces of gold 30% Base 30% : 95% of target ii Target 50% : 100% of target produced oz 829,705 38.35% Stretch 150% : 103% of target Wall 200% : 106% of target iii Profit generation Free cash flow 40% Base 30% : 95% of target Target 50% : 100% of target 115,557 80% Stretch 150% : 110% of target Wall 200% : 120% of target Cost control all-in sustaining cost 20% Base 30% : 3% target iv per ounce sold aISC Target 50% : approved target aISC 925 9.5% Stretch 150% : 3% target Wall 200% : 6% target sum of company scorecard ratings 127.8% Notes to Company STI scorecard table: i Please refer to page 24 of this annual Report for an explanation of how TRIFR is measured and its relevance to safety performance.
ii Please refer to page 24 of this annual Report for an explanation of how gold production is measured and its relevance to our productivity levels.
iii For STI KPI purposes, free cash flow is calculated as: gold revenue, copper revenue, silver revenue all costs including sustaining capital, corporate social responsibility costs, finance leases relating to operations and exploration dividends working capital.
iv Please refer to page 24 of this annual Report for an explanation of how aISC is measured and its relevance to cost control achievements across the business.
overall outcome of ceo Sti assessment company and individual performance Element Weighting assessment Outcome as a % of salary Company-wide performance 80% 127.8% 77% Individual performance 20% 18% total 95% executive director ltip awards vesting in 2016 audited as noted in the Committee Chairmans letter, Mr Gordons 2013 LTIP award, made at the time of his recruitment, reached the end of its three-year performance period.
Vesting was dependent on acacias TSR performance against the weighted average TSR of a comparator group of international gold mining companies selected at the time of award grant, as follows: Comparators agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. IaMGOLD Corp. angloGold ashanti Ltd Kinross Gold Corporation Buenaventura Mining Company Petropavlovsk PLC Centamin plc New Gold Inc Centerra Gold Inc. Randgold Resources Ltd. Eldorado Gold Corp. Semafo Inc. Gold Fields Ltd. yamana Gold Inc. Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd. 1 acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group median over three years % of interests transferred 20% 200% 0% 100% -12.5% 50% Below -12.5% 0% 1 Where performance is between the above levels, the percentage of RSus to be transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 91 reMuneration report CONTINuED Over the relevant three-year period, acacias TSR of 369.1% significantly exceeded the weighted average TSR of the comparator group 37.0%, resulting in 200% of the original interests awarded vesting on 20 august 2016, as follows: rSus vesting date vested market price on vesting value Brad Gordon 1,631,842 20 august 2016 5.975 9,750,256 The Committee recognised the resulting payout from the 2013 LTIP recruitment award made to Mr Gordon was significant: it is however a true reflection of the performance of the Company under his tenure over the performance period.
acacia has advanced significantly and the TSR performance assessment is reflective of the significant share price growth over the three-year period performance period, serving to illustrate the strong shareholder alignment that the LTIP TSR condition provides.
executive director ltip awards existing as at 31 december 2016 audited as at 31 December 2016, the following awards were outstanding under the LTIP: Shares over which Shares over which Shares over which awards held as of awards granted Market price at End of performance awards held on award date 01 January 2016 during the year date of award period Vesting date 31 December 2016 brad gordon 17 February 2015 310,383 2.77 16 February 2018 16 February 2018 313,182 16 February 2016 418,502 2.27 15 February 2019 15 February 2019 422,276 These awards are subject to the assessment of the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
The TSR performance against the Euromoney Global Gold Index constituents will be assessed over the performance period as follows: acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group median over three years % of target level of award 35% 200% 12% 100% 0% 50% Below 0% 0% executive director ltip awards to be granted in respect of 2016 long-term incentive award audited Subject to shareholder approval of revised LTIP rules at the 2017 aGM, Brad Gordon will receive an LTIP award in the form of nil cost options, representing an award with a value 400% of base salary.
The market value of an acacia Ordinary Share will be determined by reference to the following formula after the 2017 aGM: Mv s 5 Where: Mv is the market value of a share: and s is the sum of the middle market quotation of a share over the five days prior to the date of grant being the five dealing days commencing on the date of the 2017 aGM.
The award is subject to a five-year performance period and the vesting date is the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, which is expected to be on or around 26 april.
The award is subject to the assessment of the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the Euromoney Global Gold Index as follows: acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group median over five years % of interests transferred 50% 100% 16% 50% 0% 25% Below 0% 0% 92 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce To reflect the longer performance period, the full-vesting performance level at which the maximum 400% of salary award would vest has been increased for the 2017 cycle to 50% outperformance of the median TSR previously 35% outperformance for the three-year cycle.
as noted in the Committee Chairmans letter, the Committee believes this level of performance is broadly consistent in terms of toughness as the previous level under the three-year performance period.
This is illustrated by the graphs below.
comparison of award opportunities for prSus vs. nil-cost options prSus previous plan nil-cost options new plan grant size 200% of salary 400% of salary threshold vesting opportunity 50% of award 100% of salary 25% of award 100% of salary Maximum vesting opportunity 200% of award 400% of salary 100% of award 400% of salary vesting schedule 200% 100% 100% 50% 50% 25% Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum 3-year TSR performance 5-year TSR performance executive directors interests under the Sop Stock options only audited as at 31 December 2016 the following awards were outstanding under the SOP: Shares over Shares over Exercised Market Shares over which awards which awards lapsed price at which awards held as at granted during Exercise during date of Earliest Final held as at award date 01 Jan 2016 the year price the year exercise Expiry date vesting date vesting date 31 Dec 2016 brad gordon 21 august 2013 841,308 1.60 N a 20 august 2020 20 august 2014 20 august 2017 841,308 as part of his recruitment package Brad Gordon received a stock option award equal to 841,308 acacia Ordinary Shares on 21 august 2013, representing an award with a fair market value at the time of grant equal to one year of base salary 425,000.
The fair market value of the award was ascertained using the Monte Carlo Simulation valuation 31.5% of the market value of an acacia Ordinary Share.
The market price of acacia Ordinary Shares at the time of this award was 1.60, assessed on the basis of the average of middle market quotations from the Daily Official List of the LSE for the day of grant and the following two dealing days.
The award vests in equal parts over four years and expires seven years from the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to the satisfaction of a TSR performance condition similar to that outlined above for the RSu award made to Mr Gordon in 2013.
No SOP awards were granted in respect of 2016. as disclosed in the previous years report, the first and second tranches of Mr Gordons 2013 SOP award vested in full as at 20 august 2014 and 20 august 2015 respectively, with 210,327 options having become exercisable to Mr Gordon on each of these dates.
During the year, the third tranche of Mr Gordons 2013 SOP award was tested for performance as at 20 august 2016.
Over the relevant period acacias TSR of 369.1% exceeded the weighted mean of comparators by 332.1%, and consequently a further 210,327 options became exercisable to Mr Gordon on 20 august 2016. as at 31 December 2016, Mr Gordon had not exercised any of these vested awards.
percentage change in ceo remuneration The table overleaf shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for ELT members.
Given that the Company operates across a number of diverse economies with pay levels and structures reflecting local market conditions, the Compensation Committee believes that using the ELT as a subset for the purposes of comparing CEO remuneration provides a more meaningful comparison than using pay data for all employees.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 93 % of award vesting % of award vesting reMuneration report CONTINuED The CEOs remuneration includes base salary, taxable benefit and STI payments.
ELT data is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2016 and 2015 populations.
Further details of the Companys economic contribution, including the economic value we add by paying our employees, Governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors and communities, is included in the sustainability review of this annual Report.
2016 2015 % change 000 000 20152016 Shareholder distributions 15,101 15,196 1 % Total employee expenditure 93,518 74,279 26% comparison of company performance The following graph shows acacias TSR performance for the period from the IPO to 31 December 2016 calculated in accordance with the regulations against the FTSE 350 and acacias LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 350 was chosen on the basis of it being a recognised broad equity market index, of which acacia was a member for the reporting period.
The CEO remuneration table below details the Chief Executive Officers single figure remuneration over the same period.
Historical TSR performance: Historical TSR performance: Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding from IPO to 31 December 2016 from Brad Gordons start date to 31 December 2016 200 400 175 350 150 300 125 250 100 200 20 Aug 75 150 2013 50 100 25 50 0 18 Mar 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 0 18 Mar 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 Acacia Acacia FTSE 350 FTSE 350 2016 LTIP comparator group unweighted median 2016 LTIP comparator group unweighted median Based on spot share prices in GBP.
Based on spot share prices in GBP.
2016 LTIP comparator group based on an unweighted median.
ceo remuneration table Individual 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ceo single figure of remuneration Greg Hawkins 774 936 1,282 1,171 N a N a N a 000 Brad Gordon N a N a N a 317 931 919 11,650 Sti payout as % of maximum Greg Hawkins 60% 50% 43% 90% N a N a N a opportunity Brad Gordon N a N a N a 90% 36% 17% 63% rSu vesting as % of maximum Greg Hawkins N a N a N a 44% N a N a N a opportunity Brad Gordon N a N a N a N a N a N a 100% option vesting as % of maximum Greg Hawkins N a 100% 100% N a N a N a N a opportunity Brad Gordon N a N a N a N a 100% 100% 100% 94 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce executive director exit arrangements audited The final payments made in respect of Greg Hawkins exit arrangements were disclosed in the 2015 annual Report and accounts.
There were no other exit payments or payments to past Directors during 2016. directors interests in acacia ordinary Shares and shareholding requirements audited For 2016 purposes, Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding in acacia Ordinary Shares equivalent to two times base salary over a period of five years.
For these purposes, LTIP awards are taken into account but stock option awards made under the SOP are not taken into account when assessing whether or not shareholding requirements have been satisfied.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding equivalent to their annual base fee within five years of election to the Board, which may be satisfied via the acquisition of acacia Ordinary Shares or by the receipt of DSu awards under the acacia DSu Plan.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2016 along with the form of their interests in acacia Ordinary Shares.
Shares held Options held RSus held DSus held unvested and unvested and Vested subject to subject to Shareholding Current Owned outright but not performance performance requirement shareholding Requirement a a b c or vested exercised condition condition unvested % salary fee % salary fee met?
executive director d e Brad Gordon 630,981 210,327 735,458 200% 200% yes non-executive directors Kelvin Dushnisky N a N a N a Peter Tomsett 131,085 100% 653% yes ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 34,397 100% 214% yes andre Falzon 9,000 15,330 100% 152% yes Michael Kenyon 41,067 100% 256% yes Steve Lucas 12,384 100% 62% N a Rachel English 17,383 13,946 100% 156% yes Stephen Galbraith N a N a N a Notes: a R Sus and stock option awards vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
b T he Companys DSu Plan for Non-Executive Directors provides Non-Executive Directors with the option to receive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market value of acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context of acacias share price until the time of payment.
c as regards Executive Directors this is calculated by reference to annual base salary at the time of the relevant individuals appointment against the value of relevant awards at the time of grant.
as regards existing Independent Non-Executive Directors, this is calculated by reference to either: i the annual Non-Executive Director base fee at the time of adopting the guidelines, if appointed to the Board at that time: or ii the annual Non-Executive Director base fee at the time of appointment, assessed against the higher of: i the number of shares multiplied by the mid market price on the last trading day before the valuation date: or ii the number of shares multiplied by the share price on the date of acquisition of each relevant interests during the applicable five-year acquisition period.
d C onsists of options awarded on recruitment which vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
e Shareholding guideline applying during the 2016 financial year.
This guideline will increase to 400% of salary following approval of the revised Remuneration Policy.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 95 reMuneration report CONTINuED Brad Gordons interests will be increased to reflect the 2016 LTIP award.
Details of this award are provided on page 92 of this report.
There have been no other changes in Directors shareholdings between 31December 2016 and 7 March 2017.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2016 agm The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2015 Remuneration Report at the 2016 aGM: Total number of votes % votes cast directors remuneration report 2015 For 375,223,520 99.53 against 1,758,442 0.47 Votes cast excluding withheld votes 376,979,775 Votes withheld 2,167 total votes cast including withheld votes 376,981,942 No significant concerns were raised by shareholders in the context of 2016 aGM voting.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was last subject to a binding vote at the 2014 aGM, when 98.37% of shareholders voted in favour of the relevant resolution.
The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding vote at the 2017 aGM.
as noted in the Chairmans letter, we have communicated intended changes to the Remuneration Policy put forward to shareholders, all of which are outlined on page 77. approval of directors remuneration report The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by michael kenyon Compensation Committee Chairman 96 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016
