94 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual remuneration statement 94 Annual remuneration statement Policy report 99 Annual report on remuneration 106 INTRODUCTION BY RUSSELL KING, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN During the last few years Aggreko has undergone a considerable amount of change both internally, as we have recruited a newleadership team, and externally, as we have responded to changing economic and competitive circumstances.
During this time our Remuneration Policy has ceased to be aligned with the strategy of the business and the Committee therefore decided to conduct a full review of the Remuneration Policy ayearearlier than required.
RUSSELL KING REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN In conducting our review, we sought to continue our practice of clear alignment of executive reward with Shareholder value creation and incentivising management whilst accepting thatthe reward mechanisms and targets used had to reect theeconomic and market realities facing the business.
In revising the Remuneration Policy the The Policy set out in this report is consistent with rewarding our Committee has focused on ensuring that executives for achieving the targets required of a business that executive incentives remain closely aligned isin transition from a period of extraordinary growth to one that has matured, albeit with a consistently strong competitive position with Company strategy and performance and good growth and return potential over time.
The Committee has been focused on ensuring that the Policy is very closely linked to, and supportive of, the Companys strategy.
In this regard it AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016 reects a number of factors: Consulted with major Shareholders and governance bodies on new The new management team is very focused on returning Remuneration Policy.
the business to growth against a background of negligible Finalised framework for new incentive arrangements.
LTIP vesting over the last four cycles, no significant bonus Set targets for Annual Bonus Plan, both financial and personal payments and no salary increases for Executive Directors for strategic objectives.
The Committee needs to keep the management team motivated and ensure that we can attract further MEMBERS IN 2016 highquality talent: Market dynamics indicate lower returns as pre-2012 high margin Meetings attended legacy contracts come to an end, for example in Argentina: and Russell King Remuneration Committee Chairman The business strategy requires increased investment in corporate capabilities and more capital deployed in developing Ken Hanna Company Chairman new products.
Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director The Policy contains one new element, restricted shares, and a modication to the current elements, to both reect the value Ian Marchant Non-executive Director inrestricted shares, and the future financial targets for the business which result in lower ROCE.
EPS will now be measured asa nominal growth target rather than growth above RPI, AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017 although the targets will be broadly similar at threshold.
Adjudicate outcomes for the 2016 Annual Bonus for financial and Reduced annual bonus potential from 175% of salary to 125% personal strategic objectives.
ofsalary paid in cash: Set targets for the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan, both financial and Reduced LTIP awards from 300% to 200% of salary subject personal strategic objectives.
tothree-year performance with phased vesting over three, Reect feedback from Shareholder consultation in proposed four, and five years, with vesting for threshold performance amendments to incentive framework.
setat 25% of maximum: Secure Shareholder approval for new Restricted Share Plan, new all-employeeshare option schemes and revised Remuneration Policy The introduction of annual awards of restricted shares of up atthe 2017 AGM.
to75% of salary with vesting subject to continued employment Approve targets for the 2017 grants under the Long-term Incentive Plan.
over three years and no share release until the fifth anniversary of the award.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce Approve awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan and new RestrictedShare Plan.
or withhold outstanding awards in the event of exceptional circumstances, and can apply malus and clawback as with the LTIP: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE: IR.
COM INVESTORS Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 95 It is the Committees view that the modications made Increased personal shareholding requirements from 200% willgreatlyimprove the linkage between remuneration and to400% of salary: and the Companys strategy without increasing the quantum of Modied performance ranges for the LTIP expressed as incentives at target circa 2.4 million for the CEO and that nominal growth targets rather than growth above RPI.
itwillreduce the maximum fromcirca4.6 million to 4 million.
Threshold performance will be at a similar level, whereas the maximum has been reduced to reect a growth prole As Remuneration Committee Chairman I fully understand that consistent with a maturing business.
The Committee will our proposals might be viewed as non-standard but I am also retainthe exibility to modify each of these targets for each convinced that they represent a very tailored and appropriate new plan cycle during the policy period but for 2017 the approach that ensures close alignment with rewarding the targetswill be: management for delivering growth in Shareholder value.
For aCompany like Aggreko with a highly capable leadership EPS 75% average nominal EPS growth of 5% to 12% team guiding the business through a challenging period, perannum: and Iconsider it important that we retain their enthusiasm, ROCE 25% 15% to 20% measured in final year of plan.
keepthemmotivated with incentives that are within reach, andenable us to continue toattract great talent globally.
OUR REMUNERATION STRATEGY OUR AIM BALANCE OF ELEMENTS The aim of Aggrekos remuneration policy is to reward executives We aim to balance these elements so that: for delivering the principal objective delivering long-term value the majority of executive remuneration is linked to Aggrekos toour Shareholders.
financial performance: Our reward package for Executive Directors comprises: there is a heavier weighting on long-term performance than onshort-term performance: and a xed element: we use a balanced portfolio of measures which are designed s alary: to reect our goal of delivering sustainable profit growth over pension: and the long term.
We plan to achieve this by focusing on our b enets, four business priorities of the customer, technology, efficiency and people.
generally based on market median for companies of similar size and complexity So for example, the potential future reward opportunities for theChief Executive officer are as follows: a variable element: annual bonus, based on demanding annual performance Chris Weston targets, both financial and personal: Maximum 25% 14% 23% 38% 4,000k On-target 42% 23% 19% 16% 2,406k long-term incentives, based on long-term strategic financial Minimum 64% 36% 1,563k 39% performance: and 0 1 million 2 million 3 million 4 million restricted shares.
Salary, pension, benets Restricted shares Annual bonus LTIP READ OUR REMUNERATION POLICY ON PAGE 99.
READ THE FULL SCENARIO ANALYSIS FOR BOTH EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PAGE 104.
OUTCOME FOR 2016 SINGLE FIGURE TOTAL PAY  The following table shows a summary of total remuneration for2016 for each of the Executive Directors: LTIP Base Annual Salary Benets Bonus PSP CIP Sharesave Pension Other Total 1 2 Carole Cran 412,000 84,247 107,120 16,149 82,400 701,916 1 3 Chris Weston 750,000 25,035 202,500 225,000 706,620 1,909,155 1 Full details of the total remuneration and an explanation of each component are set out on pages 106 to 109.
2 Owing to the significant amount of time spent in London, based on UK legislation, Carole Cran has established a second place of employment in London.
As a result, anyhome to London ofce travel costs either reimbursed, or paid on Caroles behalf are taxable.
3 As explained on page 89 of our Annual Report 2015, Chris Weston was granted an award of shares on 30 March 2015.
50% of the shares were released on 1 April 2016.
READ THE FULL DETAILS IN THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION PAGE 106 96 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual remuneration statement continued OUR REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES FOR 2016 Determining the remuneration for the Executive Directors and Performance and annual bonus Executive Committee members is key to the workings of the In line with our remuneration policy, Aggreko operates an Committee.
We oversee Aggrekos overall remuneration policy, annual bonus plan with the aim of focusing Executive Directors strategy and implementation to ensure that the policy is aligned on achieving demanding annual targets relating to Company with the keyobjectives of growing earnings and delivering strong financial performance and personal strategic objectives.
Chris Weston, Chief Executive officer earned 27% out of a The Remuneration Committee is currently made up of four maximum 175% of salary, while Carole Cran, Chief Financial officer Independent Non-executive Directors, including myself as earned 26% out of a maximum of 175% of salary.
Peter Kennerley is secretary to I explain below how the Committee set bonus targets for 2016, theCommittee.
We also invite the Chief Executive officer, how we assessed performance against those targets, and how GroupHR Director andGroup Reward Director to attend wedecided on the level of bonus to be paid.
For 2016, annual bonus payments were determined as to In 2016, we held four meetings of the Committee.
80%based on financial performance and 20% based on Our role is as follows: personal strategic objectives.
Determine and agree with the Board the policy for The 80% financial element was measured as follows: remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors and 75% against D-EPS: and Executive Committee.
Within the terms of the remuneration policy, determine The 20% personal strategic element was based on personal thetotal individual remuneration package for the objectives set individually for each Director by the Committee.
Chairman, each Executive Director and each member of the Each included measurable improvements in safety indicators and ExecutiveCommittee, including base salary, pension, benets, agreed outcomes for set strategic objectives specic to their roles.
annual bonus and long-term incentives.
Determine, having taken appropriate legal advice, the The financial measure to which we give most emphasis is D-EPS.
level ofany payment made to the Chairman, Executive The threshold D-EPS for 2016, at which level Executive Directors Directors ormembers of the Executive Committee by would start to receive bonus, was set at 56.51 pence, with way ofcompensation for, or otherwise in connection with, targetD-EPS at 59.48 pence.
The actual outcome was 49.74 pence lossofofce or employment.
on a constant currency basis, which meant that no bonus was payable for that element.
We have set out the details of all of the Approve the design of, and determine targets for, performance 2016 targets and outcomes for the financial and personal strategic related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve objectives on pages 107 and 108, but in summary: the total annual payments made under such schemes.
Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by as D-EPS fell short of budget, none of that element will theBoard and Shareholders.
For any plan, determine each be payable: year the overall amount of awards, along with the individual as Group operating cash ow fell short of budget, none of that awards to Executive Directors and members oftheExecutive element will be payable: and Committee.
In the case of any retention or new joiner awards each of the Executive Directors largely met their to employees below the Executive Committee, retrospectively personal strategic goals for the year.
Twenty-five percent of the bonus is deferred in Aggreko shares Determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements forthree years.
for each Executive Director and members of the Executive Committee.
Full details of the performance outcomes for the Annual Bonus Oversee any major changes in employee benets structures are set out on page 107. throughout the Group.
Agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Directors.
READ MORE AND SEE OUR BONUS ENTITLEMENT ANDOUTCOME TABLES PAGE 107 OUR REMUNERATION POLICY This year we are asking Shareholders to approve a new remuneration policy which includes amendments to the structure of ourvariable pay including seeking approval for a new Restricted Share Plan : annual bonus and long-term incentives.
We explain the main changes on pages 97 and 98.
We are also seeking Shareholder approval to replace the Companys existing all-employee Sharesave option schemes, which will expire in April2017, with new Sharesave schemes.
Full details ofthe newpolicy are set out in the Policy Report on page 99.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 97 Performance and LTIPs Summary of proposed changes to short and long-term incentives In 2017 awards will vest under our previous LTIP Scheme, which The Committee proposes the following changes to Aggreko was introduced in 2004.
These are the last awards which will Executive Director incentives: vestunder this scheme and Carole Cran is the only Executive Increased minimum executive shareholding requirements: Director who participated in the scheme.
Based on performance doubled from 200% to 400% of salary.
to 31 December 2016, she willreceive the Minimum Match Award Maximum annual bonus opportunities reduced from 175% under the Co-Investment Plan.
to125% of salary, payable in cash.
The awards which vest in April 2017 were granted in2014, Maximum annual LTIP opportunities reduced from 300% andare subjectto demanding performance conditions based to200% of salary, subject to three-year performance and onreal i. e. excluding ination D-EPS annualised growth vested shares post tax being released in three equal tranches, of3-10%and return on capital employed ROCE of 20-25% over three, four and five years.
Vesting for threshold set at measured over athree-year period to 31 December 2016.
In summary, during that period real D-EPS showed no growth, Annual awards of restricted shares of up to 75% of salary and as a result, none of the shares subject to the D-EPS growth i. e. equivalent to half the reduction in annual bonus and LTIP criterion will vest: average ROCE was 16% as against a target opportunities, to be awarded under a new Restricted Share range of 20-25%, and similarly none of the shares subject to the Plan, with vesting subject to continued employment over a ROCE condition will vest.
Therefore, none of the performance three-year period but no shares released to participants until element ofthe 2014 awards will vest: only the Minimum Match the fifth anniversary of award.
The Committee would also element, equivalentto 15% of salary at the time of grant will vest retain discretion to reduce or restrict vesting of outstanding for CaroleCran.
Further details of LTIPs which vested in 2016 are awards in exceptional circumstances, including, in the event included inthe table on page 109. that the total annual dividend is less than the total dividend declared in respect of the immediately preceding financial year, or the Company has breached its net debt EBITDA covenant CHANGES IN REMUNERATION POLICY as set out in its banking facilities, at the end of the financial This year we will be asking our Shareholders to approve year.
Other exceptional circumstances if relevant would be a newremuneration policy for Executive Directors at our the subject of consideration at the time of vesting.
I explain below the background to, clawback would apply as with the annual bonusand LTIP.
andthe reasons for, the proposed changes to the Companys No material changes are proposed to the policy regarding other executive remuneration policy.
elements of remuneration, such as salary, pension and benets, at this time.
Executive Director salaries were subject to the usual CONTEXT FOR CHANGE review process by the Committee at the end of the financial year.
Details are provided on page 107.
Aggrekos current remuneration policy was approved by Shareholders at the 2015 AGM and has governed the In formulating this proposed approach to remuneration, way wehavepaid our Directors over the last two years.
the Committee carefully considered the advantages and Although weareable to operate the existing remuneration policy shortcomings of the existing remuneration structure, as well as for an additional year, the Committee has taken the opportunity the purpose and link of each element to Aggrekos new strategy.
over the last few months to undertake a comprehensive review The aim is to achieve a relatively simple, balanced incentive ofour remuneration arrangements with the aim of ensuring structure with measures and targets that incentivise Executives that pay reinforces the Companys strategy, whilst continuing toreally drive Shareholder value.
to motivate and retain executive talent at this critical time Annual bonus for Aggreko.
The Committee has noted outcomes from the The annual bonus structure has remained broadly consistent recent Investment Association Remuneration Working Group fora number of years, with the majority linked to Group financial consultation and subsequent changes to the IAguidelines, and performance, as measured by underlying D-EPS.
An element in particular the call for exibility in determining a remuneration based on personal strategic performance was introduced in 2015 policy which istailored to individual company circumstances.
to recognise the importance of non-financial KPIs in enabling Our proposal is considered by the Committee to be appropriate long-term sustainable profit growth.
One-quarter of any bonus for Aggreko at this time: incentivising short and long-term earned is currently deferred in Aggreko shares for three years.
performance through continued use of the annual bonus and Under our proposal for 2017, the maximum opportunity for Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP respectively albeit with lower Executive Directors will be reduced from 175% to 125% of salary, opportunities, and using awards of restricted shares and much with any amount earned payable in cash.
Shareholder alignment higher personal shareholding requirements to strengthen currently provided by the bonus deferral mechanism will be Shareholder alignment and talent retention.
Overall maximum strengthened through annual awards of restricted shares which variable pay would fallby16%, whilsttime horizons would be are realised by participants over a longer period five versus extended, with over 40% of variable remuneration only realisable threeyears, as well as higher personal shareholding requirements.
The annual bonus for 2017 will operate with financial During 2016, we consulted with the majority of our major performance measured against D-EPS accounting for 80% of Shareholders, representing over 50% of our issued share capital, the potential opportunity and the remaining 20% measured on on these proposed changes.
The new remuneration policy and performance against personal strategic objectives.
Further details new Restricted Share Plan to be presented to Shareholders for can be found on page 112.
It is intended that targets will continue approval at our 2017 Annual General Meeting take into account to bedisclosed on a retrospective basis to allow Shareholders to the feedback from these consultations.
make an informed voting decision on the bonus structure and outcomes each year.
98 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual remuneration statement continued Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP Consideration of restricted shares for Executive Directors is The LTIP was approved at the 2015 AGM following one of the proposals put forward by the IA Remuneration Shareholder consultation at the time.
The Committee believes that using restricted included simplication through removal of the matching shares is appropriate at this time for Aggreko and that requiring element, areduction in maximum opportunity, the the accumulation of meaningful holdings of shares will help introductionofa mandatory post-vesting holding period, strengthen Shareholder alignment and provide a clear link to andtheintroduction of clawback provisions.
Vesting of absolute share price performance.
A significant proportion of pay LTIPsharesisbased on three-year EPS and ROCE targets.
will also continue to be linked to short and long-term financial and non-financial performance indicators under existing incentives.
The purpose of the LTIP is to align the interests of management with those of Shareholders in growing the value of the business The proposed maximum annual restricted share opportunity over the long term.
Although the Committee believes that the is setatalevel which broadly maintains the fair value of LTIP can still help achieve this objective, business and broader ExecutiveDirector remuneration, but which signicantly economic circumstances are now very different to those faced reducesmaximum realisable variable pay, and reduces afew years ago, and a policy which has the same EPS targets thevolatility in pay that we have seen at Aggreko over the last foreach cycle is no longer considered appropriate.
Additionally, the proposed holding period on the restricted share element will result in over 40% of the CEO and Like many companies with a diverse global footprint, Aggreko is CFOs variable remuneration not being realised until five years, susceptible to external factors impacting performance, and the compared to 20%underthecurrent structure.
Committee has been conscious of the difficulty in setting robust stretching and achievable long-term targets.
Going forward, Shareholding guidelines we will be guided by Aggrekos new overriding goal of growing To support shareholder alignment and ensure that Executive ahead of the markets in which we operate, at attractive margins Directors hold meaningful interests in Aggreko shares, the and returns.
The Committee alsobelieves in the business case Committee is proposing to double the personal shareholding forreducing maximum bonus and LTIP opportunities.
requirements from 200% to 400% of salary.
Executive Directors will be expected to achieve the guideline over a period of five The Committee proposes to reduce the maximum annual years, and will be expected to retain at least 50% of vested LTIPopportunity for Executive Directors from 300% to 200% incentives post-tax until such guidelines have been met.
Performance would continue to be measured against three-year underlying EPS and ROCE, with vested awards Pay reviews for 2017 post-tax releasedto participants in equal tranches after three, There have been no salary increases for Executive Directors fourand veyears.
Threshold vesting would be 25% of the fortwoyears and none are proposed for 2017. maximum award under eachelement, in line with market In conclusion practice.
The introduction of restricted shares will ease the Notwithstanding current economic and market headwinds, difficulty withsetting robust targets, promote Shareholder Aggrekos priority remains delivering sustainable profit alignment, andincentivise participants to make the necessary growth for the long term.
We plan to achieve this by focusing changes todrive value over the nextve years.
on customers, technology and efficiency, underpinned by The Committee will set both the EPS growth targets and continuing investment in our people capability.
We have the ROCE targets for future awards each year.
The EPS range exciting projects and developments in all these areas, and will is expressed as a nominal growth rate over the three-year continue to communicate these to Shareholders as we progress.
performance period, while the ROCE target is an absolute value, The Committee sees the proposed remuneration arrangements tobe delivered in the final year of the three-year plan.
as prudent at this stage in Aggrekos evolution, in this critical transition year, and an important contribution to maintaining In respect of the 2017 awards, the Committee is proposing thefocus on short and long-term targets, and retaining the anaverage nominal EPS growth performance range of 5% talentwe need to deliver attractive Shareholder value growth.
For ROCE the Committee is proposing a nalyear ROCE performance range of between 15% and 20%.
Restricted shares The Committee proposes to introduce annual awards of restricted sharesof up to 75% of salary to Executive Directors, complementing the 150% of salary reduction in annual bonus andLTIP.
It is intended that restricted shares normally vest based on continued employment within the Group over a period of threeyears, at which time the shares will be owned by the Executive Directors, but will not normally be released until a further two years after vesting a total period of five years.
The Committee will also retain discretion to reduce or withhold awards in exceptional circumstances to ensure payandperformance remain aligned.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 99 Policy report This section of our report describes each component of Aggrekos remuneration policy for Directors and has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
Subject to approval at the AGM, this policy will replace the current policy whichwasapproved byShareholders at the 2015 AGM and is expected to apply for threeyearsfrom 27 April 2017.
Aggrekos proposed new remuneration policy for Executive Directors Fixed pay BASE SALARY BENEFITS PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY To attract and retain talent by ensuring base salaries are Designed to be competitive in the market in which the individual competitive in the talent market s relevant to each individual.
Expatriate and relocation packages designed to ensure a geographically mobile management population related We aim to pay the market median for standard performance to business needs.
andwithin the market top quartile for top quartile performance, or to recruit outstanding candidates.
OPERATION OPERATION Includes healthcare benets, life assurance cover, a company car or an allowance in lieu.
Where appropriate, we would provide Base salaries are generally reviewed annually: in determining the an expatriate package, including bearing the cost of any local appropriate level of adjustment, we take into account: Company taxes payable on any expatriate benets, relocation costs, living performance: the individuals responsibilities and contribution allowances and school fees.
The Company will also bear any UK to the business: salary levels for comparable roles at relevant tax that Executive Directors resident overseas incur asa result of comparators: and salary increases more broadly across the Group.
carrying out their duties in the UK.
For the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer, Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon thebenchmark we use is the 20 companies either side of can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Aggrekoin the FTSE based on the average market capitalisation over the previous 12 months.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benets which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
If we were to appoint other Executive Directors we would use a similar benchmarking approach but supplemented by market OPPORTUNITY data from our advisers.
This recognises that comparability is harderto gauge and less formulaic for these roles.
Benets vary by role and local practice, and are reviewed periodically relative to market.
OPPORTUNITY Benets excluding travel and related taxes payable to Executive Any base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome Directors did not exceed 10% of salary during the most recent ofthe annual review.
In line with market practice, it is not anticipated that The Chief Executive officer will have the highest base salary in normal circumstances the cost of benets provided will exceed of all Executive Directors, and the maximum salary for the this level over the next three years.
ChiefExecutive officer may be within the top quartile of The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost ChiefExecutive officer salaries for the FTSE -20 comparators.
inexceptional circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed PERFORMANCE METRICS materially e. g. increases in insurance premiums, provider costs None, although continued good performance is a factor or taxes.
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY To provide relevant statutory benets and be competitive inthemarket in which the individual is employed.
OPERATION All Executive Directors are entitled to a dened-contribution pension.
They can opt to take a cash payment in lieu of all or partof their pension.
OPPORTUNITY Contributions of between 20% and 30% of salary per annum except where limited by local practice.
For new hires, the pension contribution will be up to 20% of salary per annum.
100 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Policy report continued Variable pay ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY To focus Executive Directors on achieving demanding To align the interests of management with those of Shareholders annualtargets relating to Company performance.
in growing the value of the business over the long term.
The key changes proposed by the Committee with regard Vesting of awards is subject to performance conditions based on toAnnual Bonus are set out on page 97. the long-term financial performance of the Group: the value of the awards is based on both the proportion vesting i. e. the Companys financial performance and the movement inthe share price over OPERATION the vesting period.
Performance measures and targets are set at the start of the year The key changes proposed by the Committee with regard to the and are weighted to reect the balance of Group, and where LTIP are set out on pages 97 and 98. appropriate business unit, responsibilities for each executive.
At the end of the year, the Committee determines the extent OPERATION to which these have been achieved.
The Committee has The LTIP comprises a single Performance Share Plan PSP.
the ability to exercise discretion to adjust for factors outside management control.
Awards are normally granted annually.
Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed from time to time to ensure Bonus payments will be paid in cash.
they remain appropriate and aligned withShareholder interests.
Malus and or clawback provisions apply as described on page 102.
Awards normally vest after three years, subject to performance and continued ofce or employment.
A proportion of shares OPPORTUNITY which vest will be subject to a further retention period of up to two years, with one-third being released post-tax on vesting The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors anda further third being released after each of one and two years is125% of salary.
The financial element of the bonuses start to fromvesting.
The holding period will end early on a takeover, beearned for threshold performance for which 25%of target scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, upon the bonus is paid, rising ona straight-line to deliver 50% of maximum death ofan individual or in exceptional circumstances on such for on-budget performance.
other date determined by the Committee.
On vesting, participants will be entitled to the equivalent of any dividends on the shares PERFORMANCE METRICS between grant and vesting or the earlier of the date ofexercise Performance is assessed annually with 20% of the maximum ofan option and the expiry of any holding period.
bonus potential based on personal strategic objectives aligned Malus and or clawback provisions apply to awards as described to the Companys KPIs and 80% on challenging budget and onpage 102. stretch targets for Group and business unit financial performance.
The current measure for financial performance is EPS, but may OPPORTUNITY vary each year depending on business context and strategy.
All measures will be weighted appropriately according to business The PSP provides for a nil-cost conditional award of shares priorities, with generally more weighting on earnings growth worthup to an aggregate limit of 200% of salary per annum than other factors.
The personal strategic objectives, accounting forExecutive Directors.
for 20% of the annual bonus, have previously covered customer service, safety and internal leadership and are quantied wherever PERFORMANCE METRICS possible.
If the personal strategic objectives are achieved but The performance measures for the PSP are based on Group EPSis below threshold performance, then the Committee hasthe performance.
For 2017 it is proposed to use Earnings per Share discretion to reduce, if appropriate to zero, the personal strategic andReturn on Capital Employed.
The targets are set by the element that would otherwise have been paid.
Further details of the performance measures proposed for The Committee retains discretion to modify the LTIP outcome the 2017 annual bonus are set out in the Annual report on in circumstances where strict application of the performance remuneration on page 112. conditions would produce a result inconsistent with our remuneration principles, where the formulaic outcome does not genuinely reect the underlying performance of the Company, orwhere necessary to avoid unintended consequences.
Any material upward discretion would be subject to prior consultation with the Companys major Shareholders.
The Committee also retains discretion to includeadditional or alternative performance measures, weightings and or targets in future years to take account of the Companys key strategic and operational aims and targets, and business outlook at that time.
Further details of LTIP award sizes and targets proposed for 2017 are provided intheAnnual report on remuneration on page 113.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 101 Other RESTRICTED SHARES NEW FOR 2017 SHARESAVE PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY To align the interests of management with those of Shareholders To align the interests of employees and Shareholders by in protecting and growing the value of the business over the encouraging all employees to own Aggreko shares.
longterm and provide a clear link between absolute Shareholder returns and realised reward.
OPERATION Vesting of awards is subject to continued employment over a This is an all-employee scheme whereby all eligible employees period of three years with vested shares post-tax being released including Executive Directors invited by the Board to participate to participants a further two years after vesting.
Shares will vest at may save up to 500 or local currency equivalent per month a value that recognises the dividends that would have accrued to over a period of two to five years.
Higher monthly savings may them duringthe three-year vesting period and in respect of shares bepermitted in line with any changes to the statutory limits held under an option until the earlier of the date of exercise and applying to UK SAYE share option schemes.
the expiry of the holding period.
Options under the Sharesave Option Schemes and the The vesting of awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, USStockPurchase Plan are granted at a discount of 20% besubject to the satisfaction of a general underpin.
The key elements proposed by the Committee with regard OPPORTUNITY toawards of restricted shares under our new Restricted Share Plan RSP are set out on pages 97 and 98.
Savings currently capped at 500 a month or local currency equivalent.
Higher savings may be permitted in line with the OPERATION statutory limit for UK schemes.
Award levels will be reviewed from time to time to ensure they PERFORMANCE METRICS remain appropriate and aligned with Shareholder interests.
The shares which vest will after the deduction of any tax normally be subject to a further retention period of two years.
The holding period will end early on a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, upon thedeath of an individual or in exceptional circumstances on such other date determined by the Committee.
On vesting participants will be entitled to the equivalent of any dividends on the shares between grant and vesting and in respect of shares held under an option until the earlier of the date of exercise and the expiry of the holding period.
The vesting of awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, also be subject to the satisfaction of a general underpin.
The Committee will have discretion to decide that awards shouldnot vest or only partially vest in exceptional circumstances, including in the event that the total annual dividend is less than the total dividend declared in respect of the immediately preceding financial year, or the Company has breached its net debt EBITDA covenant as set out in its banking facilities, at the end of the financial year.
Other exceptional circumstances if relevant would be the subject of consideration at the time of vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards as described onpage 102.
OPPORTUNITY The RSP provides for a nil-cost conditional award of shares toExecutive Directors worth up to an aggregate limit of 75%ofsalary per annum.
PERFORMANCE METRICS A general underpin may be applied at the discretion of the Committee.
Note: RSP awards can only be made up to a maximum limit of 75%ofsalary for Executive Directors, but up to 100% and200%inexceptional circumstances for other employeesasdetailed on page 104.
102 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Policy report continued PAYMENTS FROM OUTSTANDING AWARDS AMOUNT TO BE SUBJECT TO MALUS CLAWBACK Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payment Where malus clawback applies as a result of a misstatement or under any contractual arrangement agreed prior to the error, the amount will generally be based on the additional value approval andimplementation of the remuneration policy, which the Committee considers has been granted to, vested in, i. e. before 27 April2017.
In particular, they will be entitled to or received by the relevant individual as a result of the relevant receiveany awards vesting under the incentive arrangements misstatement or error.
Where the malus clawback applies for any included in the remuneration policy approved at the Companys other reason, it will be the amount that the Committee decides 2015 Annual General Meeting.
PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION AND SATISFACTION OF CLAWBACK APPROACH TO TARGET SETTING The Committee has wide discretion in deciding how any clawback will be satisfied, including: The measures used under the Annual Bonus Scheme reect the Companys key financial objectives for the year.
The Committee reducing the amount of any future bonus which would considers that EPS used in both the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP otherwise be payable: is an objective and well-accepted measure of the Companys reducing the extent to which any subsisting awards under the performance which reinforces the strategic objective of achieving LTIP and RSP vest: profitable growth.
reducing the extent to which subsisting awards under any other Targets for the Annual Bonus Scheme are tied to the Annual share incentive plan vest: Budgets set by the Board and have due regard to external reducing the number of any deferred bonus shares and forecasts.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but LTIP awards which have vested and so are no longer subject achievable and take into account the economic environment to performance conditions but are subject to post-vesting in a given year.
Generally, bonuses will start to be earned at deferral provisions: performance levels of 10% below Budget, with a straight-line to Budget, and then increase on a straight-line until they reach requiring the relevant individual to pay the amount of clawback capped levels, which will generally be around 15% above Budget.
to the Company: and deducting the amount from the relevant individuals salary Under the LTIP, Group D-EPS is complemented by ROCE to orfrom any other payment to be made by the Company.
reect the need to balance growth and returns.
Targets applying to the LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of If the relevant individual is required to repay any additional value, internal and external reference points to ensure they remain the Committee may consider whether that amount should take appropriately stretching.
into account any income tax and national insurance contributions or their equivalent paid by the relevant individual and any The Committee also retains discretion to includeadditional or possibility of him reclaiming such income tax and national alternative performance measures, weightings and or targets in insurance contributions.
future years to take account of the Companys key strategic and operational aims and targets, and business outlook at that time.
MALUS AND CLAWBACK Payments and awards under the Annual Bonus Scheme, Long-term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Plan are subjecttomalus and clawback as described below.
The Committee has discretion to decide at any time prior to the third anniversary of the date of payment of a bonus or the vesting of an award under theLTIP and RSP that the relevant individual shall be subject tomalus clawback if: the Committee forms the view that the Company materially misstated its financial results for whatever reason: or the Committee forms the view that in assessing any Performance Condition and or any other condition imposed onthe bonus or award such assessment was based on an error, or on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions: or the relevant individual ceases to be a Director or employee of Aggreko as a result of gross misconduct or the Committee is ofthe view that the relevant individual could have been summarily dismissed by reason of his gross misconduct: or any other circumstance s or event s arise which the Committee considers to be sufciently exceptional to justify the operation ofmalus clawback.
Clawback in exceptional circumstances is anew feature to the Policy.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 103 Aggrekos remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors and Chairman INCENTIVES AND BENEFITS FOR Non-executive Directors  AND CHAIRMAN PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY Non-executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate inincentive arrangements or receive other remuneration To attract and retain Non-executive Directors with an appropriate in addition to their fees.
However, where appropriate the degree of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company may provide additional benets in kind for example, Company and its business.
reimbursement of travel costs and taxes thereon, which are not expected toexceed 20% of the annual fee in any year.
OPERATION APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION Fee levels for Non-executive Directors are generally reviewed by the Board annually.
Remuneration comprises an annual fee for The Companys approach to remuneration for newly appointed acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as a member of Directors is identical to that for existing Directors.
As a matter of any Committees.
Additional fees are paid in respect of service practicality, we recognise that it may be necessary to pay within aschairman of a committee or as Senior Independent Director.
the market top quartile salaries in order to attract candidates When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same of the quality the business needs.
New Executive Directors will be invited to participate in incentive plans on the same basis comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of as existing Executive Directors.
However, the Committee may alter the performance measures, performance period, reference theduties performed and the size of the Company.
salary and vesting period of the annual bonus, LTIP or RSP, subject to the rules of the plans, if the Committee determines OPPORTUNITY that the circumstances of the recruitment merit the alteration.
Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the The Committee will explain the rationale for any such changes.
Currently the maximum aggregate annual Where appropriate the Company will offer to pay reasonable fee forall Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, relocation expenses for new Executive Directors in line with providedin the Companys articles of association is 900,000. theCompanys policies described above.
It is not the Companys policy to offer sign-on payments, but PERFORMANCE METRICS where the Remuneration Committee considers it is necessary to do so in order to recruit a particular individual, it may offer None.
compensation for amounts of variable remuneration foregone, provided the fair value is no greater.
In doing so, the Committee Chairman will consider all relevant factors including time to vesting, delivery vehicle cash vs. shares vs. options, any performance PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY conditions attached to the awards and the likelihood of the conditions beingmet.
In order to facilitate such compensation, To attract and retain a Chairman to provide effective leadership the Committee may rely on the exemption contained in Listing forthe Board.
2, which allows for the grant of awards in exceptional circumstances to facilitate the recruitment of a Director.
OPERATION Where the Company is considering the promotion of senior Remuneration for the Chairman comprises an annual fee for management to the Board, the Committee may, at its discretion, acting as Chairman, and serving as Chairman or as a member agree that any commitments made before promotion will of any Committees.
The Remuneration Committee sets the continue to be honoured whether or not consistent with the Chairmans remuneration, subject to review when appropriate.
policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fullled.
When reviewing fees, reference is made to fees for the same In recruiting a new Non-executive Director, the Remuneration comparator group as used for Executive Directors, information Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on this provided by a number of remuneration surveys, the extent of page.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would theduties performed and the size of the Company.
be payable for acting as a Non-executive Director and serving as a member of any Committees, with additional fees payable for OPPORTUNITY acting as Chairman of a Committee or as Senior Independent Director.
In recruiting a new Chairman of the Board, the fee Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome offeredwould be inclusive of serving on any Committees.
Currently the maximum aggregate annualfeeforall Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, providedin the Companys articles of association is900,000.
104 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Policy report continued PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE: SCENARIO ANALYSIS Potential reward opportunities illustrated on this page are based on theproposed new policy we are asking Shareholders The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future to approve, applied to the base salary in force at 1 January 2017. reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially split between the different elements of remuneration under receivable in respect of performance for 2017.
It should be noted three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target that the LTIP and RSP awards granted in a year do not normally andMaximum.
vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The projected Chris Weston value of LTIP and RSP amounts excludes theimpactof share price movement.
In illustrating potential reward opportunities Maximum 25% 14% 23% 38% 4,000k theassumptions in the table below are made.
On-target 42% 23% 19% 16% 2,406k Minimum 64% 36% 1,563k Carole Cran Maximum 26% 14% 23% 37% 2,227k On-target 43% 23% 19%15% 1,351k 65% 35% 888k Minimum 39% 0 1 million 2 million 3 million 4 million Salary, pension, benets Restricted shares Annual bonus LTIP ASSUMPTIONS FOR POTENTIAL FUTURE REWARD OPPORTUNITIES Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP RSP Latest base pay, pension Performance warrants Maximum Maximum annual bonus Full vesting and ongoing benets full vesting Latest base pay, pension Performance warrants Target On target annual bonus Full vesting and ongoing benets 25% of maximum vesting Latest base pay, pension Threshold not achieved, Minimum No annual bonus Full vesting and ongoing benets so no amount vesting measurements, although as members of the Board they receive CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS the results of the Companys periodical employee satisfaction During 2016, we consulted with our Shareholders on the survey which includes questions covering remuneration.
proposedchanges to our Remuneration Policy.
The new remuneration policy reects the results of these consultations.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENT The Committee also receives regular updates on the views of FOR LOSS OF OFFICE investors and corporate governance matters.
This ensures that It is the Companys policy to provide for 12 months notice for best practice principles are taken account of by the Committee termination of employment for Executive Directors, to be given toassist them with their decision making.
For Executive Directors who have been newly recruited from outside the Group, the period would normally We welcome an open dialogue with Shareholders and besix months, increasing to 12 months after 12 months service.
willcontinue to consult with major Shareholders before implementing any significant changes to the Remuneration Policy.
The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements: if the EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE Company believes it appropriate to protect its interests, it may INTHE COMPANY also make additional payments in exchange for non-compete The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of non-solicitation terms which are above and beyond those in the senior executives below the Board is broadly consistent with Directors contract of employment.
Typically, these will serve to that for the Executive Directors.
Our senior executive population extend the non-compete period for up to three years from the will be invited to participate in the LTIP and new RSP, at varying date of termination.
The Committee has discretion to contribute percentage levels of salary under the LTIP.
Different award levels towards outplacement services and the legal fees for any of up to 100% of salary 200% in exceptional circumstances may departing Director to the extent it considers appropriate.
apply below Board under the RSP.
This would be on a case by case Under normal circumstances, the Company may terminate the basis, typically as part of a retention package or to compensate employment of an Executive Director by making a payment in for lost long-term incentives on recruitment of a senior executive.
lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benets for the notice RSP awards may also vest earlier or later than the third period at the rate current at the date of termination.
In case anniversary of grant and may be subject to a shorter holding of gross misconduct, a provision is included in the Executives period or no holding period.
contract for immediate dismissal with no compensation payable.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee Copies of the service contracts of the Executive Directors and also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere copies of the letters of appointment of the Non-executive in the Group, and is informed of changes to broader employee Directors are available for inspection at the registered ofce pay.
The Remuneration Committee does not specically consult ofthe Company.
with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy or use any remuneration comparison Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 105 TREATMENT OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVE Options held under the Sharesave plans will vest and become AWARDSAND OPTIONS ON TERMINATION exercisable in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan OFEMPLOYMENT AND CORPORATE EVENTS andthe governing legislation to the extent applicable upon UNDERTHE LTIP AND RSP cessation of employment or the occurrence of a Corporate Event.
In the event an Executive Director leaves for reasons of death, The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the which it considers fair and reasonable, to satisfy any existing legal agreement of the Company, or their employing company obligation and or to settle any claim for damages or by way of or business ceasing to be a member or undertaking of the settlement or compromise of any claim arising on or as a result Grouporother such event as the Committee determines of termination.
thegood leaver reasons, then awards held for less than one year will normally lapse.
The Committee may determine that TREATMENT OF ANNUAL BONUS ON TERMINATION the circumstances are, in its opinion, sufciently exceptional in OF EMPLOYMENT AND CORPORATE EVENTS which case an award mayvest to the extent determined by the The Committee has discretion to determine that in the event Committee having regard to the performance conditions in the anExecutive Director leaves the Company, bonus payments case of an LTIP award and the period during which the participant maybe paid once performance has been measured and on was employed and subject to any other additional terms and apro-rated basis for the time spent in active employment with conditions that the Committee may determine.
LTIP and RSP awards held by a good leaver for at least one year willnormally be pro-rated for time and will vest on the normal SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES vesting date.
The Committee has discretion to allow an award The Committee has a policy of encouraging Executive Directors to vest on a date following cessation based in the case of LTIP toacquire and retain a material number of shares in the Company, awards on performance overthe original performance period with the objective of further aligning their long-term interests orif the award vests early oncessation, a curtailed performance with those of other Shareholders.
The minimum requirement for period asdetermined bythe Committee.
Executive Directors is currently 200% of salary.
The Committee For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP and RSP awards will proposes to increase this to 400% of salary.
Shares that count towards achieving these guidelines include: Upon the occurrence of a takeover, change of control pursuant shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director or by toa scheme of arrangement or winding-up a Corporate Event, aconnected person, as recognised by the Committee: LTIP and RSP awards held for less than one year will normally lapse unless either they are released and exchanged for deferred bonus shares and LTIP awards which have vested equivalent awards on an internal reorganisation or reconstruction.
andso are no longer subject to performance conditions The Committee may determine that the circumstances are, butaresubject to post-vesting deferral provisions: and initsopinion, sufciently exceptional in which case an award may shares held under any restricted stock plan or any plan vest to the extent determined by the Committee having regard, established under Listing Rule 9.4.
2. in thecase of LTIP awards, to the performance conditions and Executive Directors are expected to build their shareholding subject to any other additional terms and conditions that the overave-year period retaining at least 50% of vested incentives Committee may determine.
post-tax until such guidelines have been met, but are not Awards granted at least 12 months prior to the date of the required to make personal share purchases if awards do not vest Corporate Event will vest to the extent in the case of LTIP awards through failing to meet performance conditions.
For example, only that, in the opinion of the Committee, the Performance a newly-appointed Director may not reach the required level Conditions have been satisfied at that time or would have been within the period, depending on the Companys performance satisfied were it not for the relevant Corporate Event.
against target over the period.
If so, the Committee will review thecircumstances and agree anappropriate forward plan.
Awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, vest early on ademerger to the extent in the case of LTIP awards only that, The Committee retains the discretion to grant dispensation in the opinion of the Committee, the Performance Conditions fromthese requirements in exceptional circumstances.
have been satisfied at that time or would have been satisfied There is no particular requirement for Non-executive Directors andsubject to any other additional terms and conditions that the to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a holding Committee may determine.
Awards will normally be exchanged over time.
for new awards on an internal reorganisation or reconstruction unless the Committee allow them to vest on the basis which Directors shareholdings are included in the table in the would apply on a takeover.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the extent to which and PERIOD FOR POLICY the date when awards vest on a case by case basis, following a review of circumstances, to ensure fairness for both Shareholders The policy is intended to take effect from 27 April 2017, being and participants.
The Committee also retains the discretion to thedate of the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting.
vary the number of shares and or exercise price of options and The Committee is satisfied that the proposed new remuneration awards on or following any variation to the Companys share policy is in the best interests of Shareholders and does not capital or upon the payment of a special dividend or demerger promote excessive risk-taking.
The Committee retains discretion inaccordance with the rules of the relevant plan.
to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to Shareholders.
106 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual report on remuneration In the following section of our report, we explain how we have implemented Aggrekos remuneration policy during 2016.
The policyinplace for the year was the one which was approved by Shareholders at Aggrekos 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Briefdetails of all elements other than variable pay are given above on pages 99 and 103.
The policy in place for the year for variable pay is different from the proposed new policy set out on pages 100 and 101, which we are asking Shareholders to approve in April 2017.
The changes between the two relate to the amendment to the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements we plan to introduce.
These changes are explained on pages 97 and 98.
We have given brief details of the previous policy for variable pay below, but full details of all elements of the policy can be found in Aggrekos 2014 Report and Accounts, pages 98 to 104, which is available onour website at ir.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED The table below sets out a single gure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the years ended 31 December 2016 and31 December 2015.
2 Nicola Brewers remuneration for 2016 is from date of appointment, 25 February 2016.
3 Uwe Kruegers remuneration for 2015 is from date of appointment, 1 February 2015.
4 Robert MacLeods remuneration for 2016 is to date of resignation as a Director, 28 April 2016.
5 Owing to the significant amount of time spent in London, based on UK legislation, Carole Cran has established a second place of employment in London.
6 As explained in Note 5 above, Carole Crans home to London ofce travel costs either reimbursed, or paid on Caroles behalf are taxable.
The 2015 amount has been restatedto include travel costs of 4,188 and associated taxes of 12,343 relating to 2015 but which were processed in 2016.
7 As explained on page 89 of our Annual Report 2015, Chris Weston was granted an award of shares on 30 March 2015.
50% of the shares were released on 1 April 2016 atotalof 63,979 shares.
Chris Weston was entitled to a further 1,631 shares equivalent to the dividends on the shares between grant and vesting.
The value is based on theshare price on 1 April 2016 of 1077 pence.
8 As set out on page 97 of our Annual Report 2014, Chris Weston received an amount of 483,392 to compensate him for his annual bonus from his previous employer heforfeited as a result of his resignation.
This was paid as 75% in cash and the balance in Aggreko shares.
The shares are shown in the table of Directors shareholdings onpage 110.
The gures have been calculated as follows: Base salary fees: amount earned for the year.
Benets: the taxable value of benets received in the year.
Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
See Annual bonus scheme on pages 107 and 108.
2016 remuneration for LTIPs refers to share awards granted on 16 April 2014 subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2016 and which are due to vest on16 April2017.
The value is based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 859 pence.
See Long-term Incentive Plan on pages 108 and 109.
2015 remuneration for LTIPs refers to share awards granted on 5 August 2013 subject to a performance period ended 31 December 2015 which vested on 5 August 2016.
Thevalue is based on the share price on 5 August 2016 of 1071 pence.
Sharesave: the value is based on the market price of an Aggreko share on the date of grant, less the option price, multiplied by the number of options.
Pension: the amount of any Company pension contributions and cash in lieu.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 107 Base salary The base salaries for Executive Directors as at 1 January 2017, 1 January 2016 and 1 January 2015 were as follows: 1 January 1 January 1 January 1 2017 Increase 2016 Increase 2015 Executive Director Position % % Carole Cran Chief Financial officer 412,000 0 412,000 0 412,000 Chris Weston Chief Executive officer 750,000 0 750,000 0 750,000 1 The increase across the Group for 2016 was 7.4%.
There have been no salary increases for Executive Directors for two years and none are proposed for 2017.
Benets Chris Weston received healthcare benets: Carole Cran did not receive any healthcare benets.
Both Executive Directors were also provided with life assurance cover, income protection, accident insurance and a car allowance.
Carole Cran received reimbursement ofthe cost of travelling to the London ofce and associated taxes.
The following table shows those benets that the Committee considers significant: Car fuel Travel Tax Other Total Executive Director 1 Carole Cran 12,000 36,460 32,335 3,452 84,247 Chris Weston 12,000 13,035 25,035 1 Owing to the significant amount of time spent in London, based on UK legislation, Carole Cran has established a second place of employment in London.
Annual bonus scheme The maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 for both Executive Directors was 175% of salary.
Bonus payments are payable as to 75% in cash, and as to 25% deferred into shares for three years unless, at the discretion of the Committee, the individual leaves with the Companys consent.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares that canvest in the event of gross misconduct or material misstatement of the accounts.
The targets under the 2016 annual bonus scheme were based as to 80% on financial performance measures set against the annual budget at the start of the year and as to 20% against personal strategic objectives.
Financial performance measures The financial objectives for the Chief Executive officer Chris Weston and the Chief Financial officer Carole Cran were measured asto75% against D-EPS and as to 25% against operating cash ow.
For these financial measures, Executive Directors would start to earn a bonus at threshold performance, calculated as a percentage below budget, increasing to half of the maximum that could be earned under that element at budget on a straight-line basis.
The bonus would then increase on a straight-line basis to the maximum, calculated as a percentage above budget.
The table below shows the performance against budget of each of the financial performance measures used for calculating the AnnualBonus for 2016: Measure Threshold Budget Maximum Outcome % maximum % budget % budget % budget of element 1 D-EPS growth 56.51p 95 59.48p 65.43p 110 49.74p 84 0 1 Operating cash ow 468.4m 90 520.44m 572.48m 110 333.1m 64 0 1 The reported D-EPS and operating cash ow have been adjusted to a constant currency basis.
108 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual report on remuneration continued Personal strategic performance measures Each Director was set three personal objectives, which included measurable improvements in safety indicators and agreed outcomes for set strategic objectives specic to their roles.
Against each of these personal objectives he or she could achieve the maximum bonus entitlements detailed in the table below 35% of salary in total.
Chris Westons objectives included delivery of the Aggreko 18 initiatives with a particular focus on technology and cost procurement savings.
Carole Crans objectives included developing a risk management framework and working with the business finance leads to tightly manage cost.
The Committee reviewed performance against these measures for each Director, and the table below shows the Committees assessment of each personal strategic objective achieved as a percentage ofsalary.
Personal strategic objective achieved as a percentage of salary Risk Management Cost Leadership Safety framework Management Development Aggreko 18 Total Executive Director % % % % % % Carole Cran 41111 26 maximum % achievable 71414 35 Chris Weston 8.5 5 13.5 27 maximum % achievable 10.5 7 17.5 35 The table below sets out the total bonus entitlement for each Executive Director for 2016: 1 D-EPS growth Operating cash ow Personal objectives Total payable Total Max Max Max max bonus bonus Outcome bonus Outcome bonus Outcome Executive Director % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary % salary Carole Cran 175 105 0 35 0 35 26 26 107,120 Chris Weston 175 105 0 35 0 35 27 27 202,500 1 The total bonus includes the 25% deferred shares element.
Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP awards which are due to vest on 16 April 2017 were granted in 2014 under the old LTIP, which expired in 2014.
The old LTIP consists of two distinct elements: the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Co-investment Plan CIP.
The PSP is a nil-cost conditional award of shares which vest depending on performance against the targets: it provides for annual awards of performance shares up to an aggregate limit of 100% of salary in normal circumstances and 200% of salary inexceptional circumstances.
The CIP is a Co-investment plan, whose purpose it is to encourage executives to buy and hold shares in the Company.
Participants cansubscribe to purchase Aggreko shares up to a value of 30% of their salary, each year that they are invited to join the CIP: if they hold those shares for three years or, if earlier, the date that their CIP award vests, they will be entitled to receive a minimum award of one share for every two they subscribed the Minimum Match, plus a performance related award of a further three shares forevery two theysubscribed.
The Minimum Match is not subject to performance conditions.
The PSP and CIP are both measured against performance over three financial years and they share the same performance criteria.
These are the real compound annual growth rate of Diluted Earnings per Share D-EPS, and Return on Capital Employed ROCE.
The performance criteria for the LTIP awards granted in 2014 were as follows: 75% of the award was based on CPI ination-adjusted compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period in a range of 3% to 10%.
No performance shares would be awarded against this element if performance wasbelow 3% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at 10% growth: and 25% of the award was based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 20% to 25%.
No performance shares wouldbe awarded against this element if performance was below 20% and awards would increase straight-line to the maximum at25% ROCE.
In addition to the above, and to reward truly exceptional performance, the number of shares awarded to participants in both elements of the 2014 LTIP might be increased by between one and two times if the real compound annual growth in D-EPS over the three-year performance measurement period was in a range of 10% to 20%.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 109 The performance period for the 2014 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2016.
Over the period: Aggrekos aggregate D-EPS was 217.6 pence, which is the equivalent of no growth.
Since this was less than the threshold of 3%, noshares will vest under this performance measure: and Aggrekos actual average ROCE for the period was 16%.
Since this was less than the threshold of 20%, no shares will vest under this performance measure.
Accordingly, only the Minimum Match will vest.
The table below shows: the resulting vesting of the 2014 LTIP awards for Carole Cran.
These are due to vest in April 2017: and by way of comparison the vesting of the 2013 LTIP awards which vested in August 2016.
Performance Share Plan Co-Investment Plan Market price Value Market price Value Total value Executive Director Year of grant Vested Vested Carole Cran 2014 1,880 859p 16,149 16,149 Carole Cran 2013 1,689 1071p 18,089 18,089 Carole Crans 2014 LTIP awards were granted on 16 April 2014.
Carole Crans 2013 LTIP awards were granted on 5 August 2013 and vested on 5 August 2016.
The value of the 2014 LTIP on vesting is based on the average price of Aggreko shares over the last quarter of 2016 of 859 pence.
The value of the 2013 LTIP on vesting is based on the market price of Aggreko shares on date of vesting, 5 August 2016, of 1071 pence.
Pensions Executive Directors participate in pension schemes or receive cash in lieu with a value appropriate to the median practice in their country.
Carole Cran is a member of the Aggreko Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a dened contribution scheme.
Chris Weston is entitled to a Company contribution of 30% and Carole Cran is entitled to a Company contribution of 20% of salary, but she may elect to take all or part of the Company contribution in the form of a cash payment in lieu.
Contributions paid by the Company under the dened contribution plans during the year are as follows: 2016 2015 Paid to Paid to pension Paid cash Total pension Paid cash Total Executive Director Carole Cran 18,665 63,735 82,400 37,340 45,060 82,400 Chris Weston 225,000 225,000 225,000 225,000 Non-executive Directors including the Chairman The Board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees for the Non-executive Directors, within the limits set out in the Articlesof Association.
The Remuneration Committee recommends remuneration policy and level of fees for the Chairman of the Board although the Chairman of the Board does not take part in discussions concerning his remuneration.
Remuneration comprises an annual fee for acting as a Chairman or Non-executive Director of the Company.
Additional fees are paid to Non-executive Directors in respect of service as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and as Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, retirement benets or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
The Chairmans fee has not increased since April 2015 and the fees for the Non-executive Directors have not increased sinceJuly 2015.
The fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors as at 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2016 were as follows: 1 January 2017 Increase 1 January 2016 Role % Chairman fee 342,000 0 342,000 Non-executive Director base fee 61,000 0 61,000 Committee Chairman additional fee 20,000 0 20,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 20,000 0 20,000 110 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual report on remuneration continued SHARE AWARDS GRANTED IN 2016 AUDITED In May 2016, Executive Directors were granted awards of shares under the 2015 Long-term Incentive Plan, in each case with a value equivalent to 300% of salary.
The three-year performance period over which D-EPS and ROCE performance will be measured began on1 January 2016 and will end on 31 December 2018.
None of the awards granted under the LTIP are eligible to vest until 9 May 2019.
The performance criteria for the LTIP awards granted in 2016 are as follows: 75% of the award is based on three-year cumulative D-EPS as compared to three-year compound growth in real RPI-adjusted D-EPS.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is below an equivalent of RPI 3% per annum growth.
Awards will then start to vest above that level and will increase straight-line to a maximum at an equivalent of RPI 15% perannum growth: and 25% of the award is based on average ROCE over the performance period in a range of 20% to 25%.
No performance shares will be awarded against this element if performance is less than 20% and awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 25% ROCE.
A proportion of shares which vest will be subject to a further retention period of up to two years in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
The table below shows details of interests awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP during 2016: % vesting 1 Face Value on minimum Executive Director Shares performance Carole Cran 114,976 1,235,992 Chris Weston 209,302 2,249,997 1 Face value of LTIP is the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance targets are met multiplied by the average market price over the five business days prior to the date of grant of 9 May 2016, which was used to determine the number of shares awarded, being 1075 pence.
ARRANGEMENTS WITH PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED Vesting of LTIP awards to former Executive Directors The table below shows awards to former Executive Directors which vested in 2016: Co-Investment Plan Market price on vesting date Value Former Executive Director Date of vesting Shares Debajit Das 5 August 2016 2,906 1067p 31,007 Debajit Das 19 October 2016 2,644 940p 24,854 David Taylor-Smith 23 May 2016 5,787 1164p 67,361 EXIT PAYMENTS There were no exit payments during the year.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED As at 31 December 2016, the shareholdings of the Directors were as follows: Shares Shares held Options held Proposed counting A Shares B Shares subject to not subject to shareholding towards Current owned held subject performance performance guidelines guidelines shareholding 1 2 3 4 Director outright to deferral conditions conditions % salary A B % salary Carole Cran 9,783 4,082 227,807 400 13,865 31 5 Chris Weston 34,773 71.715 348,534 2,168 400 106,488 130 Nicola Brewer 1,450 Ken Hanna 19,303 Russell King 3,688 Uwe Krueger 3,000 Diana Layeld 2,855 6 Robert MacLeod 18,582 Ian Marchant 3,331 1 This includes shares held by connected persons.
2 Shares held subject to performance comprise LTIP awards over shares.
3 Options held under the Sharesave Plan.
4 Percentage is calculated using a share price of 918 pence as at 31 December 2016.
Under the Companys share ownership guidelines, Executive Directors will have a period ofve years to achieve the shareholding guideline of not less than four times base salary.
5 Chris Westons holding comprises 63,979 of the shares awarded on 30 March 2015 the remainder of the shares awarded on 30 March 2015 were released on 1 April 2016 andare included in Column B and 25% of his annual bonus forfeited from his previous employer which was deferred into shares 7,736 shares, as set out on page 97 ofour2014 Report and Accounts.
6 Robert MacLeods holding is at date of resignation as a Director, 28 April 2016.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 111 There have been no changes in the Directors interests in Ordinary Shares between 31 December 2016 and 7 March 2017.
Carole Cran and Chris Weston, as employees of the Company, have an interest in the holdings of the Aggreko Employee benefit Trust the EBT as potential beneciaries.
The EBT is a trust established to distribute shares to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries in satisfaction of awards granted under the Aggreko Long-term Incentive Plans and Sharesave Schemes.
At 31 December 2016, thetrustees of the EBT held a total of 1,048,816 Aggreko plc Ordinary Shares 2014: 535,538 and the holding at thedate of this report is1,042,090.
The dividend has been waived on these shares.
COMPARISON OF COMPANY PERFORMANCE The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Aggrekos shares on 31 December 2008 compared withthe current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The FTSE 350 Index is chosen because Aggreko has beenaconstituent member of this group over the entire period.
Company performance 500 470 450 409 408 400 363 342 350 300 231 225 212 250 231 200 197 196 194 150 100 161 148 144 100 130 Aggreko 100 FTSE 350 Index 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 For comparative purposes, the remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive officer for the same financial years is set out below: Long-term incentive Single Figure of Annual Bonus payout vesting rates against Total Remuneration against maximum maximum opportunity Year CEO % % 2009 Rupert Soames 2,555,850 63.2 100 2010 Rupert Soames 5,839,209 100 100 2011 Rupert Soames 8,501,865 82.4 100 2012 Rupert Soames 2,685,840 6.4 100 2013 Rupert Soames 1,779,144 49.6 72.5 2014 Angus Cockburn 1,290,906 42.4 5.8 2015 Chris Weston 1,485,516 0 0 2016 Chris Weston 1,909,155 15 0 Angus Cockburn was Interim Chief Executive from 25 April to 30 September 2014, and his emoluments have been calculated on the assumption that he held the role for the full year at the rates of remuneration in place on 30 September 2014.
The 2015 gure for Chris Weston includes an amount of 483,392 to compensate him for his annual bonus from his previous employer he forfeited as a result of his resignation.
The 2016 gure includes an amount of 706,620 to compensate him for the forfeiture of long-term incentives from his previous employer.
The data for this table was taken from the Remuneration Reports for the relevant years and adjusted to take account of the actual shareprice on date of vesting for the LTIP.
112 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual report on remuneration continued PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO The table below shows the change in remuneration of the Chief Executive officer in comparison to the average change in remuneration of employees within the Group central functions over that period.
Year Percentage change for CEO Percentage change for Group central functions Salary fees 07.8 Benets 9.5 22.7 Bonus n m n m The comparator group relates to the employees within the Group central function in the UK 122 employees, rather than all Group employees.
As in the previous year, we have chosen this group because the Committee believes that it provides a sufciently large comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases, whilst reducing the distortion that would arise from including all of the many countries in which theGroup operates, with their different economic conditions.
Neither the CEO oremployees within the Group central function in the UK received a bonus in 2015 and therefore, the percentage change in bonus isnot meaningful.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The graph below shows Aggrekos profit after tax, pre-exceptional items, dividend, and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, and the percentage change.
profit after tax m Dividend m Total employee pay expenditure m 14% 1% 7% 16 158m 16 69m 16 355m 15 183m 15 70m 15 331m 0 100 200 300 400 0 100 200 300 400 0 100 200 300 400 Dividends are the interim and final dividends paid in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and the interim dividend paid and the final dividend recommended in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The total employee pay expenditure increase is due to year on year exchange rate movement.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2017 The Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2017 as follows: Base salaries and fees Base salaries for Executive Directors were reviewed by the Committee in December 2016: details are set out on page 107.
The Committee intends to next review the salaries in December 2017.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors willnextbereviewed in 2018.
Pensions and benets Pensions and benets will continue in line with policy.
Annual bonus The Committee set annual bonus targets for the Executive Directors as follows: Personal D-EPS objectives Total On-budget max bonus Max bonus bonus Max bonus Executive Director % salary % salary % salary % salary Carole Cran 125 100 50 25 Chris Weston 125 100 50 25 The personal objectives were set individually for each Director.
All include agreed outcomes for set strategic objectives specic to their roles.
We have not disclosed full details of all objectives or financial targets in this report, as we consider them to be commercially sensitive.
It is, however, our intention to disclose financial budget numbers in next years Annual report on remuneration.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 113 Long-term Incentive Plan Subject to the approval of the changes to the Long-term Incentive Plan by Shareholders at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Committee proposes to approve the grant of 2017 LTIP awards to Executive Directors with a face value of 200% of salary.
The performance criteria for the 2017 LTIP will be as follows: 75% of the award will be based on three-year D-EPS growth, with 25% of shares awarded against this element for D-EPS growth of 5% per annum.
Awards will then continue to vest above that level and will increase straight-line to a maximum for 12% per annum growth: and 25% of the award will be based on final year ROCE in the range of 15% to 20%, with 25% of shares awarded against this element if2019 ROCE is equal to 15%.
Awards will increase straight-line to the maximum at 20% ROCE in 2019.
The shares which vest will be released to participants in equal tranches after three, four and five years in accordance with the rulesofthe LTIP.
Awards are expected to be granted in May 2017 after the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Restricted Shares Subject to the approval of the new Restricted Share Plan RSP by Shareholders at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting, theCommittee proposes to approve the grant of 2017 RSP awards to Executive Directors with a face value of 75% of salary.
The shares will be released after five years, subject to continued employment over a three-year period or otherwise upon leaving theCompany as a good leaver.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO  The Committee re-appointed Kepler Associates, a brand of Mercer, as the principal external adviser to the Committee for 2016.
The feespaid to Kepler Associates in respect of work that materially assisted the Committee in 2016are shown in the table below: Fees paid by Services provided the Company Adviser Appointed by to the Committee for the Services Other Services Kepler Associates RussellKing Review of LTIP Award Calculations 78,960 Benchmarking of on behalf of Non-executive Director Advice on DRR disclosure Charged on a the Committee Fees and specic time cost basis below-Board roles Advice on current market practice Advice on remuneration Benchmarking of Executive pay forbelow-Board executives Advice on design of new incentive arrangements Except as provided above, Kepler Associates do not provide any other services to the Group.
They are a member of the  Group and a signatory to its code of conduct.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee is satisfied as tothe impartiality and objectivity of their advice.
They were also chosen because of their existing knowledge of the Groupsremuneration arrangements.
114 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual report on remuneration continued STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2015 Remuneration Report at the 28 April 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Report Total number of votes % of votes cast For 170,985,554 98.94 Against 1,826,364 1.06 Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 172,811,918 100 1 Votes withheld 1,519,590 Total votes cast including withheld votes 174,331,508 1 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
The Policy Report was last submitted to Shareholders at the 2015 AGM when 98.88% voted in favour.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Each of the Directors will be proposed for election or re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2017.
The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Aggreko plc.
The Remuneration Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors at 12 months or less.
The principal terms of the Executive Directors service contracts which have noxed term are as follows: Notice period Executive Director Position Effective date of contract From Director From Company Carole Cran Chief Financial officer 1 June 2014 12 months 12 months Chris Weston Chief Executive officer 2 January 2015 12 months 12 months Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject to three months notice from either party.
The dates of the Chairmans and Non-executive Directors appointments are as follows: Unexpired term Non-executive Director Position Effective date of contract as at 31 December 2016 Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director 25 February 2016 2 years 2 months 1 Ken Hanna Chairman 29 April 2015 1 year 4 months Barbara Jeremiah Non-executive Director 7 March 2017 n a 1 Russell King Non-executive Director 2 February 2015 1 month Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director 1 February 2015 1 year 1 month 1 Diana Layeld Non-executive Director 1 May 2015 1 year 4 months 1 Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 1 November 2016 2 years 10 months Miles Roberts Non-executive Director 7 March 2017 n a 1 Replaces earlier contract.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Directors are generally permitted to retain any earnings from these appointments.
During the year, Carole Cran was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Halma plc.
Fees for 2016 in relation to this appointment were 51,000.
Chris Weston did not hold any external directorships of other quoted companies.
This Report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Russell King Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2017
