ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENT BY CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Our Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at our 2016 AGM, was applied in 2016.
During the final quarter of 2016, the Remuneration Committee reviewed all of the elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management to assess whether the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2016 AGM was meeting its design objectives.
Based on this review and the application of the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee resolved that no further changes were necessary or appropriate, and the current Remuneration Policy will remain in effect.
The Work of the Remuneration Committee The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Mr. Rohr was present at all meetings during the year, and each of Mr. Davis and myself missed one meeting due to an unexpected or previously scheduled conflict.
I met several times during the final quarter of 2016 with members of senior management in order to review all elements of remuneration and their operation.
The Committee also received professional advice from Korn Ferry | Hay Group where appropriate.
A key objective of this review was to ensure the Remuneration Policy remained appropriate for a UK listed company, whilst also ensuring that it was designed to continue to attract and retain US-based management and employees of the highest calibre.
The programme is weighted toward rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time.
During the year, the key activities carried out by the Committee were: Conducted a review of all elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management: Reviewed feedback received from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services in connection with the adoption and implementation of the revised Remuneration Policy in 2016: In connection with the annual review of the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee resolved that no further changes were necessary or appropriate, and the current Remuneration Policy will remain in effect: Reviewed the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to ensure that it continues to advance the Committees policy to provide a competitive, performance-linked, long-term incentive mechanism to align the interests of management and shareholders: Determined the cash incentive bonus awards for the Executive Officers for the last financial year: Determined base salaries of the Executive Directors, for the period starting 1 January 2017: Issued LTIP awards on 9 May 2016: Reviewed progress against 2014, 2015 and 2016 LTIP award performance targets for the last financial year: Established 2015 and 2016 LTIP award performance targets for the current financial year: and Reviewed the remuneration reporting regulations in connection with the review of the Groups Remuneration Policy and preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy Pursuant to the current Remuneration Policy, the Committee focuses on simple and transparent market competitive remuneration and incentive schemes.
The current Remuneration Policy is designed to: 62 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED attract, retain and motivate high calibre US-based senior management, and to focus them on the delivery of the Companys long-term strategic and business objectives: promote a strong, fair and sustainable performance culture: incentivise growth and the achievement of milestones: align the interests of Executive Directors and members of the senior management team with those of shareholders through equity ownership: and be simple to understand and implement, and designed taking into account best practice guidelines for UK listed companies.
The key components of remuneration are set out in detail within the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Performance and Reward for 2016 As detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration, the Committee determined to provide cash incentive bonus awards and LTIP awards to the Executive Directors that reflected the level of performance and achievement in 2016.
Shareholder Feedback The Committee recognises that building a close relationship with shareholders can complement the work of the Committee in developing the Remuneration Policy.
During 2016, we received feedback from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services with respect to our remuneration programme.
One of our overarching aims has been to implement the Remuneration Policy which closely aligns the interests of our senior executives and our shareholders.
We continue to appreciate any feedback shareholders may have.
Kevin Sharer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 April 2017 63 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED What is in this report?
The Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Company on pages 66 to 77, and describes the implementation of that Remuneration Policy.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The Remuneration Policy was developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Listing Rules and shareholders executive remuneration guidelines.
The Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors was put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM and approved by shareholders.
The Remuneration Policy took formal effect from that date, and remains in effect.
The Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 62 to 63, together with the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 78 to 91, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
REMUNERATION POLICY OVERVIEW The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee designed this Remuneration Policy with close regard to market practice in other UK listed companies so as to ensure that the arrangements are appropriately competitive and structured in line with best practice.
However, the Remuneration Policy also retains some of the key elements which helped to drive the Groups success prior to IPO, and other customary service arrangements and incentive elements for US-based management and employees.
Allied Minds success depends in part on the talent of its management and employees.
Allied Minds has a highly skilled workforce, with significant expertise throughout the Group across a range of science and technology disciplines, as well as a highly experienced management team.
Allied Minds seeks to ensure that its management team and its employees and consultants working within the Groups individual businesses are fairly and appropriately rewarded and incentivised.
Allied Minds seeks to achieve this through a combination of competitive levels of remuneration that is appropriate to the scale of responsibility and performance of the employee or consultant, and incentives tied directly to increasing shareholder value.
The Group operates in the highly competitive US market, and attraction and retention of individual talent is important to success of the Groups businesses.
Allied Minds deploys a careful and considered approach to remuneration with the objective of attracting, motivating and retaining individuals of the necessary calibre.
It is important to note that each national market for talent is different, making cross-border comparisons very difficult.
In addition to general standard of living costs, there are large differences with respect to taxes, pensions, provision of cars, and medical plans and costs, among many others.
The Company believes that it is important that remuneration is weighted toward rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time as its employees work toward the commercialisation of scientific and technological innovations.
Accordingly, Allied Minds has established share incentive plans with the aim of incentivising and rewarding employees and Directors to achieve long term shareholder value.
The Directors believe the share incentive arrangements at the level of the subsidiary businesses, as well as the overall Group, are an important factor in the promotion of shareholder value creation.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management and employees, and to focus them on the delivery of the Companys long-term strategic and business objectives, to 64 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED promote a strong and sustainable performance culture, incentivise growth and the achievement of milestones, and to align the interests of Executive Directors and senior management team with those of shareholders through equity ownership.
In promoting these objectives the Remuneration Policy aims to be simple in design, transparent and understandable both to participants and shareholders, and has been structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
65 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY PAGES 66 TO 77 The Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Remuneration Policy took formal effect from that date.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the Remuneration Policy annually to ensure that it continues to align with the Companys strategic objectives: however, it is intended that the Remuneration Policy will apply for three years from the 2016 AGM.
If, during that timeframe, any amendments need to be made to the Remuneration Policy, it will be presented to the shareholders to be voted on.
How the views of shareholders and employees are taken into account The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Company.
As set out in the Remuneration Policy table below, in setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company and salary increases will ordinarily be considered in light of those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the Committee is satisfied that the decisions made in relation to Executive Directors pay are made with an appropriate understanding of the wider workforce.
Any feedback received from time to time from shareholders will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee will seek to engage with shareholders and their representative bodies when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the Remuneration Policy.
The voting outcomes from the 2016 AGM are available on page 91.
The Future Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors The total remuneration package is structured so that variable elements annual bonus and long-term incentives make up a significant proportion of the package, with the emphasis on variable pay focused on long-term incentives.
The tables below summarise the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
66 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION THE COMPANYS METRICS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The Company is An Executive There is no prescribed There are no SALARY required to provide Directors basic maximum annual performance conditions an appropriate level salary is considered salary.
The Committee attached to the payment of salary in order to by the Committee seeks to ensure that the of salary although be competitive and on appointment and salaries conform to its there are a number of to maintain its ability normally reviewed once strategy, whilst remaining performance-based to recruit and retain per year or when there competitive against factors both at the Executive Directors.
is a significant change to similar roles within the individual and Company Salaries are set to role or responsibility.
level that influence the achieve this objective.
level of salaries provided When making a to Executive Directors The Committee wishes determination as for annual performance to ensure that fixed to the appropriate appraisals.
costs are minimised remuneration, the and that total actual Committee, where it is payments to executives relevant, benchmarks the will be driven to a more remuneration against the significant extent through Companys peer groups.
the operation of the For the purpose of performance related benchmarking salaries elements of the package.
and other remuneration, As described in this the principal peer Remuneration Policy, the grouping used by the performance elements of Company consists of total reward are directly companies within similar linked to the achievement industry sectors which of the Companys are either US or UK strategic objectives.
listed with a range of capitalisations.
The results of benchmarking will, however only be one of a number of factors taken into account by the Remuneration Committee and which will include: scale, scope and responsibility of the role: skills and experience of the individual: retention risk: base salary of other employees: and economic environment.
67 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION THE COMPANYS METRICS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The Committees intention The Executive Directors The cost of benefits There are no BENEFITS is to provide a benefits may be entitled to the provided changes in performance conditions package in line with following benefits: accordance with market attached to the payment US employment market conditions and will, of benefits.
therefore, determine the maximum amount that disability insurance: The Company is required would be paid in the to provide this benefits medical benefits and form of benefits.
There package in order to dental care: is therefore no overall be competitive and maximum opportunity a car allowance: and to maintain its ability under this component of to recruit and retain the Remuneration Policy.
an annual payment to Executive Directors.
cover personal legal and tax advice.
Executive Directors may also participate in any all-employee share plans that may be operated by the Group from time to time on the same terms as other employees.
Additional benefits, which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance or other benefits-in-kind, may be provided in certain circumstances if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee, including as may be required on recruitment.
68 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RENUMERATION THE COMPANYS METRICS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The cash incentive bonus The Committee and There are no caps on the As noted in Operation, CASH award, taken together senior management amount of bonus which the decision to provide INCENTIVE with base salary, is review the Groups may be paid.
However, any cash incentive bonus BONUS required in order to management by each year the Committee award and the amount be competitive and objectives MBOs determines the maximum and terms of any such AWARDS to maintain the ability annually prior to the start opportunity for each award, are determined to recruit and retain of each financial year Executive Director.
solely by the level of Executive Directors.
Cash to ensure the detailed achievement against When making a incentive bonus awards performance measures the MBOs set by the determination as to the are set to achieve this and weightings are Committee at the start of appropriate maximum objective.
appropriate and continue the financial year.
bonus, the Committee, to support the business As described in this where it is relevant, The Committee may strategy.
Remuneration Policy, the benchmarks the consider any and all performance elements Annual MBOs, including remuneration against the performance criteria of cash incentive bonus financial, operational, Companys peer groups.
in setting the annual awards and total reward technical and other MBOs to be used in the For the purpose of are directly linked to performance targets and determination to provide benchmarking cash the achievement of the their weightings for the an award, and may incentive bonus awards Companys strategic upcoming year are set generally consider: and other remuneration, objectives.
at or around the start of the principal peer the general each financial year.
grouping used by the performance of the An Executive Directors Company consists of Group, including cash incentive bonus companies within similar financial, operational, award is considered industry sectors which technical and other by the Committee upon are either US or UK performance targets: and completion of each listed with a range of the individual financial year.
performance of the decision to provide any Executive Director.
cash incentive bonus award and the amount Weighting will be and terms of any such primarily towards Group, award, are determined and not individual, solely by the level of MBO performance for achievement against Executive Directors.
the MBOs set by the Performance will typically Committee at the start of be measured over one the financial year.
69 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION THE COMPANYS METRICS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PENSION It is the Committees No element of the None.
intention to provide Executive Directors pension benefits in line remuneration is with US employment pensionable.
does not operate any pension scheme or The Company is not other scheme providing required to provide retirement or similar pension benefits in order benefits.
The Group to be competitive and to does not contribute to ensure its ability to recruit any personal pension and retain Executive schemes for employees.
However, the Company offers a retirement plan in accordance with subsection 401 k of the Internal Revenue Code 401 k Plan in which Executive Directors may make voluntary pre-tax contributions toward their own retirement.
The Company does not make any payments or contributions to such 401 k Plan.
70 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS REMUNERATION THE COMPANYS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The LTIP provides The LTIP is reviewed Under the terms of the Specific performance targets may vary ALLIED MINDS a competitive, annually at or around LTIP, the maximum value of from year to year in accordance with LONG TERM performance-linked the start of each ordinary shares over which priorities support the business strategy.
long-term incentive financial year to awards under the LTIP may INCENTIVE PLAN In respect of the LTIP awards made in mechanism that will: ensure the detailed be granted to a participant LTIP 2014 and 2015, vesting is dependent performance measures in any financial year of attract, retain upon performance metrics measured as and weightings are the Company may not and motivate follows: appropriate and generally exceed 300% of individuals with the continue to support the base salary for that financial 60% of each award will be subject required personal business strategy.
year, unless circumstances to performance conditions based on the attributes, skills and arise which the Committee Companys total shareholder return TSR experience: Financial and or nonbelieve justify granting an performance in respect of a three-year financial performance award outside this limit.
provide a real period: and targets are set at or The Committee would only incentive to achieve around the start of envisage overriding the 40% of each award will be subject the Companys each financial year.
300% limit in exceptional to performance conditions based on long-term strategic circumstances such as a basket of shareholder value metrics, objectives: and Awards under the LTIP where there was a need including, but not limited to: to Executive Directors to do so to attract a new align the interests will normally take i the increase in quality of pipeline of management and executive.
the form of restricted intellectual property reviewed: ii the shareholders.
share units RSUs a Notwithstanding the increase in quality of the partnership form of conditional maximum value permitted pipeline: and iii subsidiary level share award in under the terms of the LTIP, performance assessed by reference to respect of shares in each year the Committee such matters as external funding raised, Allied Minds although determines the maximum corporate collaborations, product instruments with similar opportunity for each co-development and proof of principal economic effect may Executive Director.
be used if considered Performance will be assessed on these appropriate.
When making a measures on a scorecard basis over a determination as to the three year period.
Calculations of the appropriate maximum achievement of LTIP award, the At the end of the three year period, the vesting targets Committee where it is performance against the relevant are reviewed and relevant, benchmarks the measures will be calculated to determine approved by the remuneration against the the number of ordinary shares capable Committee.
For the 2014 awards, 50% of the award will then vest at that time.
Awards are subject For the purpose of The remaining 50% will vest in two equal to cancellation or benchmarking LTIP awards tranches in years 4 and 5 subject to the clawback provisions and other remuneration, relevant participant still being employed under which in the the principal peer grouping within the Group at the relevant vesting event of a material used by the Company date.
For the 2015 awards, 100% of correction of any consists of companies within the award will vest at the end of the three accounts of the similar industry sectors year period.
Company used to which are either US or assess satisfaction UK listed with a range of The level of vesting for threshold of any performance capitalisations.
performance for the 2015 awards is conditions, or in the 33.33% of the maximum.
The level of event of a participants vesting for target performance is 66.67% gross misconduct, of the maximum.
awards may be reduced, adjusted Starting in 2016, the Committee expects or cancelled as to make annual awards under the LTIP determined by the with 100% of each award subject to Committee.
Clawback performance conditions based on the applies for the two Companys relative total shareholder year period following return rTSR performance in respect of vesting.
The Group TSR will be measured relative to the FTSE 250, the S&P 500, and a peer group of four publicly-traded companies.
The level of vesting for threshold performance is 16.67% of the maximum.
The level of vesting for target performance is 66.67% of the maximum.
71 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION SUPPORTS THE METRICS COMPANYS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The Committees The Phantom Plan is a The maximum aggregate No amounts accrue under the ALLIED MINDS intention is to performance-based, number of units that may Phantom Plan, and no amounts PHANTOM PLAN reward participants cash settled bonus be awarded under the are distributed to participants, for a successful plan for Allied Minds Phantom Plan is 200,000 until and unless a successful subsidiary Executive Directors units.
subsidiary company liquidity company and management.
event occurs, and the cash Upon a liquidity event liquidity event.
The Plan is triggered generated in such liquidity Allied Minds will distribute The Committee by a successful event exceeds the amount 80% of the Phantom Plan recognises subsidiary liquidity Allied Minds invested in such account to the participants that successful event, including i subsidiary company, plus based on their pro subsidiary a subsidiary IPO, accrued interest and expenses rata share of all vested company liquidity ii the sale of all or in respect of such investment.
units on the date of the events are a key substantially all of a No other performance metrics applicable liquidation strategic objective subsidiary companys apply.
event, and the remaining of the Group and assets, iii the sale 20% of the Phantom its shareholders, of at least two-thirds Plan account will be and believes that of the outstanding distributed to participants the Phantom Plan shares of a subsidiary at the discretion of the is designed to companys voting Committee.
align the interests equity, iv the merger of the Executive or consolidation of a Directors and subsidiary company management of with or into another Allied Minds with entity, or v a such objective.
Upon a liquidity event, Allied Minds will deduct the amount it invested in such subsidiary company and deduct the accrued interest in respect of such investment, and will then allocate 10% of the remaining net proceeds to the Phantom Plan account for allocation among the participants.
Participation in the Phantom Plan is evidenced by units.
Vesting of units is determined at the time of grant of the units.
72 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION THE COMPANYS METRICS SHORT AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The Companys intention Non-Executive Directors The fees paid There are no NON-EXECUTIVE is to set fees at a level have specific terms take account of performance conditions DIRECTORS FEES necessary to attract and of engagement responsibilities in acting attached to the payment retain experienced and provided in formal as Chairman of the of fees or the vesting skilled Non-Executive letters of appointment.
Board, Chairman of a under the awards Directors with the Their remuneration Board Committee or granted under the LTIP.
necessary experience is determined by as Senior Independent and expertise to advise the Board, taking Director.
and assist in establishing into account The fees paid to the and monitoring the recommendations Chairman shall only strategic objectives from the Remuneration be payable where the of the Company.
Committee, within the Chairman is a NonFees also reflect the limits set by the Articles Executive Director.
time commitment and of Association and Given the US-based responsibilities of the based on equivalent nature of the Groups roles.
roles in FTSE 250 business, and the need companies and the An additional fee is paid to attract and retain peer groups used for for Chairmanship of a independent directors Executive Directors.
The Board Committee and with significant US fees for Non-Executive to the Chairman of the business and leadership Directors are reviewed Board.
experience, the fees annually and fixed for include an equity the fiscal year.
The component, based upon Non-Executive Directors a recommendation from are appointed for a Korn Ferry | Hay Group.
three year term, subject to annual re-election by The Committee is the shareholders, at the satisfied that the level Companys AGM.
of fees conform to its strategy, whilst remaining Non-Executive Directors competitive against do not receive any cash similar roles within the incentive bonus and relevant peer groups.
do not participate in Careful consideration any Company pension has been given as to scheme.
whether including an The Non-Executive equity component would Directors are eligible affect the independence for RSU awards under of the Non-Executive the LTIP.
Awards to the Directors, and the Non-Executive Directors conclusion was reached will be subject to timethat it would not, given based vesting provisions, the level of the awards and will not be subject and the fact that they are to performance metrics.
Each Non-Executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement of reasonable and properly documented expenses incurred in performing the duties of their office.
73 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in the tables on the previous pages, where the terms of the payment were agreed either: i before the policy came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Differences between the Remuneration Policy and that applied to employees generally The components of remuneration set out on the previous pages for Executive Directors are also generally applied to the Groups senior management team and differ only in vesting terms, values and award maxima.
The basic benefits package is typically available to all US employees at the Group level following completion of a probationary period.
Overall, there is more emphasis on variable pay for the Executive Directors and senior management, but all US employees at the Group level are eligible for discretionary cash incentive bonus awards.
In addition, the Company is committed to fostering alignment with shareholders through widespread share ownership, and thus all US employees at the Group level are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
The Group has also implemented equity incentive plans within its subsidiaries in order to incentivise employees within the subsidiary businesses.
Generally, the employees of the subsidiary businesses do not participate in any of the Group level incentive plans.
The Chief Executive Officer of each of our most significant subsidiaries may participate in the future in the LTIP, but the levels of such awards under the LTIP are not expected to be a significant percentage of their total compensation.
Schemes or arrangements under which allocations or awards are no longer being made In addition to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements set forth in the Remuneration Policy, the Group previously maintained the Allied Minds Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan US Stock Plan.
The Company does not intend to make any further grants under the US Stock Plan.
The interests of the Executive Directors in outstanding options under the US Stock Plan are shown in the statement of directors shareholding and share interest on pages 82 to 83 of this Annual Report.
The exercise price of the options is equivalent to the fair market value of Common Stock of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC as at the date of grant of the options and all outstanding options have already vested and become exercisable.
74 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 20% 37% 44% Maximum Threshold 80% 20% 100% Minimum - $500 $1,000 $1,500 $2,000 $2,500 $3,000 $3,500 Base Bonus LTIP - Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The Committee will apply the Remuneration Policy for any new Executive Director recruited to the Board in respect of all elements of forward-looking remuneration.
The maximum level of variable remuneration under the cash incentive bonus awards and LTIP that may be awarded will be within the usual maximums set out in the Remuneration Policy, subject to the exceptions permitted under the LTIP.
The Committee retains flexibility to provide benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, required in order to recruit the intended candidate.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
It is intended that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited awards.
The Committee would seek as far as possible to make such buyout awards under the Companys existing share plans but, if necessary, may rely on the Listing Rules exemption which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Similarly, the Remuneration Policy for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors would be to apply the same remuneration elements as applicable to existing Non-Executive Directors under the Remuneration Policy.
In addition to the above principles, the following additional considerations may be applied as appropriate depending on the circumstances: In the case of internal promotion, any existing performance-related elements arising from an individuals previous role will continue to be honoured under the Remuneration Policy, even if they may not otherwise be consistent with the Remuneration Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
In the case of promotion to executive director following an acquisition or other business combination, the Committee may permit equity-based incentive arrangements to continue in force if they can be rolled-up into awards over Allied Minds shares provided the performance and vesting conditions are considered appropriate.
In the case of the recruitment of an executive at a time of the year when it would be inappropriate or not 75 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED possible to provide an LTIP award for that year for instance due to price sensitive information or if there is insufficient time to assess performance, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to and amalgamated with the subsequent years award if considered reasonable to do so by the Committee.
The Committee will include details of the implementation of the Remuneration Policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board in its future Annual Reports on Remuneration.
Letters of Appointment Each of Rick Davis, Peter Dolan and Jeff Rohr have Non-Executive Director letters of appointment that commenced May 2014.
Kevin Sharer and Jill Smith have Non-Executive Director letters of appointment that commenced June 2015 and January 2016, respectively.
Each of the letters of appointment are for an initial fixed term of three years, which are reviewed and may be extended, and are terminable on one months notice by either party.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors do not provide for any compensation on termination.
At 10 March 2017, Jill Smiths Non-Executive Director letter of appointment was terminated, and she entered into a new Executive Director letter of appointment.
The letter of appointment immediately terminates upon the termination of her appointment as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
The letter of appointment does not provide for any compensation on termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for election at the first AGM since their appointment to the Board, and for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Remuneration Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The Directors believe the payments owed upon loss of office detailed below are customary and appropriate to attract and retain US-based senior management of the highest calibre.
The Committee reserves the right to make payments where they are made in good faith in discharge of an existing obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment where they are in the best interests of Allied Minds and its shareholders and reflecting the directors contractual and legal rights.
Impact of Loss of Office on Awards under LTIP Participants who cease to be employees, directors or service providers to the Group will normally forfeit any unvested awards.
However, if a participant leaves as a result of death, disability, dismissal other than for cause or any other reason determined by the Committee, awards will vest on the normal vesting date on a pro-rata basis taking into account performance and the period of time during the applicable performance measurement period in which the participant continuously provided services.
The Committee may in its discretion determine that there are exceptional circumstances justifying vesting to a greater or lesser extent.
Impact of Change of Control on Awards under LTIP If there is a change of control of the Company, the number of ordinary shares over which awards will vest will be calculated on the basis of the extent to which the performance criteria applicable to those awards have been satisfied as at the date of the change of control.
The resulting number of shares will then be reduced on a pro 76 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED rata basis to reflect the reduced period between the date the award was made and the date of the change of control, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may recommend full vesting.
This discretion to accelerate vesting upon a change of control is included in the LTIP to meet the expectations of a US-based workforce.
Statement of Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Company In considering changes to the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee is mindful of pay and conditions in the wider Group.
Whilst the Group operates a range of bonus plans appropriate to its various businesses, the main drivers of these subsidiary plans, in common with the cash incentive bonus awards to Executive Directors, are the achievement of company milestones, and other company and individual objectives.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Remuneration Policy.
Through the Board, however, the Committee is regularly updated as to employees views on remuneration generally.
In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board, that individual would be allowed to retain any preexisting incentive entitlement that had not vested at that time.
77 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION PAGES 78 TO 91 The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Each Director audited The following table sets out the single total figure for remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Actual Non-Executive Directors fees, pro-rated for the portion of the year they served on the Board.
Includes, where applicable, Company contribution to medical and dental insurance premiums, car allowance, and reimbursement for personal legal and tax advice.
Equities based payments include the value of LTIP awards granted to the Executive Directors in 2014 which are expected to vest in May 2017 based upon performance conditions met as of 31 December 2016.
As noted on pages 81 and 82, the Remuneration Committee has made a preliminary assessment that these awards will vest at 94.33% of the maximum number of shares under the award.
The 2016 value has been calculated using the expected 94.33% level of vesting, and the share price at 31 December 2016 net of settlement price.
If the share price at 24 April 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document had been used, the disclosed amount would have been $2,712,038 net of settlement price.
Equities based payments also include the value of LTIP awards granted to the Non-Executive Directors that vested in 2016 based on the value on the date the awards vested and the shares were granted.
In addition, management has adjusted the 2015 numbers for Non-Executive Directors by an aggregate of $99,000 considering that performance conditions for the restricted share awards were met in 2014, and aggregate amount of $99,000 should have been included in the single total figure table for 2014.
Mr. Silva resigned as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director as of 10 March 2017.
Details of the effect of his resignation on outstanding payments and benefits are given on pages 87 to 88.
Mr. Sharer was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in June 2015.
Ms. Smith was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2016.
Ms. Smith resigned as Non-Executive Director on 10 March 2017, and was appointed as interim Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director as of such date.
Individual Elements of Remuneration Base Salary and Cash Incentive Bonus Awards during 2016 The Remuneration Committee engaged Korn Ferry | Hay Group to conduct a compensation benchmarking study for the Companys senior management in conjunction with the Companys 2016 year-end compensation process, including an analysis of the traditional elements of executive pay base salary, annual cash incentive bonus, long-term equity incentives and total direct compensation.
Korn Ferry | Hay Group utilised a variety of information sources to evaluate the market for executive compensation, including an analysis of eight publiclytraded companies.
For the purpose of benchmarking salaries and other remuneration the principal peer grouping used by the Company consisted of listed companies within similar industry sectors with a range of capitalisation.
78 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Based upon the results of the benchmarking study, the Remuneration Committee concluded each of the Executive Directors total direct compensation was still at or below the 50th percentile of the peer group.
Given the strong Company performance in 2015, the Remuneration Committee recommended to the Board the following for 2016: a modest 3% increase in base salary for the Chief Executive Officer: and a maximum cash incentive bonus award of 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer, and target award at 100% of base salary.
For reference, as a percentage of base salary, the actual award was 65.7% in 2013, 125.0% in 2014 and 105.0% in 2015.
The Remuneration Committee designed the increase in base salary and potential increase in cash incentive bonus award to reflect its policy of moving the Executive Director compensation, in connection with superior performance, towards the 50th percentile of the peer group.
The Remuneration Committee also designed the potential increases to emphasise the variable component of compensation, by allocating more of the potential increase to the cash incentive bonus award and not base salary.
Notwithstanding the increases, the Executive Director total direct compensation remained below the median for the peer group during 2016.
The increase in cash incentive bonus award was from $525,000 in 2015 to $572,680 in 2016.
As described in the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee and senior management review the Groups management by objectives MBOs annually prior to the start of each financial year to ensure the detailed performance measures and weightings are appropriate and continue to support the business strategy.
Annual MBOs, including financial, operational, technical and other performance targets and their weightings for the upcoming year are set at or around the start of each financial year.
An Executive Directors cash incentive bonus award is considered by the Remuneration Committee upon completion of each financial year.
The decision to provide any cash incentive bonus award and the amount and terms of any such award, are determined solely by the level of achievement against the MBOs set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year.
The MBOs set by the Remuneration Committee for 2016, along with the level of achievement against such MBOs, is set forth below: THRESHOLD TARGET MAXIMUM ACHIEVED MBO WEIGHTINGS WEIGHTINGS WEIGHTINGS WEIGHTINGS 1 2 Group 1 Validating Events 0.0% 30.0% 45.0% 37.5% 3 Group 1 Technical Milestones 0.0% 10.0% 15.0% 10.3% 4 Group 2 Validating Events 0.0% 10.0% 15.0% 13.5% Group 2 Technical Milestones 0.0% 5.0% 7.5% 4.4% New Company Formation 0.0% 20.0% 30.0% 20.0% Group Fundraising and Cash Management 0.0% 20.0% 30.0% 25.5% Group Revenue 0.0% 5.0% 7.5% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 150.0% 111.2% TOTAL PERCENTAGE OF TARGET Notes: 1.
Group 1 represents subsidiary operating companies of the Group that are at a more mature stage of technical and or commercial development, and generally represent a more significant percentage of Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV.
Validating Events represent various material achievements, such as fundraisings, mergers and acquisitions, development partnerships, strategic alliances, customer contracts and other significant corporate events.
Technical Milestones represent various research and development achievements, as well as advancement of clinical trials.
Group 2 represents subsidiary operating companies of the Group that are at a less mature stage of technical and or commercial development, and generally represent a less significant percentage of GSOAV.
79 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Remuneration Committee determined that the MBO percentage achievement for 2016 was 111.2% of target percentage.
The Remuneration Committee determined such achievement in accordance with the MBOs set at the beginning of 2016, and did not exercise any material discretion.
As noted above, the target cash incentive bonus award for the Chief Executive Officer was set at 100% of base salary for 2016, with maximum award set at 150% of base salary.
Based upon the MBO achievement, the cash incentive bonus award to the Chief Executive Officer was set at 111.2% of base salary, or $572,680.
LTIP Awards made during 2016 audited FACE % OF NUMBER VALUE OF VALUE TO % OF VALUE BASIS OF OF AWARD VEST AT TO VEST AT VESTING TYPE AWARD SHARES $000 THRESHOLD TARGET CONDITIONS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chris Silva RSU See below 238,470 $1,159 16.67% 66.67% Based on performance achievement, 100% at end of 2018 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Rick Davis RSU See below 10,290 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to May 2019 Peter Dolan RSU See below 15,435 $75 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to May 2019 Jeff Rohr RSU See below 10,290 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to May 2019 Kevin Sharer RSU See below 10,290 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to May 2019 Jill Smith RSU See below 10,290 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to May 2019 At 9 May 2016, the LTIP award above was granted to the Chief Executive Officer.
The total value of the award has been calculated using the closing share price of 337p on such date.
The level of award was determined by the Committee after giving due consideration to the 2015 Korn Ferry | Hay Group compensation benchmarking study which concluded that the target amount of the award $772,500, or 150% of base salary, would position the CEO below the median for the peer group for total compensation during 2016.
The maximum value of such award which could be received by Mr. Silva is 225% of base salary.
Vesting of the LTIP award is dependent upon performance metrics measured over the three years to 31 December 2018, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Policy table on page 71 of the Report.
Following Mr. Silvas resignation as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, the 2016 LTIP award will continue to be subject to achievement of performance criteria, but on a pro-rata basis.
Further details are given on pages 87 to 88.
At 9 May 2016, the LTIP awards above were granted to the Non-Executive Directors.
The level of award was determined by the Committee after giving due consideration to the 2015 Korn Ferry | Hay Group compensation benchmarking study which recommended such awards in light of the US-based nature of the Groups business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and leadership experience.
Vesting of the 80 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP award is based upon time of service, with each award vesting in three equal installments over a three year period.
There are no performance conditions attached to the vesting under the awards granted under the LTIP.
Long Term Incentive Plan Vesting during 2016 audited information The Company did not make any awards under the LTIP prior to 2014.
Accordingly, no equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2015 or 2014.
LTIP awards granted to the Non-Executive Directors in June 2015 partially vested in 2016.
Vesting of the NonExecutive Director LTIP awards is based upon time of service, with each award vesting in three equal installments over a three year period.
There are no performance conditions attached to the vesting under the awards granted under the LTIP to the Non-Executive Directors.
As a result of such vesting, 2,723 ordinary shares were allotted and issued to Mr. Dolan, and 1,815 ordinary shares were allotted and issued to each of Messrs. Davis, Rohr and Sharer.
No LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors vested during 2016.
However, the performance period for LTIP awards made to Executive Directors during 2014 ends on 31 December 2016, and such awards are expected to partially vest in May 2017 based upon the performance metrics set forth below.
In respect of the LTIP awards made to Executive Directors during 2014, vesting is dependent upon performance metrics measured as follows: 60% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance in respect of a three-year period, as follows: o threshold vesting 33.33% of maximum for achievement of a 10% annualised TSR, o target vesting 66.67% of maximum for achievement of a 15% annualised TSR, and o maximum vesting for achievement of a 20% annualised TSR: and 40% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on a basket of shareholder value metrics SVM, including, but not limited to: o the increase in quality of pipeline intellectual property reviewed, o the increase in quality of the partnership pipeline, and o subsidiary level performance assessed by reference to such matters as external funding raised, corporate collaborations, product co-development and proof of principal commercial pilots and revenues.
In May 2017, performance against the relevant measures will be calculated to finally determine the number of ordinary shares capable of vesting, and the potential award will then vest at that time.
The Companys annualised TSR for the measurement period was 33.99%, which consisted of an increase from 190.0p at the Companys IPO in June 2014 to a 30-day trailing high low average on 31 December 2016 of 399.2p.
Thus, the TSR condition exceeded the maximum TSR and 60.00% out of a possible 60.00% of the maximum number of shares under the award are expected to vest in May 2017.
The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a preliminary assessment of Company performance in each of January 2015, 2016 and 2017 to assess the level of achievement under the SVM condition, and awarded a preliminary score of 4.0 maximum for 2014, 3.0 target for 2015, and 3.3 above target for 2016.
The Remuneration Committee will make its final assessment in May 2017, but based upon the preliminary assessment, the SVM condition averaged 3.433 over the measurement period, and 34.33% out of a possible 81 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 40.00% of the maximum number of shares under the award would on this basis be expected to vest in May 2017.
Taken together, and based on the preliminary assessment, 94.33% of the maximum number of shares under the award are expected to be eligible for vesting in May 2017.
US Stock Plan Awards made during 2016 audited information The Company did not make any grants under the US Stock Plan in 2016, and does not intend to make any further grants.
Payments to Past Directors audited information No payments to past Directors were made during the last financial year.
Loss of Office Payments audited information No payments for loss of office were made to past Directors during the last financial year.
Total Pension Entitlements audited information No payments for pension entitlements were made to Directors during the last financial year.
The Company offers a retirement plan in accordance with subsection 401 k of the Internal Revenue Code 401 k Plan in which Executive Directors may make voluntary pre-tax contributions toward their own retirement.
Statement of Directors Shareholding and Share Interests audited Share ownership plays a key role in the alignment of our executives with the interests of shareholders.
In April 2016, the Remuneration Committee adopted a share ownership policy for Executive Directors.
The policy requires Executive Directors to acquire and maintain a minimum ownership level of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, thereby helping to align their interests with those of shareholders.
The Committee has set the current requirements at share value of 400% of base salary for Executive Officers.
The Committee has not set a timeframe during which Executive Officers are required to accumulate their share ownership level.
During 2016, the Executive Director met this requirement.
The table below sets out the number of shares held by Directors as at 31 December 2016, and the Company is not aware of any changes through 27 April 2017.
82 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARES SHARES OPTIONS TO SHARES HELD CONDITIONAL ON CONDITIONAL PURCHASE OUTRIGHT PERFORMANCE ON SERVICE SHARES TOTAL EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chris Silva 2,844,402 1,763,441 3,105,498 7,713,341 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Rick Davis 261,415 13,921 275,336 Peter Dolan 42,323 20,882 63,205 Jeff Rohr 41,415 13,921 55,336 Kevin Sharer 1,815 13,921 15,736 Jill Smith 10,290 10,290 Performance Graph The graph below illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies and the FTSE All Share index of which the Company is a constituent, from the start of conditional share dealing on 25 June 2014.
The graph shows performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer compared to US Group employees 120 115 110 105 100 95 31-12 31-12 2015 2016 ALM FTSE 250 FTSE All Share The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and that of our US Group employees excluding Directors from 2015 to 2016: % CHANGE % CHANGE % CHANGE IN BASE IN CASH IN BENEFITS SALARY BONUS CEO 3.0% 9.1% 45.2% US Group Employees 4.8% 9.1% 8.2% 83 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Historical CEO remuneration outcomes The table below summarises the Chief Executive Officer single total figure for total remuneration, annual cash incentive bonus award, LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and US Stock Plan share award vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity, for the last financial year.
As the company listed in 2014, the comparative begins with the 2013 period.
2016 2015 2014 2013 CEO single total figure for remuneration $000 $1,149 $1,067 $15,942 $1,236 1 Annual cash incentive bonus award pay-out % of maximum 74.13% n a n a n a 2 LTIP award vesting % of maximum n a n a n a n a 3 US Stock Plan award vesting % of maximum n a n a 100% 100% Notes: 1.
With respect to 2015, 2014 and 2013, the percentage of maximum is not applicable because the Company did not have any cap on cash incentive bonus award payments in those financial years.
For 2016, the maximum cash incentive bonus award for Executive Officers was 150% of base salary.
No equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2016, 2015, 2014 or 2013.
However, the performance period for LTIP awards made to Executive Directors during 2014 ended on 31 December 2016, and such awards are expected to partially vest in May 2017.
As noted above, 94.33% of the maximum number of shares under the 2014 LTIP award are expected to be eligible for vesting in May 2017.
Equity-based payments include awards under the US Stock Plan.
All equity awards, including stock options and restricted stock, under the US Stock Plan became vested and fully exercisable, or vested and fully transferable, in connection with the IPO.
Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the total employee costs, change in Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value, and change in share price from 2015 to 2016.
The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Total employee pay: Total US Group employee staff costs from note 5 on page 123, including wages and salaries, social security and healthcare costs, and share-based payments.
Change in Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV taken from page 16.
Returns to shareholders: since the Group does not currently pay a dividend, returns to shareholders are represented by the change in the Groups share price over the period from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2016.
Please note that for the purposes of this chart only, the GSOAV determined in April 2017 shall be assumed retroactive to 31 December 2016.
84 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 535.8 48.3 470.0 416.2 400.0 40.1 Total employee costs GSOAV $m Share Price p $m 20.4% -22.3% 17.5% 2016 2015 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Base Salary and Benefits Effective from 01 January 2017, the base salary of the current Executive Director will be: BASE SALARY INCREASE % INCREASE Jill Smith $1,200,000 n a n a During the period that Ms. Smith is serving as interim Chief Executive Officer, she will be paid a base salary of $100,000 per month, and she will not be eligible for any cash incentive bonus awards, LTIP awards, or any other incentive or equity schemes.
It is expected that in due course Ms. Smith will notify the Board as to her willingness to transition to serve as permanent Chief Executive Officer.
Upon any such notification, Ms. Smith and the Board shall mutually agree on the revised terms of such employment, including base salary, annual incentive bonus awards, equity grants and other terms of remuneration.
The final terms of Ms. Smiths service contract and remuneration are expected to be in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, subject to the considerations set forth in the approach to remuneration recruitment above.
The benefits package during 2017 will continue to be in line with US employment market practice and the Remuneration Policy.
Cash Incentive Bonus Awards As noted above, Ms. Smith will not be eligible for any cash incentive bonus award unless she transitions to the role of permanent Chief Executive Officer.
The Remuneration Committee expects to implement the following to the cash incentive bonus awards, which is permitted under the Remuneration Policy.
During 2016, the maximum cash incentive bonus award opportunity for each Executive Director was set at 150% of base salary.
Under the Remuneration Policy, each year the Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum opportunity for each Executive Director.
The maximum opportunity for each Executive Director in 2017 may be up to 300% of base salary.
85 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Executive Directors cash incentive bonus awards shall be considered by the Remuneration Committee upon completion of the financial year.
The decision to provide any cash incentive bonus award and the amount and terms of any such award, are determined solely by the level of achievement against the MBOs set by the Committee at the start of the financial year.
The annual MBOs, including financial, operational, technical and other performance targets and their weightings for the upcoming year were set at the start of 2017, and refined in April 2017, as follows: THRESHOLD TARGET MAXIMUM MBO WEIGHTINGS WEIGHTINGS WEIGHTINGS 1 2 Deliver Validating Events and Technical Milestones for Key Subsidiaries 0.0% 40.0% 60.0% Secure Funding and Strategic Relationships for Subsidiary Companies 0.0% 20.0% 30.0% Strengthen Investment Committee Process: 0.0% 5.0% 7.5% Establish Corporate Partner Goals and Commitments Expand New Company Pipeline Development 0.0% 5.0% 7.5% Define Path to Commercialisation, Liquidity Event or Key Commercial or 0.0% 10.0% 15.0% Strategic Differentiators Develop Strategic Plan to Drive Shareholder Value 0.0% 10.0% 15.0% Manage Cash 0.0% 10.0% 15.0% 0.0% 100.0% 150.0% TOTAL PERCENTAGE OF TARGET Notes: 1.
Long Term Incentive Plan As noted above, Ms. Smith will not be eligible for any long term incentive plan awards unless she transitions to the role of permanent Chief Executive Officer.
The Remuneration Committee does not expect to implement any changes to LTIP awards in 2017.
In 2016, the Remuneration Committee implemented the following changes to the LTIP awards, which were permitted under the Remuneration Policy.
During 2015, there was no cap on the amount of LTIP award to be made to Executive Directors, other than the cap of 300% of base salary per financial year as specified in the LTIP.
Under the current Remuneration Policy, each year the Committee will determine the maximum opportunity for each Executive Director.
The maximum opportunity for each Executive Director in 2017 shall be up to 300% of base salary.
In 2016, the Committee made awards under the LTIP with 100% of each award subject to performance conditions based on the Companys relative total shareholder return rTSR performance in respect of a threeyear period.
With respect to any LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017, the Committee expects to continue the same rTSR performance vesting terms.
In respect of the 2015 awards, the Committee expects vesting to continue to be dependent upon performance metrics as follows: 86 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 60% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on the Companys total shareholder return performance in respect of a three-year period: and 40% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on a basket of shareholder value metrics, including but not limited to: i the increase in quality of pipeline intellectual property reviewed: ii the increase in quality of the partnership pipeline: and iii subsidiary level performance assessed by reference to such matters as external funding raised, corporate collaborations, product co-development and proof of principal commercial pilots and revenues.
Performance will be assessed on these measures on a scorecard basis over a three-year period.
In respect of the 2015 awards, following the end of the three-year period, performance against the relevant measures will be calculated to determine the number of ordinary shares capable of vesting.
The level of vesting for threshold performance will be 33.33% of the maximum.
The level of vesting for target performance will be 66.67% of the maximum.
Details of the expected vesting of the 2014 awards are given on page 81.
Service Contract and Post Period Loss of Office Payments Former CEO At 31 December 2016, the former Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Chris Silva had a service contract that commenced in May 2014.
With effect from 10 March 2017, Mr. Silva resigned as Chief Executive Officer and as an Executive Director of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee approved the arrangements below which are in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy approved by the Companys shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Payments and benefits Mr. Silva will be entitled to: An annual incentive award for 2017, which shall be a lump sum payment of $100,675.73, which is equal to the product of: A $532,560 his average annual bonus for the three full years preceding his resignation and B a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days he was employed by the Company during 2017 and the denominator of which is the number of days in such year.
Continued payment of his base salary at the rate of $600,000 per year for a period of twenty-four 24 months.
Participation at the Companys expense under COBRA for six months for him and each of his eligible dependents in all medical, dental, hospitalization and other employee welfare benefit plans, programs and arrangements covered by COBRA.
Life and disability insurance cover at the Companys expense for six months.
Incentive arrangements Mr. Silva has outstanding restricted share unit awards RSUs granted under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan, outstanding share options Options granted under the Allied Minds Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan, and outstanding awards in the form of units Phantom Units granted under the Allied Minds Phantom Plan Phantom Plan.
The RSUs and Options are settled in ordinary shares in the Company Shares and the Phantom Units are settled in cash.
87 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In accordance with the terms of such awards and the Companys Remuneration Policy: The RSUs will continue to vest subject to achievement of the relevant performance criteria and, to the extent that they vest, Mr. Silva will be entitled to a pro rata number of Shares taking into account the time which Mr. Silva has worked in the period over which the performance criteria are measured.
The Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion to determine that the pro-rating shall be by reference to the number of days worked from the beginning of the relevant measurement period, rather than from the date of grant of the relevant RSU.
Mr. Silva has outstanding RSUs to acquire an aggregate of 1,763,441 Shares at maximum vesting.
The Options are fully vested.
Following the Remuneration Committee determination to extend the period for exercise of the Options from three to twelve months following termination, Mr. Silva has until 10 March 2018 to exercise such Options, failing which they will lapse.
Mr. Silva has outstanding Options which entitle him to acquire an aggregate of 3,105,498 Shares.
The Phantom Units are also fully vested.
Settlement of Phantom Units under the Phantom Plan is triggered by a successful subsidiary liquidity event Liquidity Event.
Mr. Silva remains entitled to a proportion of the payment he would have received on a Liquidity Event had he remained an employee.
That proportion is 90% if the Liquidity Event occurs within 9 months of his resignation date, 75% if 10-18 months from his resignation date: 50% if 19-27 months from his resignation date: 25% if 28-36 months from his resignation date, and 0% if later than 36 months from his resignation date.
Mr. Silva has 8,857 Phantom Units.
No further payments will be made to Mr. Silva in connection with his loss of office.
Service Contract and Letter of Appointment New Interim CEO At 10 March 2017, the new interim Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Jill Smith entered into a service contract.
The employment arrangement is at-will, which means that either Ms. Smith or Allied Minds may terminate the employment arrangement at any time, with or without cause and with or without prior notice.
During the period that Ms. Smith is serving as interim Chief Executive Officer, she will be paid a base salary of $100,000 per month, and she will not be eligible for any cash incentive bonus awards, LTIP awards, or any other incentive or equity schemes.
At 10 March 2017, Ms. Smiths Non-Executive Director letter of appointment was terminated, and she entered into a new Executive Director letter of appointment.
On 9 May 2016, in her capacity as a Non-Executive Director, Ms. Smith received a grant of 10,290 RSUs under the Companys LTIP.
The RSUs vest annually over a three-year period, with the first vesting date scheduled to occur on 9 May 2017.
Under the terms of the RSUs, vesting is time-based and occurs so long as Ms. Smith continues to be a Director of the Company.
Notwithstanding the terms of such RSUs, Ms. Smith has informed the Company that she intends to forfeit the awards in light of her appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director because such RSUs do not contain performance vesting conditions, and therefore are not in compliance with the Remuneration Policy.
88 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The service contract and letter of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
In accordance with the Code, Ms. Smith will submit herself for election at the AGM, and for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Effective from 01 January 2017, the base salaries of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be: 2017 CASH COMPONENT Non-Executive Director Annual Fee $75,000 Audit Committee Chair Annual Fee $25,000 Remuneration Committee Chair Annual Fee $10,000 Nomination Committee Chair Annual Fee $10,000 Chairman of the Board Annual Fee $75,000 EQUITY COMPONENT Non-Executive Director LTIP Award Value $50,000 Chairman of the Board LTIP Award Value $75,000 The Chairman, Non-Executive Director and Committee Chair annual fees set forth in the table above remain unchanged from 2016.
The additional fee for serving as Chairman shall only be payable where the Chairman is a Non-Executive Director.
Given the US-based nature of the Groups business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and leadership experience, the proposed fees above include an equity component, which will have a time-based vesting schedule.
Jill Smith, as an Executive Director, will not be entitled to any Board fees.
Outside Appointments for Executive Directors Any proposed external directorships are considered and approved by the Board to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest but, subject to this, Executive Directors may accept outside non-executive appointments.
Limits on the number of shares used to satisfy share awards dilution limits All of the Groups incentive schemes that contain an element that may be satisfied in Allied Minds plc shares incorporate provisions that in any ten-year period ending on the relevant date of grant, the maximum number of the shares that may be issued or issuable under all such schemes shall not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time excluding shares issued pursuant to awards granted prior to IPO under the US Stock Plan.
The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to the making of any share-based award, considers the effect of potential vesting of outstanding awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 December 2016.
Remuneration Committee: details and governance The full terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Groups website at www.
In summary, the Remuneration Committee has specific responsibility for advising the Board on the remuneration and other benefits of executive directors, an overall policy in respect of remuneration of other employees of the Group and establishing the Groups policy with respect to employee incentivisation schemes.
89 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised of the following independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom served during the entire financial year, and whose backgrounds and experience are summarised on pages 37 to 38: Kevin Sharer Chair Rick Davis Jeff Rohr Committee meetings are administered and minuted by the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Committee received assistance from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, each of who attend certain meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration were being discussed.
During the year, the key activities carried out by the Committee were: Conducted a review of all elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management: Reviewed feedback received from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services in connection with the implementation of the revised Remuneration Policy in 2016: Confirmed that the Remuneration Policy was designed to be appropriate for a UK listed company, whilst also ensuring that it was designed to continue to attract and retain US-based management and employees of the highest calibre: In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, implemented i a revised process for the determination of annual cash incentive bonus awards which utilised specific performance targets and weighting set in advance from year to year, and ii revised performance metrics for annual LTIP awards solely based upon relative total shareholder return rTSR : Reviewed the LTIP to ensure that it continues to advance the Committees policy to provide a competitive, performance-linked long-term incentive mechanism that will: i attract, retain and motivate individuals with the required personal attributes, skills and experience, ii provide a real incentive to achieve the Companys long-term strategic objectives, and iii and align the interests of management and shareholders: Set the management by objectives MBOs, including financial, operational, technical and other performance targets and their weightings at the start of 2016, and determined the level of achievement against the MBOs at the end of the year, in order to determine the cash incentive bonus awards for the Executive Officers for the last financial year: Considered the i scale, scope and responsibility of the role, ii skills and experience of the individual, iii retention risk, iv base salary of other employees, v and economic environment, and carried out benchmarking, in order to determine base salaries of the Executive Directors, for the period starting 1 January 2017: Issued LTIP awards on 9 May 2016: Reviewed progress against 2014, 2015 and 2016 LTIP award performance targets for the last financial year: Established 2014 and 2015 LTIP award performance targets for the current financial year: and Reviewed the remuneration reporting regulations in connection with the review and revision of the Groups Remuneration Policy and preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
90 Management & Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED External advisers The Remuneration Committee is authorised, if it wishes, to seek independent specialist services to provide information and advice on remuneration at the Companys expense, including attendance at Committee meetings.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee continued its review of executive remuneration and took into consideration professional advice from Korn Ferry | Hay Group carried out in the period from November 2016 through December 2016.
Korn Ferry | Hay Group performed peer benchmarking to assist the Committee with determinations regarding base salary, cash incentive bonus awards, and proposed LTIP awards.
Fees paid to Korn Ferry | Hay Group in connection with advice to the Committee in 2016 were $30,000 2015: $28,000.
Korn Ferry | Hay Group did not provide any other services or advice to the Group during the year.
They are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting The table below sets out the proxy results of the vote on the Groups Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy at the Groups 2016 AGM: VOTES FOR VOTES AGAINST % OF CAST % OF CAST VOTES NUMBER VOTES NUMBER VOTES VOTES CAST WITHHELD Remuneration Report 144,357,660 93.16% 10,604,891 6.84% 154,962,551 2,642,679 Remuneration Policy 143,253,719 91.64% 13,062,976 8.36% 156,316,695 1,288,535 Remuneration disclosure This Report and Accounts complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 and the Listing Rules.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Kevin Sharer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 April 2017 91
