Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Remuneration policy There are no changes proposed to remuneration policy for 2017 from that approved by shareholders at the AGM on 14 May 2015.
For reference the policy is set out in full on pages 83 to 88.
In accordance with the legislation we shall submit a new policy for shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
Application of remuneration policy for 2017 Changes to base salaries for executive directors The base salaries of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are not being increased in 2017.
Jon Lewis salary was set on his appointment to the board on 1 June 2016.
Between the date the previous Chief Executive Officer stepped down from the board to the date of the new Chief Executive Officers appointment, Ian McHoul took on the role of interim CEO and received an acting up allowance equivalent to 100,000 for the period 240,000 per annum.
His salary for the role of Chief Financial Officer last increased on 1 January 2014.
The effective annualised salaries of each of the directors are shown below.
Going forward, the effective date of any salary increases for the executive directors has been changed to 1 April from 2017, in line with all other employees.
2017 2016 % change Jon Lewis 775,000 775,000 n c Ian McHoul as Chief Financial Officer 530,000 530,000 n c Annual bonus measures and targets The following bonus measures and their weightings maximum opportunity as a percentage of base salary have been agreed by the committee for 2017.
The committee approved some changes to the annual bonus for 2017 to simplify the structure and focus management on key business imperatives for 2017.
Measure Jon Lewis Ian McHoul EBITA 75% 62.5% Other Key Financial and Operational Objectives 75% 62.5% Totals 150% 125% Other Key Financial and Operational Objectives include Cash Flow and Cost Savings for both Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and otherwise comprise individual objectives relating to the specific short-term imperatives for their respective roles.
The specific targets against these measures are commercially sensitive and may be subject to revision.
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next years report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Long-term incentive awards Awards with a face value equivalent to 250% of base salary are being made to Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul in 2017 in line with previous years.
In line with 2016, 30% of the award will be subject to a comparative TSR measure, 30% to an EPS performance measure and 40% to a strategic scorecard measure, each of which will be tested over three financial years.
For each measure, 25% of that part of the award is paid for threshold achievement and 100% for maximum achievement with straight-line vesting in between.
TSR will be measured against a peer group comprising Amec Foster Wheeler and UK and international companies against which Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly.
Some changes have been made to the comparator group for 2017 awards compared to 2016 to reflect corporate activity in the sector.
The comparator group for the 2017 awards will therefore be as set out below.
Threshold vesting occurs at median ranking and maximum at upper quartile ranking or higher.
Comparator group in respect of 2017 awards Aecom Technology USA McDermott International USA Aker Solutions Norway Petrofac UK Amec Foster Wheeler UK Saipem Italy Atkins, WS UK SNC-Lavalin Group Canada Chicago Bridge & Iron USA TechnipFMC France USA Fluor USA Tecnicas Reunidas Spain Granite Construction USA Tutor Perini USA Jacobs USA Wood Group John UK KBR USA Worley Parsons Australia The EPS target range will be 50.5 pence per share in 2019 for threshold vesting and 67.1 pence per share for maximum vesting.
These targets recognise the continuing challenging market conditions, particularly for the oil and gas services sector.
In line with policy, the targets and actual EPS will be adjusted to reflect anticipated corporate transactions and may also be adjusted for certain other defined items.
Amec Foster Wheeler 74 Annual report and accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration continued The structure for the strategic scorecard measure, which is designed to drive and reward delivery on key aspects of our overall strategy, is set out below.
The objectives for the 2017 awards will be based on the same areas of the strategy to reflect an ongoing focus on the delivery of operational excellence and business growth as apply to the 2016 awards.
The precise metrics used for each awards, however, reflect the evolving priorities over the relevant performance periods.
The measurement bases that will apply to 2016 and 2017 awards are summarised below.
Strategic objective Measurement basis 2016 awards 2017 awards Operational discipline Roll-out of new strengthened global mandatory Adherence to new strengthened global mandatory procedures and controls procedures and controls Competitiveness Overhead cost savings Administrative expenses as percentage of revenue Balance sheet efficiency Net debt to EBITA ratio for 2018 Free cash flow in 2019 Our people and culture Execution of employment aspects of the strategy Execution of employment aspects of the strategy The specific measures against which performance is assessed and the targets against these are not included in this report because of commercial sensitivity.
These, together with the outcomes, will be fully disclosed, subject to any continuing commercial confidentiality, in the directors remuneration reports for the years in which the awards vest.
Pensions Both Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul receive a cash allowance of 20% of salary in lieu of pension benefit.
They also have life assurance benefit of four times their base annual salary.
Samir Brikhos existing pension arrangements explained below ceased when his employment with Amec Foster Wheeler plc terminated on 31 January 2016.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy for 2017 The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the remuneration policy previously approved by shareholders in 2017 under three different performance levels is shown below.
Jon Lewis Ian McHoul 5 3 2.642 m m 4.061 50.2% Fixed pay Fixed pay 4 47.7% Annual bonus Annual bonus 2 1.758 LTIP 2.705 LTIP 3 37.7% 35.8% 25.1% 2 28.6% 1 25.1% 28.7% 0.654 0.961 1 100% 37.2% 24.7% 100% 35.5% 23.7% 0 0 Fixed element On target Maximum Fixed element On target Maximum Notes 1 Fixed pay is base salary for 2017 plus the value of the pension cash allowance and an estimate of taxable benefits based on 2016 amounts.
2 On target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 66.67% of the maximum annual bonus and 50% of the full LTIP award.
3 Maximum performance would result in the maximum bonus and 100% vesting of LTIP award.
4 LTIP values do not include any change in share price or dividend equivalents.
Changes to Chairmans and non-executive directors fees The fees for the Chairman and the non-executive directors are not being increased for 2017.
2017 2016 % change Chairman 318,000 318,000 n c Board fee 60,500 60,500 n c Audit committee chairman 30,000 30,000 n c Remuneration committee chairman 13,000 13,000 n c HSSEE committee chairman 6,000 6,000 n c Senior Independent Director 5,500 5,500 n c Non-UK director additional travel time 12,100 12,100 n c Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 75 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued The information from this point onwards up to and including the statement of directors share interests and shareholding on page 79 is subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration for 2016 The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each director, together with comparative figures for 2015.
Jon Lewis was appointed to the board on 1 June 2016.
Ian McHoul received an acting up allowance in respect of his role as interim CEO between 18 January and 31 May 2016.
Simon Thompson stepped down from the board in May 2015.
Taxable benefits for the executive directors comprise disability and healthcare insurance, car travel allowance, working lunches, relocation expenses and tax return preparation assistance.
Jon Lewis taxable benefits relate largely to one-off contractual amounts which were agreed as part of his recruitment, comprising relocation expenses 142,000 in respect of his relocation from the US to the UK, and professional fees for pre-employment taxation advice 5,000.
The Sharesave figures shown are the gains made on the exercise of options granted under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme Sharesave.
No Sharesave options were exercised by the executive directors during 2016.
Jon Lewis holds no other director roles.
Ian McHoul continued to be a director of Britvic plc and received fees of 64,069 during the year.
Samir Brikho continued to be a member of the advisory board of Stena AB and a non-executive director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB: during the period he was a director of the Company he received fees of SEK 45,411 in relation to the first appointment and SEK 30,740 in relation to the second.
Such appointments are subject to prior approval of the board.
Directors are permitted to retain fees.
These amounts are not subject to audit and are not included in the single total figure table above.
Amec Foster Wheeler 76 Annual report and accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration continued Total pension entitlements The pension amount shown in the 2016 single total figure of remuneration above comprises the following: Accrued DB pension Value of Cash Total pension at 31 12 16 DB benefit allowance benefit 000 000 000 000 Jon Lewis 90 90 Samir Brikho 49 13 7 20 Ian McHoul 123 123 Samir Brikho had an historic arrangement that provided for a pension payable from age 60 made up of 4.17% of final pensionable salary in respect of service to 31 December 2007 and one-thirtieth of career averaged revalued earnings in respect of each year of service thereafter until the date of leaving on 31 January 2016.
Salary and earnings for pension purposes are subject to a cap, which was 161,000 pa for the tax year 2015 16.
Samir Brikho also received a cash allowance representing 20% of salary above this cap in lieu of further pension benefit.
The cash allowance above relates to the period up to the date he stepped down from the board: the value of his DB benefit is the accrued amount in the year to 31 December 2016.
Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul both received a cash allowance in lieu of pension equal to 20% of base salary during their period of employment in 2016.
Annual bonus The bonus targets and outcomes against the various performance elements, together with the proportion of overall bonus opportunity that related to each, were as follows: Measure Target range Actual Weighting EBITA 335-370m 318m 50% Cash conversion 80 100% 118% 10% Net debt 1,027 727 m 1,021m 15% Use of High Value Execution Centre HVEC n a n a 10% Other strategic objectives n a n a 15% For bonus purposes EBITA after exceptional items which may be disallowed for bonus purposes at the committees discretion is normalised for exchange rate movements and cost of share-based payments: the target and actual figures shown above are before any such adjustments.
The target for the Use of HVEC measure was based on the percentage of addressable man-hours for the company as a whole executed through the HVEC.
Other strategic objectives comprise of a range of individual objectives: for Jon Lewis these related to strategy development, business refocusing and cost reduction, safety and compliance, and for Ian McHoul these included a range of activities relating to debt reduction and financing, as well as his role as acting CEO for the first part of the year.
In the light of the overall company position, the committee has determined that no annual bonus payments will be made to executive directors in respect of 2016, notwithstanding that some of the targets were achieved.
Performance Share Plan The LTIP amount shown in the 2016 single total figure of remuneration is the award made under the Performance Share Plan in 2014.
Vesting was due to take place on 27 March 2017 and was subject to two performance conditions each measured over three-year periods: i earnings per share EPS growth between 2013 and 2016 and ii total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group based on average returns in the final quarter of 2016 compared to those in the corresponding period in 2013.
The two performance conditions operate independently on different parts of the award: half of the basic award is dependent on EPS and the other half on TSR: the matched award depends solely on EPS.
EPS for this measure means the diluted earnings per share expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible amortisation, the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items.
Real growth means in excess of the change in the UK Retail Prices Index for December 2016 compared to December 2013.
The performance achieved against the EPS target and the TSR outcome are as follows: 2013 awards performance measure Threshold 25% vesting Maximum 100% vesting Outcome Percentage of max achieved Real annual compound growth in EPS 5% 10% 5% 0% Total shareholder return ranking Median Upper quartile 21st out of 24 0% Accordingly no shares vested from these awards.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 77 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of share awards during year A share award with a face value of 250% of normal base salary was made to Ian McHoul on 18 March 2016 under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP approved at the 2015 AGM.
The face value of the award is based on the share price at the date of award which was 4.968.
This award was made in the form of a nil-cost option: such awards may normally be exercised up to 18 months after vesting.
On 1 June 2016, following his appointment to the board, a share award with a face value of 250% of base salary was made to Jon Lewis under the LTIP.
The face value of this award was based on the share price at the date of award which was 4.368.
The vesting period for this award runs for three years from Jon Lewis appointment date, in line with the remuneration policy.
The above LTIP awards granted to Ian McHoul and Jon Lewis will vest in March 2019 and June 2019 respectively, subject to the outcome against the performance conditions measured over the three years 2016 to 2018.
30% of the awards are subject to a TSR performance condition, 30% are subject to an EPS performance condition, and 40% are subject to a strategic performance condition as described on page 75.
Any shares delivered on vesting exercise will then be held in trust and subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period in line with policy.
As disclosed when he joined the business in connection with the terms of his recruitment, on 1 June 2016 a further award over 68,681 shares was made to Jon Lewis via a separate award agreement in accordance with the directors remuneration policy the Recruitment Award.
This Recruitment Award was to Jon Lewis to compensate him for remuneration foregone on leaving his previous employer.
This Recruitment Award will vest in equal tranches on the first three anniversaries of Jon Lewis appointment to the board 1 June 2017, 2018 and 2019 : there are no other performance conditions attached to the Recruitment Award.
The Recruitment Award has been structured broadly on a like for like basis with remuneration foregone.
The Recruitment Award will normally lapse if Jon Lewis leaves employment with Amec Foster Wheeler plc before it vests, or if he serves or is served notice, or is subject to disciplinary action at the time of vesting.
The Recruitment Award was made as a conditional share award and will vest automatically.
It is not pensionable and is not transferrable other than with the consent of the committee, and no new issue shares or treasury shares will be used to satisfy the Recruitment Award.
Certain amendments to the Recruitment Awards which are to Jon Lewis advantage other than minor amendments may not be made without prior shareholder approval.
In the event of a change of control and in the absence of an exchange of awards being agreed, the Recruitment Award will normally vest.
If there is a variation of share capital such as a rights issue or consolidation, the number of class of shares subject to the Recruitment Award may be adjusted.
The value of this award will be included in the single total figure of remuneration table for the years in which it vests, consistent with our reporting of other share awards.
The table below summarises the share awards made during the year.
Face value Percentage vesting at Plan Type of interest awarded 000 threshold performance Number of shares End of performance period Jon Lewis LTIP Conditional award 1,938 25% 443,566 31 December 2018 Jon Lewis Recruitment Award Conditional award 300 68,681 Ian McHoul LTIP Nil-cost options 1,325 25% 266,706 31 December 2018 Calculated based on the share price at the date of award of 4.368, 4.368 and 4.968 respectively.
The TSR measure is based on Amec Foster Wheelers ranking against the comparator group set out below based on the average share price over the final quarter of 2018 compared to the corresponding period in 2015.
The threshold for any vesting to occur is that Amec Foster Wheeler needs to be ranked at median or higher.
If upper quartile ranking is achieved, full vesting will occur.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these threshold and maximum targets.
Comparator group in respect of 2016 awards Aecom Technology USA McDermott International USA Aker Solutions Norway Petrofac UK Amec Foster Wheeler UK Saipem Italy Babcock International UK Schlumberger USA Cameron International USA SNC-Lavalin Group Canada Chicago Bridge & Iron USA Technip France Fluor USA Tecnicas Reunidas Spain Granite Construction USA Tutor Perini USA Halliburton USA Wood Group John UK Jacobs USA Worley Parsons Australia KBR USA Amec Foster Wheeler 78 Annual report and accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration continued The committee has discretion to make adjustments to the list when necessary to take account of mergers, acquisitions or other such events.
In April 2016 Cameron International was acquired by Schlumberger and the committee agreed to remove Cameron International from the comparator group.
In January 2017 Technip and FMC merged to create TechnipFMC.
The committee agreed that the TSR of Technip will be tracked up until the merger, following which the TSR of the new merged TechnipFMC entity will be used.
The EPS measure is based on the earnings per share of Amec Foster Wheeler plc achieved in the final year of the performance period, being 2018.
EPS for this purpose is defined as the diluted earnings per share of continuing operations expressed to one decimal place of Amec Foster Wheeler plc before goodwill and intangible amortisation, asbestos-related costs and interest expense net of insurance recoveries, the charge or credits associated with executive share awards and exceptional items at the committees discretion.
Threshold 25% vesting will occur if EPS equals 67.8p and maximum 100% vesting will occur if EPS equals or is greater than 73.8p, with straight-line vesting for a result between these targets.
The number of shares vesting as determined by the performance conditions outcomes will be increased to take account of reinvested dividends in the period between award and vesting.
Details of the specific companies included in the TSR comparator groups and EPS targets for both the 2014 and 2015 awards were included in the directors remuneration reports for those years and may be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Leaving arrangements for Samir Brikho Payments were made, in accordance with his service agreement and or the Companys remuneration policy, to Samir Brikho during 2016 after he ceased employment with Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
All details relating to these payments were disclosed in full in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
No loss of office payments or other payments to former directors were made during 2016.
Directors share interests and shareholding requirements As at 31 December 2016 or in the case of Samir Brikho as at the date he ceased employment, the beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company of the directors and their connected persons were as follows: Unvested share options Unvested share options subject not subject to performance Vested but unexercised to performance conditions conditions Sharesave and Legally owned shares share options LTIP and PSP awards Recruitment Award John Connolly 92,830 Samir Brikho 1,975,674 Jon Lewis 443,566 68,681 Ian McHoul 329,538 527,871 2,206 Neil Carson 5,000 Colin Day 23,966 Linda Adamany 3,100 Stephanie Newby 21,899 Kent Masters 70,000 Roy Franklin Held as ADSs Neil Carson retired from the board on 31 December 2016.
Details of the unvested options for Jon Lewis and Ian McHoul included in the table above are as follows: Date of award Type of award Number of shares Exercise price Vesting date Exercise period Jon Lewis June 2016 LTIP 443,566 Nil June 2019 June 2016 Recruitment Award 22,894 Nil June 2017 June 2016 Recruitment Award 22,894 Nil June 2018 June 2016 Recruitment Award 22,893 Nil June 2019 Ian McHoul October 2013 Sharesave 1,046 8.60 January to June 2017 March 2014 PSP 119,908 Nil March 2017 to September 2018 May 2015 LTIP 141,257 Nil March 2018 to September 2019 October 2015 Sharesave 1,160 6.795 January to June 2019 March 2016 LTIP 266,706 Nil March 2019 to September 2020 All of Samir Brikhos unvested options lapsed on 31 January 2016 on cessation of employment.
The PSP award made to Ian McHoul in March 2014 lapsed on 27 March 2017 due to the minimum performance requirements not having been met.
No options were exercised by any of the directors during the 2016 financial year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 79 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued On 4 January 2017 John Connolly, Ian McHoul and Colin Day acquired 1,442, 28 and 372 shares respectively: all of these were in lieu of the interim dividend paid on 4 January 2017 per the dividend reinvestment plans operated by the nominee accounts in which the relevant shares are held.
There were no other changes in the directors interests in the share capital of the Company between 31 December 2016 and 10 April 2017.
As at 10 April 2017, the shareholdings of each of the directors was less than 1% of the total shares outstanding.
No director has used any of their shareholdings in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans.
Guidelines are in place requiring executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team to build up and retain a holding of Amec Foster Wheeler plc shares received from incentive plans or purchased and held by them directly or via a nominee.
The level of targeted shareholding is 250% of salary for executive directors and 125% for other senior executives.
Unvested awards or options, or options which have vested but have not yet been exercised, do not count towards the holding.
Until such time as the target level is reached, executive directors are obliged to retain a minimum of 50% post tax of any shares vesting to them.
Based on the average share price and salaries during December 2016, the legally-owned shares shown above represented the following percentages of base salary: Jon Lewis 0% Ian McHoul 286% Ian McHouls shareholding is in excess of the shareholding requirement.
Jon Lewis shareholding is currently below the targeted shareholding level due to his recent appointment to the board in June 2016.
Under the shareholding guideline Jon Lewis will be required to retain at least 50% of any shares which vest from his outstanding unvested share awards until such time that his shareholding increases sufficiently.
There is no shareholding requirement for the Chairman or non-executive directors.
Total shareholder return This graph compares the TSR performance of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, assuming dividends are re-invested, with the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 over the period 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2016.
The FTSE 250 has been selected as the comparator for the purpose of this chart as it is an all sector index of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return 400 Amec Foster Wheeler FTSE 250 Index 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Source: Datastream 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 400 350 300 250 Amec Foster Wheeler 80 Annual report and accounts 2016 200 150 100 50 0 Annual report on remuneration continued Chief Executive Officers pay in the last eight years Single total figure of remuneration Bonus awarded as a LTIP vesting as a CEO 000 % of maximum % of maximum 2009 Samir Brikho 4,103 58% 100% 2010 Samir Brikho 9,295 97% 80% 2011 Samir Brikho 4,590 64% 71% 2012 Samir Brikho 3,092 57% 50% 2013 Samir Brikho 2,370 52% 19% 2014 Samir Brikho 1,837 41% 0% 2015 Samir Brikho 1,265 0% 0% 2016 1 January to 17 January Samir Brikho 72 0% 0% 2016 18 January to 31 May Ian McHoul 285 0% 0% 2016 1 June to 31 December Jon Lewis 707 0% 0% The figures for 2016 show amounts by each individual who served as Chief Executive Officer during the year, for the periods only that they held the Chief Executive Officer position.
For Samir Brikho, this was the period 1 January to 17 January 2016: for Ian McHoul this was the period 18 January 2016 to 31 May 2016: and for Jon Lewis this was the period 1 June 2016 to 31 December 2016.
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change between 2015 and 2016 in the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and bonus compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those elements of pay for a comparator group of employees.
The committee has selected employees in the UK as the comparator group as they have broadly the same structure of remuneration and to eliminate the impact of exchange rate movements if employees in other countries were included.
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 2016 2015 % change 2016 2015 % change 2016 2015 % change Chief Executive Officer 775 954 -19% 165 48 244% 0 0 0% UK staff 2.6% 0% -84.2% The salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus received by Jon Lewis have been annualised to reflect amounts receivable for a full years service in role, with the exception of the relocation expenses and pre-employment tax advice received by Jon Lewis which have not been annualised given the one-off nature of these benefits relating to his appointment.
The year-on-year change for UK staff taxable benefits is based on data for tax years ending in 2016 and 2015 averaged over the number of employees in receipt of those benefits.
The year-on-year changes for UK staff salary and bonus are based on the aggregate amounts paid in each year divided by the average number of employees in that year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 81 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Relative importance of spending on pay The table and chart below illustrate the relative importance of spending on pay compared to distributions to shareholders dividends and share buy-back and other disbursements from profit or cash flow that are considered by the directors to be the most material expenditures in relation to the Companys strategy.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Staff costs see page 127 2,138 2,137 1,642 Dividends and share buy-backs see page 157 113 167 124 Acquisitions see pages 160 to 163 2 85 1,983 Relative importance 2.5 of spending on pay bn 2016 2.0 2015 2014 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 Staff costs Dividends and share buy-backs Acquisitions Shareholder voting on remuneration policy and report at last AGM The latest directors remuneration policy was put to shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 14 April 2015.
Votes were cast as follows: Shares for including Resolution discretionary % in favour Shares against % against Shares withheld To approve the remuneration policy 253,956,672 98.90 2,824,184 1.10 1,770,186 At the last annual general meeting held on 27 April 2016 votes were cast as follows: Shares for including Resolution discretionary % in favour Shares against % against Shares withheld To approve the remuneration report 245,509,722 99.08 2,273,553 0.92 20,024,427 The committee do not consider that the votes against the above resolutions were substantial requiring any specific explanation or action in response.
Amec Foster Wheeler 82 Annual report and accounts 2016 Remuneration policy Introduction The following sets out the policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
References to Samir Brikhos employment are historic Samir Brikho left the Company on 17 January 2016.
Jon Lewis was appointed as the new Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2016.
Remuneration policy table This table sets out the components of the directors remuneration package except on recruitments or promotions which are described separately.
It is also part of this policy that we will honour payments or awards crystallising after the effective date of this policy 14 May 2015 but arising from commitments entered into prior to that date or at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company.
Executive directors Component and how this supports strategy How this operates Maximum Salary Reviewed annually from 1 January.
Interim reviews only in case of significant changes of responsibility.
Salary increases for Enables the business executive directors will to attract and retain not normally exceed the individuals with the average increase awarded personal attributes, to other employees based skills and experience in the same country.
required to deliver Increases may be above our strategy.
This this level if there is an also applies to the increase in the scale, other elements of scope, complexity or fixed remuneration responsibility of the below pension and role or to allow the base other benefits.
salary of newly appointed executives to move towards market norms as their experience and contribution increase.
Pension and Normally through a fixed allowance, some or all of which can be paid in the form of a company To allow for the fluctuating related benefits contribution to a defined contribution pension plan with any balance paid as a cash supplement.
value of defined benefit Where the plan permits, individuals may also sacrifice on a like-for-like basis part of base salary in pension accrual and cost return for an enhanced company contribution.
Pension plan membership is available on the same of life assurance, the basis as for senior employees generally in the country in which the individual is based and there aggregate value of those are no special arrangements for directors.
arrangements, company contribution to a defined Life assurance is also provided.
contribution arrangement and cash supplement will not exceed 50% of annual salary.
Other benefits Standard benefits typically include disability and healthcare insurance including cover for eligible The actual value of these dependants, car travel allowance, working lunches and tax return preparation assistance.
benefits will vary from time to time depending, Additional benefits may be paid where an individual is required by the Company to relocate.
This can among other things, on include temporary housing prior to full relocation and a one-off payment to cover specific costs of the cost of insuring them.
moving home or an allowance of an equivalent amount paid for a fixed number of years.
The intention is that the Where individuals are required to work in another country on a temporary basis, housing, travel, tax aggregate cost would be in equalisation and cost of living adjustments may also be paid in line with the Companys normal policy line with market practice for employees generally.
and will not exceed 100% of annual salary where Other benefits may be provided from time to time where the committee feels it appropriate and there is a relocation in line with market practice to do so in the country in which the director is based.
expatriate element The Company may from time to time operate other arrangements that are open to employees in and 20% of annual a particular country for example relating to savings, discounted purchase, salary sacrifice, holiday salary otherwise.
buy and sell, service recognition awards that executive directors may participate in on the same basis as other employees in the country in which they are based.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 83 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Component and how this supports strategy How this operates Maximum Annual bonus Calculated by reference to a mix of financial and other strategic objectives set by the remuneration The maximum opportunity Rewards the committee that vary from year to year and may vary between individuals to reflect the business is 150% of annual salary achievement of priorities associated with each role.
Profit-based measures will have a weighting of not less than 50%.
for the Chief Executive annual financial The committee will determine for each year threshold and target levels of bonus that will be payable Officer and 125% for other and delivery of for meeting predefined performance levels against the objectives set for the year.
Target bonus will executive directors.
other strategic not exceed two-thirds of maximum.
25% of any bonus earned is paid in the form of Amec Foster Wheeler shares deferred for three years during which it is subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for the year for which the shares were earned are required to be restated for a correction of a prior period error or, at the committees discretion, for personal misconduct.
The balance of the bonus is normally paid as a cash allowance following the end of the year to which the payment relates.
However, to facilitate higher levels of executive share ownership, the bonus may, at the directors option and subject to the committees agreement, be in the form of nil-cost options over company shares of equivalent value instead of cash payment.
The vesting is deferred for three months during which it is forfeit if the individual is a bad leaver.
Such options have a six-month exercise window.
The committee has discretion to amend performance measures and targets or adjust bonus pay-outs to take account of exceptional items, unbudgeted acquisitions or disposals, and other aspects of performance which have not been specifically identified in the targets.
Long-Term Annual awards of conditional awards or nil-cost options with an 18-month exercise period after Award of shares with a Incentive Plan vesting.
Following vesting and, where relevant, exercise all shares net of tax will be held in trust face value at the time of Incentivises directors for two years from the original vesting date.
During this period shares will not normally be able to be award of up to 250% of to achieve long-term transferred and may be subject to claw-back in the event that the accounts for any year over which the annual salary ignoring value creation and shares were earned are required to be restated for correction of a prior period error.
There is further dividend equivalents.
alignment with provision to reduce leaver awards retrospectively on an individual basis as set out below.
long-term returns Awards are subject to EPS growth and relative TSR measured over a three-year period with equal to shareholders.
weighting on each measure and any additional strategic measures that the committee may consider appropriate for any particular set of awards.
Additionally, awards are subject to a provision that allows the committee to reduce vesting in the event of a materially adverse misstatement of results for any year of the performance period, to correct errors or for personal misconduct.
The number of shares vesting from these awards is increased to take account of reinvested dividends.
The committee will determine the applicable EPS range for each set of awards, with 25% of the relevant portion of the awards vesting if the bottom of the range is achieved and 100% if the top is achieved, with straight-line vesting between.
EPS is adjusted for certain defined items and calculated on a consistent basis between base and final years.
The committee will determine the TSR comparator group for each set of awards with 25% of the relevant portion of the awards vesting if Amec Foster Wheelers ranking is at median and 100% if it is at upper quartile, with straight-line vesting between.
The committee, at its discretion, may reduce or eliminate the portion of the LTIP determined by reference to relative TSR if it is not satisfied with the underlying financial performance of the business during the performance period.
The committee may amend the performance conditions if an event happens which the committee considers to be of a genuine, exceptional nature so that amended performance condition s would be a fairer measure of performance and would be materially neither easier nor more difficult to satisfy.
In the event of a change of control and in the absence of an exchange of awards being agreed, awards will normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been met at that time.
The committee has discretion to measure performance based solely against one of the performance conditions.
Sharesave Sharesave is an employee share plan under which discounted options over Amec Foster Wheeler The maximum monthly Provides alignment shares are granted linked to a savings arrangement with the options becoming exercisable at the savings level under any with shareholders end of the savings period.
The exercise price can be up to a 20% discount to the share price at the concurrent Sharesave interests.
time of offer and the number of shares is that which can be bought at the exercise price with the plans is in line with expected proceeds of the savings contract.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in this the limit set by the UK plan on the same basis as other employees in the country in which they are located.
Invitations government from time to participate may be made annually.
to time for such plans currently 500 per Sharesave is not subject to performance conditions as the terms of the plan are subject to tax month or the equivalent legislation in the UK and certain other countries including the US that preclude this.
Sharesave options become exercisable, to the extent of savings made, in the event of a change of control.
Amec Foster Wheeler 84 Annual report and accounts 2016 Remuneration policy continued Chairman and non-executive directors Note: The remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer under delegated authority from the board rather than by the remuneration committee.
Component and how this supports strategy How this operates Maximum Fees Non-executive directors receive only fees for their services and do not participate in any of the incentive Increases in the To attract and or benefit schemes of the group.
Fee structure comprises a base fee and additional fees to reflect time Chairmans fee will not retain individuals commitment and responsibility of specific roles for example, SID and committee chair.
Additional normally exceed the with the personal fees may also be paid to directors not resident in the UK to recognise the additional travelling time average increase awarded attributes, skills and in attending meetings.
experience required The Chairman, whilst a non-executive director, will not participate in any of the incentive or benefit The companys articles to determine schemes of the group.
currently set an aggregate strategy and limit of 600,000 for base governance, to apply Directors including the Chairman are reimbursed for expenses relating to performing their duties fees for non-executive executive oversight and any tax thereon.
Total fees will and to represent not exceed market norms.
Selection of performance targets Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set so that the target level of bonus is paid normally for achieving the Companys short-range plan.
To achieve maximum bonus, higher targets have to be met.
In determining targets, the committee takes account of the general business circumstances including the perceived difficulty inherent in the short-range plan and the need to balance stretch against risk.
Profit is chosen as the most appropriate measure of the Companys short-term performance and the cash measures are chosen to reflect the conversion of profit to cash across the year.
Strategic targets are set to reflect other key business objectives during the year.
EPS targets under the Long-Term Incentive Plan are set to reflect the Companys longer-term growth objectives at a level where the maximum represents genuine outperformance against expectations.
EPS is chosen as the most appropriate measure of absolute growth in line with the Companys strategy.
TSR is chosen to measure relative long-term performance against a peer group comprising UK and international companies against which Amec Foster Wheeler competes directly.
Other strategic targets may be set to reflect other key business objectives during the particular three-year cycle.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 85 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Recruitment pay policy Item External hire Internal promotion to the board Base salary Take account of current terms and any premium required Take account of current terms, relativities with other board to secure high-calibre appointment.
members and whether any previous plc board experience.
If initial salary is below market benchmark for role, would expect to move progressively to that level over next 24 months based on performance in role.
Pension and Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with related benefits with standard policy.
Other benefits Normally in line with standard policy but may include special Existing arrangements may be continued, otherwise in line with transitional arrangements eg overseas hire where dependants standard policy.
Annual bonus Inclusion in annual bonus for year of hire based on Where relevant, increase existing bonus opportunity to level pro-rated salary.
applicable to new role and apply pro-rata from date of promotion including any amendment to performance measures.
Maximum opportunity as a percentage of salary no greater than that for Chief Executive Officer.
Long-Term Inclusion in LTIP for year of hire subject to same performance Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy allowing for an Incentive plan conditions as others but with three-year vesting period running additional award to be made in year of appointment to reflect the from date of joining.
timing of the appointment and the extent of other enhancements to remuneration terms.
Previous awards will continue on their Maximum opportunity in line with standard policy.
Sharesave Inclusion in next offer subject to meeting any qualifying period Inclusion in next offer subject to any restrictions as a result of service that applies for new employees generally.
Notice periods Where it is necessary to secure the services of a particular Apply standard policy immediately including, if relevant, individual, the remuneration committee has discretion to agree reducing any more favourable existing terms.
initial notice periods of not more than 24 months reducing to normal policy level over a period not more than 12 months.
One-off Where individuals forfeit bonus or long-term incentive Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including arrangements payments from their former employer as a result of resigning temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required to join Amec Foster Wheeler, then the committee has the to relocate to take up the new role.
Alternatively a temporary cash discretion to make additional one-off awards in the form allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which equates of cash and or shares and subject to performance and or to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise have been other conditions, including holding periods, as appropriate.
These amounts will include any grossing-up for tax.
The maximum amounts to be awarded would be based on an estimate of actual loss discounted for any accelerated payment and the extent to which the loss is otherwise compensated for by the new terms overall.
Individuals may be compensated for actual expenses, including temporary accommodation, in the event that they are required to relocate to take up the new role.
Alternatively a temporary cash allowance may be paid for a limited period of time which equates to the estimated relocation cost that would otherwise have been reimbursed.
Amec Foster Wheeler 86 Annual report and accounts 2016 Remuneration policy continued Policy on notice and payment for loss of office Newly appointed executive directors will be employed on contracts that include the following provisions: X the individual will be required to give six months notice if they wish to leave and the Company will give up to 12 months notice of termination other than for gross misconduct or other circumstances where employment may be terminated without notice X at the Companys discretion, the individual may be placed on garden leave for some or all of the period between the giving of notice and termination in which case the Company will continue to pay salary and benefits for the garden leave period but will not make new share or other incentive awards X at any time, at the Companys discretion, employment may be terminated before the end of the required notice period by making a payment in lieu of the balance and subject to mitigation as described more fully in the table below In the event of long-term incapacity, employment would not normally be terminated so long as the executive was entitled to payments under the Companys group income protection insurance arrangements but the executive would be required to stand down from their role and as a director.
Payment for loss of office will be determined according to the following principles set out below and, for the current executive directors, having regard to their existing contractual terms as described following the table.
Notice The executive will receive base salary, pension and other benefits for any part of the notice period worked and any period of garden leave.
On termination, the executive will be entitled to payment for any accrued but untaken holiday pay.
The Company may elect to pay a sum in lieu of notice for all or any part of the notice period, calculated by reference to the value of salary, pension and other contractual benefits excluding bonus.
In determining the payments to be made and the structure of such payments, the Company will have regard to the executives ability to mitigate their loss.
In respect of any defined benefit pension rights, an augmentation of benefits for the relevant part of the notice period may be made.
The committee has discretion to continue to provide certain benefits to the end of the notice period rather than including them in the payment in lieu.
Where the employment is being terminated by the Company for gross misconduct or other circumstances entitling the Company to treat the contract as at an immediate end termination will be immediate and no payment in lieu of notice will be made.
Annual bonus No bonus will be paid in the event of termination for gross misconduct.
In all other circumstances, the committee will consider whether it is appropriate to make a bonus payment for the year in question taking into account all relevant circumstances, including performance and conduct.
Payment will usually be determined and paid in cash at the normal time.
Deferred bonus In the event of termination due to misconduct by the individual, the Remuneration Committee may determine that some or all, from prior years at its discretion, of the deferred shares will be forfeit.
In the case of death the shares will be released in full to the estate as soon as practicable thereafter.
In other circumstances, they will continue to be subject to the deferral period and only released at the end of it providing no further claw-back applies.
Long-Term All unvested awards will lapse on leaving in the event of termination for gross misconduct or other bad leaver circumstances.
Incentive Plan An example of a bad leaver would be an individual resigning in order to take up a position with a competitor.
Awards will immediately vest in full in the event of death.
In other cases, unvested awards will be pro-rated for service, which may include any period for which payment was made in lieu.
For pre-2015 awards, provided the associated investment shares remain lodged, matched awards will normally be retained in full unless the committee decide to pro-rate for service.
A further reduction may be made at the committees discretion to take account of relevant circumstances at the time of leaving.
The retained awards will vest in the normal way, taking account of the relevant performance conditions, and at the normal time subject to the committee being satisfied at that time that the individual remains a good leaver.
Other Redundancy pay in line with statutory provisions or those applying to employees generally in the country in which the director is based will be provided in the event of termination due to redundancy.
The cost of legal, tax or other advice incurred by the individual in connection with the termination and or support with seeking alternative employment may be met up to a maximum of 100,000.
Additional payments may be made where required to settle legal disputes or as consideration for new or amended post-employment restrictions.
Where an individual is in receipt of relocation or expatriation benefits, the costs of actual expenses incurred in relation to any arrangements that are subject to term contracts may continue to be reimbursed for up to six months or, at the Companys discretion, a one-off payment made to cover the costs of premature cancellation.
The cost of repatriation will also be covered where this was part of the original expatriation terms.
Sharesave options lapse unless the director leaves because of specified good leaver reasons in which case they can be exercised for a limited period, to the extent of savings made to the date of exercise.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 87 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Remuneration continued Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are both employed under contracts dated April 2007 and September 2008 respectively with notice periods of twelve months from the Company and which require them to give six months notice of resignation.
The contracts permit for payment to be made in lieu of all or part of the required notice period at the Companys discretion but there is no prescribed methodology for calculating such payment in lieu or applying mitigation.
Should circumstances arise where notice is given and the executive is not required to work all or part of the notice period, the terms of the existing contracts would be honoured.
The individuals may be placed on garden leave for part of the notice period in which case the committee may determine that it is appropriate to pay an element of bonus for that garden leave period.
Existing directors service contracts The notice provisions for Samir Brikho and Ian McHoul are described above.
There are no specified change-of-control provisions.
The Chairmans engagement may be terminated on six months notice on either side.
The contracts of non-executive directors may be terminated by the individual at any time.
There are no specific provisions for compensation in the event of early termination by the Company.
Our practice is that all directors submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in company and shareholder views Our approach to the annual review of base salaries is to take account of personal performance, company performance, and pay levels more broadly within the Company.
External benchmarking is also taken into account, particularly for new appointments.
Any proposals to change remuneration policy are considered against the best practice guidelines produced by shareholder bodies and major shareholders are consulted directly when formulating any proposals for significant changes.
The Chairman of the Company and the chairman of the remuneration committee make themselves available at any time and also at each annual general meeting to discuss any issues raised.
Differences in policy for directors compared to other employees The structure of remuneration for executive directors is in line with other senior management.
The primary differences compared to other employees are the structure of variable pay, which for senior management is in the form of performance-related incentives and for other employees is largely in the form of overtime and allowances reflecting the different emphases of the roles, and in the level of accrual under defined benefit arrangements.
Illustrations of application of policy The total remuneration for each of the executive directors that could result from the proposed remuneration policy in 2015 under three different performance levels is shown below.
Samir Brikho Ian McHoul 6 3 2.643 m 5.069 m 50% 5 Fixed pay Fixed pay 47% Annual bonus Annual bonus 4 2 1.760 3.399 LTIP LTIP 40% 37% 3 28% 25% 24% 21% 2 1 0.654 1.243 100% 39% 25% 100% 39% 25% 1 0 0 Fixed element On target Maximum Fixed element On target Maximum Notes 1 Fix ed pay is base salary for 2015 plus the value of pension and benefits.
The value of pension and benefits in kind is taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 2015.
4 LTIP values ignore any change in share price or dividend equivalents.
Amec Foster Wheeler 88 Annual report and accounts 2016
