Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Directors Remuneration Report Report of the Remuneration Committee Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for our financial year ended 31 March 2016.
Remuneration Policy Prior to our IPO, we undertook a full review of our remuneration structure to ensure that, as a public company, we would be operating within a framework consistent with best practice, while being mindful of the need to pay no more than is necessary to retain and attract high-quality talent.
The resulting remuneration policy the Policy is straightforward, transparent and in keeping with the strategic and financial objectives of the business: it delivers market competitive packages to the senior executives at base level and rewards the achievement of stretching targets at the other end.
The aim is simple to align executive pay Brian McBride with the interests of shareholders and to promote the long-term Chairman, Remuneration Committee success of the AO Group for all stakeholders.
Put simply, we pay for performance and we will not reward failure.
Our Directors Remuneration Report sets out details of the Performance and reward for 2015 16 remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 65 to 69, describes how the remuneration policy is being implemented for describes how the policy has been implemented in the year the financial year ending 31 March 2017 and discloses the amounts under review.
It will be the subject of an advisory vote at the paid to them in the financial year ended 31 March 2016. forthcoming AGM.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at our During the course of the year, the combined role of Chief Operating AGM on 17 July 2014.
There are no changes to the policy previously Officer and Chief Financial Officer, held by Steve Caunce, was split approved but, for ease of reference, this is set out in full for shareholders and Mark Higgins was appointed as CFO, with Steve continuing information on pages 59 to 64.
The Annual Report on Remuneration as COO.
One of the main activities of the Committee this year was set out on pages 65 to 69 describes how the policy has been therefore setting the remuneration package for Mark, ensuring implemented in the year under review and how it will be implemented it was in line with Policy and appropriately competitive.
Further for the year ahead.
The Annual Report on Remuneration along with the details on his package and in particular, the elements of his variable Remuneration Committee Chairmans Annual Statement will be the pay, are disclosed on pages 66 and 67. subject of an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with Policy, this years annual bonus scheme consisted mainly of financial targets relating to both the UK business and the Europe segment, addressing both top line growth and profit.
The Companys financial performance missed the thresholds set and therefore no bonus was payable for financial performance.
However, 10% of the maximum bonus was payable for meeting a key strategic objective, which was the successful launch of the AO business in a further country, and Im pleased to report that this was achieved with the launch of AO.
nl, as described elsewhere in this report.
Details of bonuses paid are disclosed on page 65 and 66.
As a recently floated company there were no LTIP awards which had performance periods ending during the financial year.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Approach to Remuneration for 2016 17 Non-Executives Executives The base fee for the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman For the year ahead base salaries have been reviewed and neither has been reviewed during the year and has been increased to 50,000, John Roberts, nor Steve Caunce will receive a salary increase.
The to recognise the increasing time and commitment given to the business Committee has set the base salary level for Mark Higgins at 300,000. and the added complexity of the roles given the international dimension We anticipate that there will be increases to the level of basic salary for of the business.
Fees for additional responsibilities such as chairing the next two to three years as Mark continues to grow into the role and committees and for holding the role of Senior Independent Director to ensure his salary level and package overall are positioned at the remain unchanged.
appropriate level relative to executive colleagues.
Other elements of fixed pay remain unchanged.
As is disclosed elsewhere in the Annual Report, Richard Rose will step down as Chairman at the AGM and Geoff Cooper will be appointed In terms of variable pay, the Executives will be entitled to participate to the Board on 1 July 2016 to replace him, subject to re-election at in the annual bonus scheme where, again, performance conditions that meeting.
Geoffs proposed fee level has been set at 165,000 have been set in line with the Companys strategic and financial goals.
This is a consolidated all-inclusive fee for all Board Financial metrics including revenue, Adjusted EBITDA and cash responsibilities, including chairing the Nomination Committee.
flow represent the majority of targets.
Remuneration Committee constitution Previously, the CEO and the COO have requested to waive their During the year under review, Bill Holroyd retired from the Board and entitlement to participate in the Companys Executive PSP, due to the also from the Committee.
He was replaced with Rudi Lamprecht and size of their existing shareholdings.
However, we now think the time we continue to be supported by Marisa Cassoni, our Audit Committee is right for them both to be aligned in the same long-term incentive Chair.
The Remuneration Committee now meets the independence arrangement alongside their executive colleagues.
It is intended that criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code following these they will be granted awards of shares with a value equivalent to 150% changes.
As with previous years, together we will continue to ensure of salary at the grant date, in line with normal policy.
that the remuneration of our key Executives is appropriate, transparent and aligns long-term strategic objectives with the corporate culture For Mark Higgins, the Committee intends to make a PSP award throughout the organisation and with the interests of shareholders.
of 300% of salary following Marks promotion to the Board.
The Committee is presently minded to approve a similar level of During the year to 31 March 2016 there were three formal meetings awards in the next two years, depending on Company and his own of the Remuneration Committee, one of which Rudi Lamprecht was performance.
This enhanced award, in line with the Policy, reflects unable to attend but otherwise full attendance was achieved.
the initial below-median salary positioning, and so ensures that in achieving a market competitive overall package, a higher proportion Shareholder feedback of his overall remuneration is share based and subject to long term The Remuneration Committee recognises that the fostering of a performance.
It will ensure that Mark has strong alignment of interest close relationship with shareholders can complement the work of the with shareholders from the onset of his Board-level career and has the Committee in developing the remuneration policy and welcomes any opportunity of building a significant shareholding subject to achieving feedback that shareholders may have.
I will be available at the AGM on stretching performance targets.
His current shareholding level is 21 July 2016 to answer any questions shareholders may have regarding relatively fide minimis.
the work of the Remuneration Committee.
The performance conditions for this years PSP grant comprise a relative TSR metric and Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth Brian McBride targets.
The Committee believes these metrics provide the appropriate Chairman, Remuneration Committee balance vis--vis the long-term growth of the Company and AO World Plc shareholder return.
The targets themselves are suitably stretching 8 June 2016 and are in line with Companys three-year plan.
Further details of the variable elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors are set out on pages 62 and 63, and 66 and 67.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58
