Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information How the views of shareholders are taken into account The Committee understands that constructive dialogue with shareholders plays a key role in informing the development of a successful remuneration policy and will seek to actively engage This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the with shareholders in these matters.
The Committee will consider remuneration policy for the Company the Policy and has been shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 Any such feedback, plus any additional feedback received from time of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts to time, will be considered as part of the Companys annual review and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UKLAs Listing of the policy.
The Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In addition, when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee The Policy was put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM Chairman will inform major shareholders of these in advance and will and received approval from the vast majority of shareholders.
It is ensure that there is opportunity for discussion, in order that any views intended that the policy will apply for three years from the date of can be properly reflected in the policy formulation process.
For the purpose of clarity and transparency the Policy is being restated in full here.
Slight amendments have been made to the Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere report such that it can be read in the context of the 2016 17 financial in the Group year e. g. the reward scenarios charts have been updated.
The Company does not formally consult with employees on executive remuneration.
However, when setting the remuneration policy for Role of the Remuneration Committee in setting policy Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, approach to reward for, and the pay and employment conditions of, the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors, other employees in the Group.
This process ensures that any increase the Chairman and other senior executives of the Group.
to the pay of Executive Directors is set in an appropriate context and is appropriate relative to increases proposed for other employees.
The Committees overarching aims in setting the remuneration policy The Committee is also provided with periodic updates on employee are to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre senior management remuneration practices and trends across the Group.
and to focus them on the delivery of the Groups strategic and business objectives, to promote a strong and sustainable performance culture, Consideration of the impact of remuneration on risk to incentivise growth and to align the interests of Executive Directors The Committee is committed to keeping the balance between reward and senior managers with those of shareholders.
In promoting these and risk under review to ensure the remuneration policy is aligned objectives the Committee aims to ensure that no more than is appropriately with the risk appetite of the Company.
The Committee necessary is paid and has set a policy framework that is structured remains satisfied that the current Policy is appropriately aligned with so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and the risk profile of the Company and that the remuneration arrangements appropriate risk management.
The Committee also recognises the do not encourage excessive risk taking.
importance of promoting a strong collegiate culture and this is reflected in the approach to consistency in the application of the policy across the whole senior management population.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of our remuneration policy The table below provides a summary of the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Element Base salary Annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP Pension Other benefits Purpose and To aid the recruitment and retention To reward the delivery of annual objectives relating to Intended to align the long-term interests of To aid recruitment and To provide a competitive benefits package link to strategy of high-calibre Executives the business strategy Executives with those of shareholders retention to aid recruitment and retention To reflect experience and expertise To incentivise the delivery of key strategic To provide an appropriate To provide an appropriate level of fixed objectives over the longer term level of fixed income basic income Operation Reviewed annually, effective 1 April All bonus payments are at the discretion of the The PSP was introduced on Admission in 2014.
Executive Directors may Directors are entitled to benefits including Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Committee Awards of free performance shares may be granted receive an employers a car allowance or company car, private executives reflecting their experience and expertise Not pensionable annually in the form of conditional awards or nil pension contribution family medical cover, death in service life Any subsequent increase influenced by a scope of Payable in cash following the end of the year based cost options assurance and other Group-wide benefits the role: b experience and personal performance on targets set at the start of the year Vesting is dependent on performance targets being offered by the Company.
Executive in the role: c average change in total workforce Targets are set and reviewed annually met during the performance period and continued Directors are also eligible to participate salary: d performance of the Company: and e Clawback provisions apply in certain circumstances service of the Directors in any all-employee share plans operated external economic conditions, such as inflation including where there has been a misstatement of A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows by the Company, in line with HMRC Periodic account of practice in comparable accounts, an error in assessing any applicable the Committee to pay dividends on vested shares at guidelines currently prevailing where companies e. g. those of a similar size and performance condition, or in the event of misconduct the time of vesting relevant, on the same basis as for other complexity taken on the part of the participant Clawback provisions apply in certain circumstances eligible employees No clawback or recovery provisions apply including where there has been a misstatement of accounts, an error in assessing any applicable performance condition, or in the event of misconduct on the part of the participant Maximum Annual increases will generally be linked to Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, Maximum limit contained within the plan rules Employers defined The value of benefits may vary from opportunity those of the average of the wider workforce dependent on performance, but a lower maximum is 200% of salary although up to 300% of salary contribution up to 12.75% year to year depending on the cost to Increases beyond those awarded to the wider may be operated may be made in exceptional circumstances of salary the Company workforce in percentage of salary terms may be Normal policy awards may be made at lower awarded in certain circumstances such as where levels than this there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group Framework used The Committee reviews the salaries of Executive Bonuses are based on performance measures with Awards vest based on challenging targets N A N A to assess Directors each year taking due account of all the stretching targets as set and assessed by the Committee measured over a three-year period, the majority performance factors described in how the salary policy operates in its discretion of which will normally be based on financial Financial measures e. g. EBITDA will represent the performance metrics majority of bonus, with any other measures representing Prior to each award the Committee will set the balance threshold and stretch targets along with an Up to 25% of bonus will be payable for achievement of intermediate vesting range.
Details of this will a threshold level of performance be disclosed in advance in the Annual Report Measures and weightings may change each year to on Remuneration unless the targets are reflect any year-on-year changes to business priorities commercially sensitive, in which case they will be disclosed retrospectively No more than 25% vests at threshold Bonuses are based on performance measures with stretching targets.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Performance metrics and targets are carefully selected and aligned to the Companys strategic plan.
Summary of our remuneration policy The table below provides a summary of the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Details of this will a threshold level of performance be disclosed in advance in the Annual Report Measures and weightings may change each year to on Remuneration unless the targets are reflect any year-on-year changes to business priorities commercially sensitive, in which case they will be disclosed retrospectively No more than 25% vests at threshold AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued Awards granted prior to the effective date Share ownership guidelines For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company The Committees policy is to have formal shareholding guidelines for to honour any commitments entered into with Directors prior the Executive Directors which create alignment between their interests to adoption of the Policy.
Annual bonus plan and PSP policy The required level is set at at least 100% of salary.
Where the holding is not The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP according already attained it is required to be achieved through retention of shares to the rules of each respective plan and taking into account normal or the vesting of awards on a net of tax basis from share plans.
market practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number of regards.
While it does not intend to alter the operation of these plans Differences in remuneration policy for Executive frequently, the Committee retains discretion over the following areas Directors compared to other employees working within the Policy : The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider Group Who participates in the plans.
when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The When to make awards and payments.
Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and workforce when determining the annual salary review for the how much of an award should vest.
How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group.
Whether a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan Overall, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more purposes and whether and what proportion of awards vest at the heavily weighted towards performance-related pay than for other time of leaving or at the original vesting date s. employees.
In particular, performance-related long-term incentives How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain are not provided outside of senior management as they are reserved circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring for those considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall or for special dividends.
That said, whilst the use of the PSP is confined What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the annual to the senior managers in the Group, the Company is committed bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
to widespread equity ownership, it has historically rolled out, and intends in the future to roll-out, an all-employee SAYE scheme on The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust an annual basis, in which Executive Directors are eligible to participate targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the on a consistent basis to all other employees.
annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their The level of performance-related pay varies within the Group by grade original intended purpose.
of employee, but the Policy is applied consistently across each grade of the senior management population.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting Reward scenarios The performance metrics and targets that are set for the Executive Under the Policy, a significant proportion of remuneration received Directors via the annual bonus plan and PSP are carefully selected by Executive Directors is variable and dependent on the performance to align closely with the Companys strategic plan.
The charts below illustrate how the total pay opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three different In terms of annual performance targets the bonus is determined on performance scenarios: below target, on-target and maximum, based the basis of performance against specific performance indicators and on implementation of the bonus and PSP for the year ahead.
The precise metrics chosen, along with the weightings of each, may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy from year to year.
The Committee will review the CEO total remuneration opportunity at different performance measures and targets each year and vary them as levels of performance 000 appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
2,000 In terms of the long-term performance targets, PSP awards will be 1,873 set at the time of each grant but will normally include a majority based 36% on financial performance in line with our key objectives of delivering profitable growth and delivering superior returns to our shareholders.
1,500 Where possible, the Committee will disclose the targets for each of the Executive Directors awards in advance in the Annual Report on 1,165 Remuneration, but targets will generally be disclosed retrospectively 36% 29% where they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
The 1,000 Committee will review the choice of performance measures and the 26% appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each PSP grant and will consult with major shareholders in the event of any significant 523 500 proposed change.
100% 45% 28% Challenging targets are set whereby modest rewards are payable for the delivery of threshold levels of performance, rising to maximum 0 rewards for the delivery of substantial out-performance of our Below threshold Target Maximum financial and operating plans.
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP AO World Plc 56% Annual Report and Accounts 2016 62 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Assumptions: COO total remuneration opportunity at different Below threshold fixed pay only i. e. basic salary, benefits and pension.
levels of performance 000 Target fixed pay plus 45% of maximum bonus payout and 50% vesting under the PSP.
2,000 Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of bonus payout and 100% PSP vesting.
1,626 Fixed pay includes the base salaries for each Executive Director 36% applying on 1 April 2016 together with pension at 12.75% of base 1,500 salary, a car allowance of 12,000 for each Executive Director and the value of other taxable benefits such as gym membership and medical cover based on the cost of supplying those benefits.
1,011 Maximum bonus is equivalent to 150% of salary and PSP awards 1,000 36% 29% equivalent to 150% of base salary, save for Mark Higgins where the PSP award in respect of the current financial year is 300% of salary.
26% 456 500 Service contracts and loss of office payments 100% 45% 28% Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The Companys policy is that Executive Directors will be employed on a 0 contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no less than Below threshold Target Maximum one years notice, with the Executive Director required to give no less than one years notice of termination also.
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the termination taking into account the individuals performance and CFO total remuneration opportunity at different levels of performance an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken 000 into account by the Committee when determining amounts payable 56% on following termination.
Our Policy is to reduce compensatory 2,000 payments to former Executive Directors where they receive remuneration from other employment during the notice period.
1,706 The Committee will consider the particular circumstances of each 53% leaver on a case-by-case basis and retains flexibility as to at what 1,500 point, and the extent to which, payments would be reduced.
Details will be provided in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration should such circumstances arise.
1,009 1,000 45% In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: 26% Provision Detailed terms 500 20% Notice period 12 months from both the Company and the 356 Executive Directors 100% 35% 21% Termination Payment in lieu of notice of 115% of base salary, 0 payment which is calculated so as to cover the value of Below threshold Target Maximum contractual benefits and pension, normally subject to mitigation and paid monthly Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP In addition, any statutory entitlements would be paid as necessary Change of control There will be no enhanced provisions on a change of control The Committee may elect to make a lump sum termination payment up to a maximum of 12 months base salary and contractual benefits as part of an Executive Directors termination arrangements where it considers it 56% appropriate to do so.
The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Directors Remuneration Report continued it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and Annual bonus on termination There is no contractual entitlement to any part of the annual shareholders.
Any such additional payments would be based solely on remuneration relinquished when leaving the former bonus on termination.
At the discretion of the Committee, in certain circumstances a pro-rata bonus may become payable at the normal employer and would reflect as far as possible the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of payment date for the period of active service only.
In all cases performance targets would apply, normally measured over the any performance conditions.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys PSP up to the plan limit of whole financial year.
300% of salary to the extent possible.
Awards may also be granted outside of the Companys existing PSP if necessary and as PSP on termination Any share-based entitlements granted under the Companys share permitted under the Listing Rules.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated as a The maximum variable pay that could be awarded excluding buy-out awards is 450% of salary bonus of 150% of salary and good leaver under the plan rules the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms In the event the Committee does class an Executive as a good leaver, the Committee will set out its rationale in the Annual Report on of the approved policy then in force, albeit with the opportunity pro-rated for the period of employment.
Depending on the timing Remuneration following departure.
Awards ordinarily vest on a time pro-rata basis subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets in the first year.
criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing.
The Committee retains discretion to alter the basis of time pro-rating if it deems this appropriate.
For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the former role would be allowed to pay out However, if the time pro-rating is varied from the default position, an explanation will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration following departure.
For the avoidance of doubt, performance conditions will always apply to awards for good leavers, although the obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may Committee may determine that it is appropriate to assess performance over a different period than the default three-year period.
agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Approach to recruitment and promotions For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, The remuneration package for any new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved fee structure policy in force at that time.
policy in force at the time of appointment.
In addition, with specific regard to the recruitment of new Executive Directors whether by Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of external recruitment or internal promotion, the remuneration policy will allow for the following: appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a starting salary at a discount to the mid-market level, a series of increases contracts with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment are usually renewed every three years.
above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded over the proceeding few years, subject to Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either party on three months written notice.
None of the Non-Executive satisfactory individual performance and development in the role.
The Policy permits PSP awards of up to 300% of salary in Directors is entitled to any compensation if their appointment is terminated.
Appointments will be subject to re-election at the AGM.
exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
The Committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements when Non-Executive Directors fees The Non-Executive Directors fees policy is described below: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To recruit and retain high calibre Fees are determined by the Board, with Non-Executive There is no cap on fees.
non-executives Directors abstaining from any discussion or decision Non-Executive Directors in relation to their fees.
are eligible for fee increases Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and during the three-year period do not participate in any of the Companys incentive that the remuneration policy arrangements or receive any pension provision.
operates to ensure they The Chairman is paid a consolidated all-inclusive continue to appropriately fee for all Board responsibilities.
recognise the time The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board commitment of the role, fee, with additional fees payable for chairing the Audit, increases to fee levels for Nomination and Remuneration Committees and for Non-Executive Directors performing the Senior Independent Director role.
in general and fee levels in The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with companies of a similar size reference to the time commitment of the role and and complexity.
market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled to have reimbursed all fees that they reasonably incur in the performance of their duties.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information As set out in our last Annual Report, the Annual Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2016 was structured within the framework of the Policy and has been implemented accordingly.
This will be put to an advisory vote at the Companys AGM on 21 July 2016.
Single figure of total remuneration for 2015 2016 The audited table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company during the period 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 and those earned during the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015.
For Mark Higgins, benefits include gym membership, medical and life assurance, car allowance and private fuel since his appointment on 1 August 2015.
Benefits for the Non-Executive Directors are the values of expenses incurred in connection with attending Board meetings and Company events which the Company has paid for and, in the case of Richard Rose, the value of private use of certain assets.
2 Executive Directors are entitled to company pension contributions of 12.75% of basic salary.
3 For the year 2014 15 we have included a value attributable to SAYE options granted.
John Roberts participated in full in the 2014 AO Sharesave Scheme launched in May 2014 on the same basis as other employees and was granted 7,093 SAYE options.
Steve Caunce participated in full in the 2015 AO Sharesave Scheme launched in January 2015 on the same basis as other employees and was granted 7,929 SAYE options.
However, during the 2015 16 financial year Steve withdrew from the 2015 AO Sharesave Scheme and entered into the 2016 AO Sharesave Scheme and thus we have included a value in this years numbers but have left the numbers for 2014 15 as previously reported.
Mark Higgins has not participated in any SAYE Schemes.
In all cases the SAYE value is calculated by multiplying the number of shares under option by the value of discount in pounds at the time the scheme was launched.
The exercise price for each award was set at 80% of the market value of the share price prior to the scheme launch.
4 No awards were eligible to vest based on performance periods ending in the year 2015 16.
5 Mark Higgins was appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company on 1 August 2015.
Reported remuneration is that earned in the year under review since the date of his appointment.
6 Charles Holroyd resigned as Director of the Company on 21 July 2015.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of variable pay earned in 2015 16 Annual bonus Annual bonus payments The operation of the bonus plan for 2016 17 will be consistent with The annual bonus scheme for the year ended 31 March 2016 consisted the framework detailed in the Policy.
For Executive Directors, the mainly of financial targets relating to the UK business, addressing maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 17 will be capped at 150% both top line growth and profit growth and for the Europe segment of basic salary.
stretching targets for the exit run rates of revenue and profit.
The Companys financial performance missed the thresholds set.
These The performance measures have been selected to support the comprised stretching targets for UK revenue and UK Adjusted EBITDA key strategic objectives and goals of the Company.
For 2016 17 three which were missed by 2.5% and 18% respectively together with financial metrics will be used to determine the bonus payments of the challenging revenue and profitability targets for the Europe segment Executive Directors, split as follows: which were also missed.
However, 10% of the maximum bonus was 1 Group Revenue: payable for meeting a strategic objective, namely the launch of the 2 Group Adjusted EBITDA excluding non-recurring costs relating AO business in a further country, which was achieved during the to major strategic projects and share-based payment charges year with the launch of AO.
attributable to exceptional LTIP Awards which the Board consider one-off in nature : and Long-term incentive payments 3 Cash flow.
No long-term incentive plans were in place prior to IPO and therefore no awards were eligible to vest based on performance ending in the 35% of the maximum bonus will relate to Group Revenue year under review.
achievements, 35% to Group Adjusted EBITDA and a further 10% to the cash-flow performance target.
In addition, 20% of the notional Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 17 bonus pool will be subject to an assessment of performance against Salary key strategic milestones.
The performance metrics are stand-alone The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed shortly prior to the and will be assessed independently.
end of financial year under review and no increase was awarded to John Roberts or Steve Caunce.
The Committee has approved a salary In accordance with Policy, no more than 25% of the maximum for Mark Higgins for the current financial year, based on his broad bonus entitlement will be payable at threshold level: for on target duties as CFO.
The Committee expects that there will be material performance across the Group 45% will be payable, rising to 100% increases for the next two to three years based on both Company of maximum for significantly outperforming the Groups plans and and his individual performance and as his experience grows.
consensus forecasts, based on the Committees assessment of achievement against the targets set.
The Executive Directors will next be eligible for a salary review in early 2017, with any changes to be effective from 1 April 2017.
For The Committee considers that the targets themselves, in relation to the comparison, the average salary increase provided to UK employees 2016 17 financial year, are commercially sensitive and therefore plans in April 2016 was 3%.
to disclose them only on a retrospective basis.
Details of the targets, performance against those targets, and any payments resulting, will The current salaries as at 1 April 2016 and those as at 1 April 2015 be disclosed, as far as possible, in next years Annual Report on are as follows: Remuneration, save where they remain commercially sensitive.
Base salary at Base salary at % 1 April 2016 1 April 2015 increase John Roberts 450,000 450,000 0% Steve Caunce 390,000 390,000 0% Mark Higgins 300,000 N A N A Pension and other benefits Executive Directors will continue to receive an employers pension contribution or a cash allowance in lieu of pension at the rate of 12.75% of base salary.
Executives will also receive benefits comprising a car allowance of 12,000 each, private family medical cover, gym membership and death in service life assurance and the Company will continue to pay for Mark Higgins private fuel.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 66 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Long-term incentives Payments to past Directors and loss of office payments With Mark Higgins now on the Executive Board, the Committee feels There were no payments to past Directors or loss of office payments it is now an appropriate time for all Executives to participate in the made in the year ended 31 March 2016.
PSP so that all Executive Directors are on the incentive plan and are pulling together.
Directors shareholdings Shares held Target It is intended that John Roberts and Steve Caunce will be granted 1 beneficially shareholding Target awards with a value equivalent to 150% of salary at the award date, at 31 March guidelines shareholding in line with the normal application of the Policy.
However, for Mark 2 2016 % of salary achieved Options Higgins, the Committee intends to make an enhanced award of 300% Richard Rose 723,443 N A N A N A of salary as part of his remuneration package, for the reasons set out in the Chairmans statement at the start of this report.
John Roberts 109,393,583 100% Yes 7,093 Steve Caunce 52,122,730 100% Yes 14,400 The performance conditions comprise a relative TSR metric together Mark Higgins 23,928 100% No 637,272 with Revenue and Group Adjusted EBITDA Targets.
Performance will be assessed in relation to the final year of the performance period Christopher i. e. for FY19.
The Committee believes these metrics provide the Hopkinson 22,201,590 N A N A N A appropriate balance vis a vis long-term growth of the Company Brian McBride 52,628 N A N A N A and shareholder return and that the targets themselves are suitably Marisa Cassoni 52,628 N A N A N A stretching and in line with Companys three-year plan.
The relative TSR measure is calculated against the general retailer constituents Rudolf Lamprecht 52,628 N A N A N A of the FTSE 250, with vesting commencing at median 25% of this part Charles Bill of the award and with full vesting at upper quartile levels.
The Group 3 Holroyd 19,815,810 N A N A N A Adjusted EBITDA GAE measure will require GAE of above 23m 1 Includes shares held by connected persons.
25% vesting of this part of the award and with full vesting at GAE 2 Includes SAYE options and options granted under the PSP.
above 35m for the year ending 31 March 2019, whilst the Revenue 3 Bill Holroyd was a director during the year but retired at the AGM on 21 July 2015.
Growth measure will require Revenue growth of over 50% 25% vesting of this part of the award with full vesting at above 120% In the period from 1 April 2016 to the date of this report, John Roberts growth over the three-year performance period.
gifted 150,000 shares in the Company to charity and Steve Caunce and Linda Caunce Steves spouse made gifts to charity of 320,000 All-employee share plans and 120,000 shares in the Company, respectively.
The Company proposes to roll-out a new SAYE Scheme each year and the Executive Directors will be entitled to participate on the same Percentage change in remuneration levels basis as other employees.
The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and Share ownership requirements previous financial year compared to that for the average employee.
The required share ownership level for the Executive Directors for For the benefits and bonus per employee, this is based on those 2016 17 will be 200% of salary.
There are no share ownership employees eligible to participate in such schemes.
requirements for the Non-Executive Directors.
Chief Average per Non-Executive Director fees Executive employee The fee structure and fee levels of the Non-Executive Directors were 1 Salary 0% 3% reviewed at the end of the financial year and due to increases in the 2 Benefits 0% 0% market in general, together with increased time commitment, the 3 basic fee for the Non-Executive Directors has been increased by Bonus 100% 100% 5,000 per annum.
1 Reflects the average change in pay for employees, calculated by reference to the aggregate remuneration for all employees in each year divided by the average As is disclosed elsewhere in the Annual Report, Richard Rose will number of employees.
2 There are no changes to benefit entitlements.
step down as Chairman at the AGM and Geoff Cooper will be appointed 3 Neither the Chief Executive nor employees eligible to participate in a bonus to the Board on 1 July 2016 to replace him, subject to re-election at that scheme received a bonus in the year ended 31 March 2015.
Geoffs proposed remuneration has been benchmarked and received 10% of his maximum bonus entitlement for the year ended 31 March agreed at a level of 165,000 per annum.
This will be a consolidated 2016 as did the other Executive Directors.
Other employees eligible to participate all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities, including chairing the in the Groups bonus scheme received 20% of their maximum bonus entitlement.
No other changes to Non-Executive Director fees have been made.
Accordingly, the fees payable per annum for 2016 17 are shown in the table below.
Non-Executive Director fees Chairman fee covering all Board duties 135,000 165,000 Non-Executive Director basic fee 50,000 Supplementary fees to Non-Executive Directors covering additional Board duties Audit Committee Chairman fee 10,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 10,000 Senior Independent Director fee 5,000 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance graph and pay table Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance against the The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs versus performance of the FTSE 250 Index from 25 February 2014 the date that in distributions to shareholders.
on which the Companys shares were first conditionally traded to 2014 15 2015 16 % change 31 March 2016.
This index was chosen as it represents a broad equity market index which includes companies of a broadly comparable size 1 Staff costs 000 46,480 59,901 28.9% and complexity.
Distributions to No distributions were made to shareholders 2 shareholders in the year 1 Includes base salaries, social security and pension.
Total Shareholder Return 2 Distributions to shareholders prior to the date of listing have been excluded.
Rebased 120 Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment 110 Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as 100 at 31 March 2016 for Directors are as follows: 90 Director and Notice Notice 80 date of service period by period by contract or letter Company Director Date joined 70 of appointment Unexpired term months months Group 60 Marisa Initial term of 50 Cassoni three years from 26 31 31 31 31 01 2014 date of letter Feb Mar Mar Mar subject to notice 3 3 05 02 2014 2014 2014 2015 2016 Steve Continuous Caunce employment This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2016, of 100 invested in AO World plc 14 02 2014 until terminated on 26 February 2014 being the date that shares were first admitted to trading by either party 12 12 13 10 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
Mark Higgins Continuous AO World FTSE 250 31 05 2014 employment until terminated Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters by either party 12 12 10 07 2011 Christopher Initial term of Hopkinson three years from The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief 14 02 2014 date of letter Executive during the financial years ending 31 March 2010 to 31 March subject to notice 3 3 12 12 2005 2016.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus payable Rudi Initial term of for performance in each of those years.
No long-term incentives were Lamprecht three years from eligible for vesting based on performance ending in any of those years.
17 02 2014 date of letter The annual bonus percentage shows the payout for each year as a subject to notice 3 3 17 01 2014 percentage of the maximum.
Brian Initial term of 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 McBride three years from 17 02 2014 date of letter Total subject to notice 3 3 06 02 2014 remuneration 000 680 292 243 227 537 537 588 John Roberts Continuous 14 02 2014 employment Annual bonus until terminated % 59% 18% 0% 0% 0% 0% 10% by either party 12 12 19 04 2000 PSP vesting Richard Initial term of % Rose three years from 14 02 2014 date of letter subject to notice 3 3 01 08 2008 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information External appointments Shareholder feedback No fees were received by Executive Directors for external During the IPO process, the views of potential shareholders were appointments during the year ended 31 March 2016. canvassed and taken into account when formulating the Directors remuneration policy, which was, as noted below, approved by the Remuneration Committee membership majority of shareholders at the AGM in July 2014.
As there are no The members of the Committee were for the year in question Brian proposed changes to the Policy, the Committee has not sought further McBride Chairman, Marisa Cassoni, Bill Holroyd until his retirement shareholder feedback over the year.
The Committee has, however, in July 2015 and Rudi Lamprecht since Bills retirement in July 2015. monitored developments in market trends and in the best practice All current members of the Committee are deemed to be independent expectations of investors as part of the ongoing review of how the and accordingly, the Committee now complies with the independence Policy is implemented.
As ever, the Committee welcomes any requirements set out in the Code.
enquiries or feedback shareholders may have on the Policy or the work of the Committee.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report on page 59.
The Executive At the 2015 AGM, the Annual Remuneration Report for the year Directors may be invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee in ended 31 March 2015 was put to shareholders by way of an advisory its deliberations as appropriate.
The Committee may also invite other vote and received approval from shareholders holding in aggregate members of the management team to assist as appropriate.
No person 348,021,488 shares over 99.77% of votes cast with only 0.23% of is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration or votes cast against: total votes withheld 165,788.
The Policy was put is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
to a binding shareholder vote at the Companys AGM in 2014 and received approval from the vast majority of shareholders holding in Advisers to the Committee aggregate 305,302,957 shares over 99.6% of votes cast with only New Bridge Street NBS provides advice in relation to remuneration 0.38% of votes cast against: total votes withheld 2,667,260. and share plans both for Executive Directors and the wider senior management population and was appointed by the Committee.
Audited information The Groups Auditor, Deloitte, has audited the single figure total NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code remuneration table in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
of Conduct and any advice provided by them is governed by that code.
NBSs terms of engagement are available on request from the This report has been approved on behalf of the Board by: Company Secretary.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited an Aon Plc company which, other than acting as independent consultant to the Committee, provided no further services to the Brian McBride Company during the year.
The Committee is committed to regularly Chairman, Remuneration Committee reviewing the external advisor relationship and is comfortable that AO World Plc NBSs advice remains objective and independent.
For the year under 8 June 2016 review NBSs total fees charged were 12,650 plus VAT.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69
