Directors Remuneration Report As set out in the Admission prospectus, the maximum annual Annual Statement from the Chair of the award under the Performance Share Plan PSP is 200% of Remuneration Committee salary rising to 250% in exceptional circumstances.
An initial Dear Shareholder, PSP award was granted following the IPO of 175% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO.
As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, our first Directors How the policy will be implemented for the 2017 financial year Remuneration Report as a listed company since Admission Current salaries for Executive Directors were set prior to the on 12 February 2016.
This report sets out Ascentials IPO.
No inflationary rises were awarded at the normal salary Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, what we paid review date of 1 April 2016.
The current Remuneration our Executive and Non-Executive Directors in the 10 month Committee has undertaken a review of their salaries taking period since the IPO, and why.
into consideration the Executive Directors performance, rapid progress of the business against all aspects of our agreed This report is split into three sections: strategy and proactive consultation with shareholders comprising a majority of our shares, we have decided to 1.
This Annual Statement, which summarises the key increase Duncan Painters salary to 525,000 and Mandy decisions made by the Committee during the year and Graddens to 354,000 effective 1 April 2017.
The Committee forms part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
believes that these increases will ensure that our Executive 2.
Directors Remuneration Policy this set outs the Directors are appropriately and fairly rewarded going forward.
Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors Remuneration The annual bonus plan will continue to be subject to a Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the maximum of 125% of base salary and measured against forthcoming AGM we will disclose their views and voting stretching financial targets.
50% of the bonus will be based on in next years Directors Remuneration Report and is Adjusted EBITA and 50% will be based on revenue.
Half of any consistent with that set out in the Admission Prospectus.
bonus earned will be deferred into shares, which vest after a 3.
Annual Report on Remuneration this sets out in detail three-year period.
how the Remuneration Policy has been applied in 2016, the remuneration received by Directors for the year and how PSP awards will be made to Executive Directors at 200% of the policy will be applied in 2017.
The Annual Report on salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO.
75% of the Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder award will be measured against growth in Adjusted EPS and 25% vote at the AGM.
against relative TSR versus the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
Shares normally vest after a three-year Performance and reward in 2016 performance period, subject to a further two-year holding period 2016 was an historic year for Ascential with our successful IPO whereby the Executive Directors will be restricted from selling occurring just after the start of the year.
In celebration of this, the shares which vest other than to settle any associated tax.
in March 2016, we were pleased to offer an award of free shares worth 1,000 each to around 1,600 eligible employees Key activities of the Committee at that time.
In addition we established an employee Sharesave The Committees key activities during the 2016 financial plan available to employees in all eligible countries.
year were: 2016 was also a year of strong business performance, as agreement of the Committees terms of reference: summarised on page 10.
For the Groups continuing operations, approving the 2015 bonus outcomes: reported revenue grew by 16.8%, or 9.5% on an organic, agreeing remuneration packages and arrangements for constant currency basis and Adjusted EBITDA was up 25.2%, senior employees: or 11.5% on an organic, constant currency basis.
formulation of the Companys first Remuneration Policy as a listed company: Annual bonuses of 25% of salary for the CEO and the CFO implementing and making awards under the Companys new were earned in the financial year based on meeting key share plans: strategic performance goals relating to portfolio restructuring determining the level of bonus payments in respect of this plans.
Financial performance was strong and fully met financial year: expectations established with shareholders.
Despite exceeding drafting the Companys first Directors Remuneration shareholder expectations and the stretching financial targets Report as a listed company: and for Continuing Operations set by the Committee, the 98% reviewing its performance assisted by an independent threshold gate Group financial target was not met.
shortfall was attributable to under performance by our recently discontinued Heritage Brands.
Notwithstanding In addition, since the end of 2016, we have consulted with the the strong financial performance achieved for continuing Companys major shareholders, the Investment Association operations, and rapid progress across organisation, Board, and ISS on the major elements of our policy and the way in shareholder and portfolio objectives, the bonus attributable which we propose to implement it in 2017.
The majority of to revenue and profit performance is not payable unless the those consulted were supportive of our proposals for 2017. threshold profit gate has been achieved and no bonus was therefore awarded in relation to the financial performance I hope that you find the information in this report helpful and conditions.
Total bonus awarded to the Executive Directors in I look forward to your support at the Companys AGM.
68 relation to the 2016 financial year is therefore 25% of salary.
Judy Vezmar Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 24 February 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The report has been prepared in accordance with the Consistent with these principles, the Committee has agreed provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and a Remuneration Policy which will: Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The report has also been provide a simple remuneration structure which is easily prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK understood by all stakeholders: Corporate Governance Code.
attract, retain and motivate executives and senior management in order to deliver the Companys strategic goals and business outputs: Directors Remuneration Policy promote the long-term success of the business: This part of the Remuneration Report sets out Ascentials provide an appropriate balance between fixed and Remuneration Policy for its Executive and Non-Executive performance-related, and immediate and deferred Directors.
The policy has been developed taking into account remuneration to support a high-performance culture: the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and adhere to the principles of good corporate governance guidelines from major investors.
The Directors Remuneration and best practice: Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM in align executives with the interests of shareholders and May 2017 and, subject to shareholder approval, will take other external stakeholders: and formal effect from that date.
consider the wider pay environment, both internally and externally.
What is the role of the Remuneration Committee?
The Remuneration Committee the Committee has How are wider employment conditions taken into account?
responsibility for determining the overall pay policy for The Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles Ascential.
In particular, the Committee is responsible for: which form the basis for decisions on Executive Directors pay are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest determining the framework or broad policy for the fair of the workforce are taken.
For example, the Committee takes remuneration of Ascentials Executive Directors and into account the general salary increase for the broader Chairman, and certain other senior executives: employee population when conducting the salary review approving their remuneration packages and service for the Executive Directors.
contracts, giving due regard to the comments and recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code All permanent employees are eligible for a performance-related as well as the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules and annual bonus and the Company operates UK and International associated guidance: Sharesave and US Stock Purchase saving plans for employees ensuring that the remuneration policy is adequate and wishing to invest in the Companys shares.
A formal employee appropriate to attract, motivate and retain personnel of consultation on remuneration is not operated: however, high calibre and provides, in a fair and responsible manner, employees are able to provide feedback on the Companys reward for their individual contributions: remuneration policies to their managers or the Human reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of Resources department informally as well as through the the Remuneration Policy: employee engagement survey and annual performance review overseeing any major changes in remuneration and process.
Fixed ratios between the total remuneration levels of employee benefits structures throughout Ascential: different roles in Ascential are not applied, as this may prevent approving the design of, and determining targets for, all us from recruiting and retaining the necessary talent in performance-related pay schemes operated by Ascential competitive employment markets.
and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: and The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy as set out reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval on pages 69 to 76 reflects differences compared to the by the Board and shareholders.
For any such plans, the broader employee base that are appropriate to leadership Committee determines each year whether awards will be at an even higher standard of success to ensure alignment made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the with shareholder interests.
A greater weight is placed on individual awards to Executive Directors and other senior performance-based pay through the quantum and management, and the performance targets to be used.
participation levels in incentive schemes.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Are the views of shareholders taken into account?
The Committee values and is committed to dialogue with shareholders.
This is the first time that shareholders will vote Policy overview on the Remuneration Policy and in preparing this policy we When setting the policy for Directors remuneration, the have sought feedback from our major shareholders, the Committee takes into account the overall business strategy Investment Association and ISS, and we will continue to and risk tolerance, considering the long-term interests of carefully consider any shareholder feedback received in the Company with a view to adequately attracting, retaining relation to the AGM this year and in future.
In addition, and rewarding skilled individuals and delivering rewards the Committee will continue to engage proactively with to shareholders.
shareholders and ensure that shareholders are consulted in advance, where any material changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy are proposed.
Through the process of review this year, the Committee Chair has consulted with 69 shareholders who in aggregate hold a majority of our shares.
Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued What are the elements of the Executive Directors pay?
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Base salary Provides a competitive Set at a level which provides a fair reward for the role Increases will normally and appropriate and which is competitive amongst relevant peers.
be in line with the level of basic fixed general increase for Normally reviewed annually with any changes pay appropriate to the broader employee taking effect from 1 April each year.
recruit, retain and population, taking reward Directors of into account factors Set taking into consideration individual and Company a suitable calibre to such as performance performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities of each deliver the Companys of the Company and role, the experience of each individual, his or her marketability strategic goals and external factors such and Ascentials key dependencies on the individual.
More Reference is also made to salary levels amongst relevant peers significant increases Reflects an individuals and other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
than standard may be experience, performance awarded from time to The Committee considers the impact of any basic and responsibilities time to recognise, for salary increase on the total remuneration package.
example, development in role and change in position or responsibility, as are also considered for the wider workforce for the same reasons.
Current salary levels are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Provides market Benefits provided may include private medical insurance, There is no overall competitive and life assurance and income protection insurance.
maximum level of appropriate benefits benefits provided to The benefits provided may be subject to minor package.
Executive Directors, amendment from time to time by the Committee within and the level of some this policy.
In addition, Executive Directors are eligible of these benefits is for other benefits which are introduced for the wider not pre-determined workforce on broadly similar terms.
The Company may but may vary from reimburse any reasonable business related expenses year to year based on including tax thereon incurred in connection with their the overall cost to the role if these are determined to be taxable benefits.
However, the Committee monitors annually the overall cost of the benefits provided to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Pension Provides a competitive Each Executive Director has the right to participate Pension contributions and appropriate in the pension scheme operated by the Company and or cash allowances pension package.
either via a contribution into the Companys defined are set at 9% of contribution plan, or via a cash supplement net of base salary.
All-employee share Encourages employee Ascential may from time to time operate taxThe schemes are plans share ownership and approved share plans such as HMRC-approved Save subject to the limits therefore increases As You Earn Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan set by HMRC from alignment with for which Executive Directors could be eligible.
70 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Annual bonus Incentivises the Paid annually, bonuses will be subject to achievement The maximum bonus execution of key annual of stretching financial performance measures.
The payable to Executive goals by driving and Committee also has discretion to introduce nonDirectors is 125% of rewarding performance financial and or strategic measures in future years.
It is base salary with 50% of against targets aligned intended, however, that financial measures will determine maximum payable for to delivery of strategy.
the majority of the annual bonus opportunity.
The Compulsory deferral of 50% of bonus earned will normally be deferred into awards minimum percentage a proportion of bonus over shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, of maximum that may into Ascential shares with awards normally vesting after a three-year period.
be paid for threshold provides alignment performance is 0%.
Recovery and withholding provisions are in operation across with shareholders.
the annual bonus and the DABP in certain circumstances, Dividends may accrue including where there has been a misstatement of accounts, on DABP awards over an error in assessing any applicable performance conditions, the vesting period or in the event of misconduct on the part of the participant.
and be paid out either as cash or as shares on vesting.
Performance Share Rewards the Annual awards of performance shares that normally vest after The normal maximum Plan PSP achievement of three years subject to performance conditions and continued opportunity is 200% sustained longservice.
Performance is normally tested over a period of at of base salary, in line term performance least three financial years but, in the case of the Initial PSP with the policy set at that is aligned with Awards, will be tested over the periods described below.
circumstances this Vesting of the Initial PSP Awards is subject to the Companys may be increased to Facilitates share cumulative EBITA 75% of the award measured over three 250% of salary.
ownership to provide years, starting with FY16, and TSR versus the FTSE 250 Index further alignment excluding investment trusts but including the Company Current award levels are with shareholders.
measured from the date of Admission over a period to 200% of base salary for 31 December 2018 25% of the award.
No portion of the the CEO and 175% of Initial PSP Award will vest if cumulative EBITA is less than a base salary for the CFO.
threshold set by the Remuneration Committee.
The maximum Dividends may accrue percentage that may vest for threshold performance is 25%.
on PSP awards over For the awards granted in FY17, awards will be the vesting period and subject to targets based on growth in Adjusted EPS be paid out either as and relative TSR measured against the constituents cash or as shares on of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
vesting in respect of the number of shares Different performance measures and or weightings that have vested.
may be applied for future awards as appropriate.
At least 50% of future awards will be subject to financial measures which will normally be a profit measure.
The Committee will consult in advance with major shareholders prior to any significant changes being made.
Following vesting, a further two-year holding period will apply to the awards whereby Executive Directors will be restricted from selling the net of tax shares which vest.
Recovery and withholding provisions operate in certain circumstances, including where there has been a misstatement of accounts, an error in assessing any applicable performance conditions, or in the event of misconduct on the part of the participant.
These provisions apply for at least three years from the date on which an award vests.
Shareholding guideline Encourages Executive Each Executive Director must build up and maintain a Not applicable.
Directors to build a shareholding in Ascential equivalent to 200% of base salary.
meaningful shareholding If an Executive Director does not meet the guideline, they in Ascential so as to will be expected to retain at least half of the net shares further align interests vesting under the Companys discretionary share-based 71 with shareholders.
employee incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued What discretions does the Committee retain in operating the incentive plans?
The Committee operates Ascentials various incentive plans according to their respective rules.
To ensure the efficient operation and administration of these plans, the Committee retains discretion in relation to a number of areas.
Consistent with market practice, these include but are not limited to the following: selecting the participants: the timing of grant and or payment: the size of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: determination of a good leaver and, where relevant, the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans: treatment in exceptional circumstances such as a change of control, in which the Committee would act in the best interests of Ascential and its shareholders: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : cash settling awards: and the annual review of performance measures, weightings and setting targets for the discretionary incentive plans from year to year.
Any performance conditions may be amended or substituted if one or more events occur which cause the Committee to reasonably consider that the performance conditions would not without alteration achieve its original purpose.
Any varied performance condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy in the circumstances.
How does the Committee choose performance measures and set targets?
The performance metrics used for the annual bonus plan and PSP have been selected to reflect Ascentials key performance indicators.
The annual bonus is based on performance against a stretching combination of financial and, in certain years, non-financial performance measures.
The financial measures are set taking account of Ascentials key operational objectives but will typically include a measure of profitability and or revenue as these are key performance indicators.
In 2017, the annual bonus will be measured solely on revenue 50% and profit 50% targets.
The performance conditions for the PSP are based on a profit measure and TSR performance.
Relative TSR has been selected as it reflects comparative performance against a broad index of companies.
It also aligns the rewards received by Executives with the returns received by shareholders.
For the Initial PSP Awards and the 2017 awards, this is the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts as the Company is a constituent of that index.
A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for both of these measures and further details of the targets applied are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of the performance targets and TSR peer group prior to each PSP grant.
Different performance measures and or weightings may be applied for future awards as appropriate.
However, the Committee will consult in advance with major shareholders prior to any significant changes being made.
In approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Remuneration Committee to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors that pre-date the approval of the policy.
Details of any payments to current or former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration if and when they arise.
How does the executive pay policy differ from that for other Ascential employees?
The Remuneration Committee considers the Executive Directors remuneration in the context of the wider employee population.
All of the Companys employees participate in annual bonus arrangements and have the opportunity to participate in share-based rewards such as SAYE and SIP.
The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, to make a greater part of their pay conditional on the successful delivery of business strategy.
This aims to create a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors.
72 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How much could an Executive Director earn under the Remuneration Policy?
A significant proportion of total remuneration is linked to Company performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
The chart below illustrates how the Executive Directors potential reward opportunity varies under three different performance scenarios: fixed pay only, on-target and at maximum.
Illustrations are intended to provide further information to shareholders regarding the pay for performance relationship.
Actual pay delivered will be influenced by changes in share price and the vesting levels of awards.
The Executive Directors can participate in the two all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the below chart.
000 2,500 2,283 2,000 46% 1,561 1,452 1,500 42% 43% 998 1,000 29% 39% 21% 576 30% 390 22% 500 100% 37% 25% 100% 39% 27% 0 Min Target Max Min Target Max Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Assumptions: Minimum: fixed pay only base salary as at 1 April 2017, plus pension of 9% of salary and the estimated value of benefits.
On-target: fixed pay base salary as at 1 April 2017, plus pension of 9% of salary and the estimated value of benefits, plus 50% of the maximum annual bonus of 125% of base salary, plus vesting of PSP award at 62.5% of award granted at 200% for the CEO and 175% for the CFO median vesting between threshold and full vesting.
Maximum: fixed pay base salary as at 1 April 2017, plus pension of 9% of salary and the estimated value of benefits, plus maximum annual bonus of 125% of base salary, plus full vesting of PSP award granted at 200% of base salary for CEO and 175% of base salary for the CFO.
What would a new Executive Director be paid?
The ongoing remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of Ascentials shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment and the maximum limits set out therein.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy that no ongoing special arrangements will be made, and in the event that any deviation from standard policy is required to recruit a new hire on an ongoing basis, approval would be sought at the Annual General Meeting.
Base salary levels will be set in accordance with Ascentials Remuneration Policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Salaries may be set at a below market level initially with a view to increasing them to the market rate subject to individual performance and developing into the role by making phased above inflation increases.
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to the other Executive Directors, taking account of local market practice.
What would the ongoing incentive arrangements be for a newly-appointed Executive Director?
Currently, for an Executive Director, annual bonus payments will not exceed 125% of base salary and PSP payments will not normally exceed 200% of base salary not including any arrangements to replace forfeited entitlements.
Where necessary, specific annual bonus and PSP targets and different vesting and or holding periods may be used for an individual for the first year of appointment if it is appropriate to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities and the point in the year in which they joined the Board.
A PSP award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a close period.
73 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued What payments could a newly appointed Executive Director If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated in receive beyond the policy?
other circumstances, compensation may include base salary The Committee retains flexibility to offer additional cash and due for any unexpired notice period, pro-rata bonus normally or share based awards on appointment to take account of based on performance assessed after the year end in respect remuneration or benefit arrangements forfeited by an of the proportion of the financial year worked and any amount Executive on leaving a previous employer.
If shares are used, assessed by the Committee as representing the value of other such awards may be made under the terms of the PSP or as contractual benefits which would have been received during permitted under the Listing Rules.
The Company may choose to continue providing some benefits instead of paying a cash sum, representing their Such payments would take into account the nature of awards cost.
Any annual bonus paid to a departing Executive Director forfeited and would reflect as far as possible performance would normally be paid in cash, at the normal payment date, conditions, the values foregone and the time over which they and reduced pro-rata to reflect the actual period worked.
would have vested or been paid.
Awards may be made in cash if the Company is in a prohibited period at the time an Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise Executive joins the Company.
claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice The Committee may also agree that the Company will meet and provision of outplacement services would be paid certain relocation, legal, tax equalisation and any other as necessary.
incidental expenses as appropriate so as to enable the recruitment of the best people including those who need Executive Directors service contracts are available for to relocate.
inspection at Ascentials registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
What about an internal appointment?
In the case of an internal Executive Director appointment, any How are outstanding share awards treated when an Executive variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may Director leaves Ascential?
be allowed to pay out according to its terms, and adjusted as Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any under Ascentials share plans will be treated in accordance with other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to the relevant plan rules.
Usually, any outstanding awards lapse appointment may continue.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, injury, disability, retirement with Are the Executive Directors allowed to hold external the consent of the Committee, the sale of the entity that appointments?
employs him her out of Ascential or any other circumstances Executive Directors are permitted to accept external at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status may appointments with the prior approval of the Board and where be applied.
there is no impact on their role with Ascential.
The Board will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the Executive For good leavers under the PSP, outstanding awards will Directors will be permitted to retain any fees arising from such normally vest at the original vesting date to the extent that the appointments and, where any such fees are retained, they will performance condition has been satisfied, and would normally be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the date on What are the Executive Directors terms of employment?
which the participant ceases to be employed by the Company.
What are their notice periods?
The Committee retains the discretion to vest awards and The Executive Directors have entered into service agreements measure performance accordingly on cessation and or to with an indefinite term that may be terminated by either party disapply time pro-rating: however, it is envisaged that this on 12 months written notice.
Contracts for new appointments would only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
For good will be terminable by either party on a maximum of 12 months leavers under the DABP, unvested awards will vest at the written notice.
original vesting date unless the Committee exercises its discretion and allows the award to vest in full on, or shortly What payments will an Executive Director receive when they following, the date of cessation.
An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated In determining whether a departing Executive Director should summarily without notice and without any further payment be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date account the performance of the individual and the reasons of termination, if they are deemed to be guilty of gross for their departure.
misconduct or for any other material breach of the obligations under their employment contract.
The Company may suspend the Executive Directors or put them on a period of garden leave during which they will be entitled to salary, benefits and pension only.
74 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What happens to their outstanding share awards if there is a takeover or other corporate event?
Outstanding awards on a takeover or winding up of the Company will vest early to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied, and would normally be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by the Company, although the Committee would retain discretion to waive time pro-rating of an award if it regards it as appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
In the event of a demerger, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the current or future value of shares, the Committee may decide that awards will vest on a basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company, unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on a basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
How are the Non-Executive Directors paid?
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Non-Executive To attract and retain a The Company Chairman is paid an annual fee.
The NonThe fees are subject Director fees high-calibre Chairman Executives including the Senior Independent Director to maximum aggregate and Non-Executive are paid a basic fee with the Chairmen of the main Board limits as set out Directors by offering Committees and the Senior Independent Director paid in the Companys market competitive additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities and Articles of Association fee levels.
If there is a temporary yet material 2,000,000. increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a pro-rata The Committee is basis to recognise the additional workload.
guided by the general increase for the The level of fees is reviewed periodically by the broader employee Committee and Chief Executive for the Company population, but on Chairman and by the Company Chairman and Executive occasions may need Directors for the Non-Executive Directors and set to recognise, for taking into consideration market levels in comparably example, changes in sized FTSE companies, the time commitment and responsibility, and or responsibilities of the role and to reflect the experience time commitments and expertise required.
Current fee levels The Company Chairman and the Non-Executive are disclosed in the Directors are not eligible to participate in incentive Annual Report on arrangements or to receive benefits save that they Remuneration.
are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable business expenses and tax thereon.
They may also receive limited travel or accommodation related benefits in connection with their role as a Director.
What would a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director be paid?
For a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
What are the terms of appointment for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors?
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years save for the Chairman who is appointed for a nine-year term subject to annual re-election by the Company at a general meeting.
The appointment of each Chairman and Non-Executive Director may be terminated by either party with three months notice.
The appointment of each may also be terminated at any time if he or she is removed as a Director by resolution at a general meeting or pursuant to the Articles, provided that in such circumstances the Company will except where the removal is by reason of his misconduct pay the Chairman or Non-Executive an amount in lieu of his or her fees for the unexpired portion of his or her notice period.
Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of Ascential during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
75 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Dates of Directors service contracts letters of appointment Unexpired term Date of service contract of contract at appointment 31 December 2016 Executive Directors Duncan Painter 21 January 2016 Rolling contract Mandy Gradden 21 January 2016 Rolling contract Non-Executive Directors Scott Forbes 11 January 2016 Rita Clifton 12 May 2016 Paul Harrison 21 January 2016 Judy Vezmar 21 January 2016 Gillian Kent 21 January 2016 76 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out a summary of how the Directors Remuneration Policy was applied since IPO to 31 December 2016 and will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Details of the remuneration earned by Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the outcomes of the incentive schemes, together with the link to Ascentials performance, are provided in this section.
Various disclosures about the Directors remuneration set out below have been audited by Ascentials independent auditors, KPMG LLP.
Where information has been audited, this has been clearly indicated.
What did the Directors earn in relation to the 2016 financial year?
Audited The following tables report the total remuneration receivable in respect of qualifying services by each Director from the date of Admission 12 February 2016 to 31 December 2016: Salary Taxable Annual 000 and fees benefits1 bonus2 PSP3 SIP Pension Total Executive Duncan Painter 2016 408 4 115 1 37 565 Mandy Gradden 2016 279 3 78 1 22 383 Non-Executive Scott Forbes 2016 150 150 Rita Clifton4 2016 35 35 Paul Harrison 2016 53 53 Judy Vezmar 2016 53 53 Gillian Kent 2016 44 44 Tom Hall5 2016 David Pemsel5 2016 Total 1,021 7 193 2 59 1,283 1 Benefits include private medical insurance, life assurance and income protection insurance.
2 Bonus was calculated as a percentage of annual salary as at the date of IPO in February 2016.
Any bonus amounts to be deferred under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan are shown in the bonus figure for the year in which they were awarded.
3 The first awards under the PSP were made in the year and the values on vesting will be reported in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration.
4 Rita Clifton joined the Board on 12 May 2016.
5 Tom Hall and David Pemsel resigned from the Board effective 5 September 2016 and did not receive any fees for the period from IPO to their resignation.
Mandy Gradden is also a Non-Executive Director of SDL plc and received fees totalling 52,500 in 2016 from that external appointment.
Duncan Painter did not receive any remuneration in respect of his external appointments in 2016.
How was the annual bonus payment determined?
Audited The bonus elements, targets for the year and performance against these targets, and the resulting payouts, are set out in detail below.
For 2016, performance metrics included both corporate financial and strategic metrics as set out below: Proportion Element of award Financial metrics Revenue, excluding the UKTI contract in Exhibitions & Festivals 40% Adjusted EBITA, excluding UKTI contract 40% Strategic objectives 20% 100% 77 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Financial metrics Payout is dependent on meeting at least the threshold level of profit performance set out in the table below.
No bonus is payable for the revenue element if the threshold level of Adjusted EBITA is not met.
Revenue, including EBITA, including discontinued discontinued operations operations 40% of award, maximum 40% of award, maximum of 50% of salary of 50% of salary Payout under Payout under Required that element Required that element actual result as a % of actual result as a % of Level of achievement m maximum m maximum Threshold requirement 348.6 25% 90.9 25% Target requirement 355.7 50% 92.8 50% Stretch requirement 391.2 100% 102.1 100% Actual achieved 351.9 36%1 89.3 nil 1 Payout has been reduced to nil since the threshold target for the profit element of the plan has not been met.
Financial metrics for the annual bonus plan are measured at constant currency and the targets have been increased from budget rates of Euro 1.43 and USD 1.56 to reflect the actual exchange rates that were in force during 2016.
Strategic objectives 20% of award, maximum of 25% of salary1 The bonus objectives set for the year included the requirement that payout for achievement of strategic objectives was dependent on meeting at least 95% of target profit performance.
Actual profit of 89.3m exceeded the profit threshold of 95% of target.
The strategic objective set for the Executive Directors for 2016 was to complete all of the necessary preparations to allow for a strategic transaction in 2017 for the Heritage Brands.
These preparations were completed successfully during the year, evidenced by the announcement on 5 January 2017 that 13 Heritage Brands had been separated into a discrete operating entity whilst new owners were being sought.
The sale of Health Services Journal, one of the identified Heritage Brands, was executed on 19 January 2017.
The Executive Directors were awarded a bonus of 25% of salary out of the maximum of 25% available for this element.
The Committee therefore determined that in respect of the year to 31 December 2016, the resulting annual bonus awards were as follows: Maximum opportunity Actual % Total Paid Deferred % of salary1 of salary awarded in cash in shares Duncan Painter 125% 25% 115,000 57,500 57,500 Mandy Gradden 125% 25% 78,456 39,228 39,228 1 Bonus payable has been calculated as a percentage of the annual salary earned by each Director in 2016.
The annual bonus for the year is subject to deferral and 50% of the above awards will be deferred into shares for a period of three years.
What equity awards were granted since IPO?
Audited The Executive Directors were granted with awards under the SIP, the SAYE and the PSP during the year: Type of Number of Face Face value as Threshold award shares value a % of salary1 vesting End of performance period Duncan Painter PSP 402,500 805,000 175% 25% 31 Dec 2018 SAYE 8,823 22,499 n a n a SIP 500 1,000 n a n a Mandy Gradden PSP 236,250 472,500 150% 25% 31 Dec 2018 SAYE 8,823 22,499 n a n a SIP 500 1,000 n a n a 1 Face value as a percentage of salary has been calculated on the directors annual salary at the date of IPO in February 2016.
78 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PSP awards take the form of nil cost options.
The face value for the initial PSP awards was based on the IPO price of 200p and was set at 175% of salary for Duncan Painter and 150% of salary for Mandy Gradden.
The share price at the date of grant was 232p.
75% of the Initial PSP Awards will be subject to the Companys cumulative Adjusted EBITA over a measurement period comprising three consecutive financial years of the Company, starting FY16.
No portion of such part of the award will vest if cumulative Adjusted EBITA is less than a threshold level of 262.4m and maximum vesting will occur at 296.3m with straight line vesting in between these points.
25% of the award will be based on relative total shareholder return RTSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the measurement period running from Admission to 31 December 2018.
Vesting of 25% of such part of the award will occur for median ranking and the award will vest in full for upper quartile or above ranking, with straight line vesting in between these points based on ranking.
No awards will vest if RTSR ranks below the median.
Free shares under the SIP were granted at a share price of 200p, being the IPO Offer Price.
The share price at the date of grant was 236.25p.
Both Executive Directors participated in the Ascential Sharesave scheme saving a monthly amount of 500, as a result of which, on 30 September 2016, they were each granted options over ordinary shares in Ascential plc under the Companys Employee Savings Related Share Option Plan.
Options are ordinarily exercisable for a period of six months following the end of a three year savings contract and subject to the payment of an exercise price per share under option of 204p, a 20% discount on the share price at the date of offer.
What are the Directors outstanding incentive scheme interests?
Audited The tables below summarise the outstanding awards made to the Executive Directors: Duncan Painter Interests at Interests Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 December Exercise Scheme at IPO in year in year in year 2016 Date of grant price p Vesting date Expiry date PSP 402,500 402,500 21 March 2016 nil 21 Mar 2019 21 Mar 2026 SAYE 8,823 8,823 30 Sept 2016 204p 1 Nov 2019 30 April 2020 SIP 500 500 10 Mar 2016 nil 10 Mar 2019 n a Total 411,823 411,823 Mandy Gradden Interests at Interests Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 December Exercise Scheme at IPO in year in year in year 2016 Date of grant price p Vesting date Expiry date PSP 236,250 236,250 21 Mar 2016 nil 21 Mar 2019 21 Mar 2026 SAYE 8,823 8,823 30 Sept 2016 204p 1 Nov 2019 30 Apr 2020 SIP 500 500 10 Mar 2016 nil 10 Mar 2019 n a Total 245,573 245,573 The closing share price of Ascentials ordinary shares at 31 December 2016 was 269.90p and the closing price range from Admission to the year end was 200.00p to 297.90p.
Ordinary Shares required to fulfil entitlements under the PSP, DABP, SAYE and SIP may be provided by Ascentials Employee Benefit Trusts EBT.
As beneficiaries under the EBT, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the Ordinary Shares held by the EBT which, at 31 December 2016, amounted to 538,890.
Assuming that all awards made under the Ascentials share plans vest in full, Ascential has utilised 0.95% of the 10% in 10 years and 0.56% of the 5% in 5 years dilution limits.
What pension payments were made in 2016?
Audited The table below provides details of the Executive Directors pension benefits: Cash in lieu of Total contributions to contributions to DC-type pension plan DC-type pension plan 000 000 Duncan Painter 17 20 79 Mandy Gradden 22 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Each Executive Director has the right to participate in Ascentials defined contribution pension plan or to elect to be paid some or all of their contribution in cash.
Pension contributions and or cash allowances are capped at 9% of salary.
Were any payments made to past Directors during 2016?
Audited There were no payments made to any past Directors during the year.
Were any payments for loss of office made during 2016?
Audited There were no loss of office payments made during the year.
What are the Directors shareholdings and is there a guideline?
Audited Details of the Directors interests in shares including those of their connected persons are shown in the table below.
Beneficially Beneficially owned owned shares at shares at Shareholding Outstanding awards 31 December 24 February guideline Director 2016 2017 achieved?
To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, each Executive Director must build up and maintain a shareholding in Ascential equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Until the guideline is met, Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of any PSP and DABP share awards that vest or are exercised, net of tax.
How does Ascentials share performance compare to the FTSE 250 Index?
This graph shows a comparison of Ascentials total shareholder return share price growth plus dividends paid with that of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts since Admission.
Ascential has selected this index as it comprises companies of a comparable size and complexity and provides a good indication of Ascentials relative performance.
Total Shareholder return 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 8 Feb 2016 31 Dec 2016 Ascential plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Ascential plc on 08 February 2016, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts on a daily basis.
80 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Value rebased STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How does the CEOs pay compare to past performance?
The Chief Executive and other senior management were As the Company listed during 2016, there is no disclosure of invited to attend meetings as the Committee considered remuneration relating to prior years.
Accordingly, this Report appropriate, but did not take part in discussions directly does not set out the percentage pay compared to past regarding their own remuneration.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Ascentials A summary of the remuneration of the CEO for 2016 is shown website or are available in hard copy on request from the below.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus Company Secretary.
which was awarded based on performance during 2016, notwithstanding that 50% of bonus is deferred into shares How will the Directors Remuneration Policy be used in the for three years.
Base salary Total remuneration 000 565 Salaries at IPO were 460,000 for Duncan Painter and Annual bonus % of maximum 20% 315,000 for Mandy Gradden and no inflationary rises were LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil awarded at the normal salary review date of 1 April 2016.
The current Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of How does the change in the CEOs pay compare to that for their salaries taking into consideration the Executive Directors Ascential employees?
performance, rapid progress of the business against all aspects As the Company listed during 2016, there is no disclosure of of our agreed strategy, and following proactive consultation remuneration relating to prior years.
Accordingly, this report with shareholders comprising a majority of our shares, we have does not set out the percentage change in remuneration decided to increase Duncan Painters salary to 525,000 an between 2015 and 2016. increase of 14% and Mandy Graddens to 354,000 an increase of 12% effective 1 April 2017.
The Committee How much does Ascential spend on pay?
believes that these increases will ensure that our Executive Ascentials actual spend on pay for all employees in 2015 was Directors are appropriately and fairly rewarded going forward.
This represented 34.7% of the Groups operating expenses.
How will the annual bonus operate in 2017?
The annual bonus plan will continue to be subject to a As the Company listed during 2016, there is no disclosure maximum of 125% of base salary and measured against relating to the percentage change in dividend distributions stretching financial targets.
50% of the bonus will be based on between 2015 and 2016.
This will be included in the 2017 Adjusted EBITA and 50% will be based on revenue and half of Report on Remuneration.
any bonus earned will be deferred into shares which vest after a three-year period.
Who are the members of the Remuneration Committee?
The Committee is made up exclusively of independent The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Judy performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include Vezmar and its other members are Paul Harrison and Gillian items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee may An explanation of bonus payouts and performance achieved invite the Chairman of the Board to attend Committee will be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
meetings and has invited the Chairman of the Board to all meetings throughout 2016.
What advice did the Committee receive?
New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, part of Aon plc, is retained as the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
NBS has been appointed by the Committee to provide advice and information.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires that its advice be objective and impartial.
Aon also provides insurance broking services to the Company.
The total fees paid to NBS for providing advice and information related to remuneration and employee share plans to the Committee during the year were 140,870, which included detailed advice on the implementation of the global SAYE plan.
81 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued How will the PSP operate in 2017?
The Committee intends to grant PSP awards to the Executive Directors in 2017 at 200% of salary for Duncan Painter and 175% of salary for Mandy Gradden.
75% of the award will be measured against growth in Adjusted EPS and 25% against relative TSR versus the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
Each element will be assessed independently of the other.
The Committee considered a number of factors when setting the range of targets for 2017 awards, including internal planning, market expectations for the future performance of the Company and market practice.
The conditions that will be applied to the PSP awards to be granted in March 2017 are: Weighting each measured Threshold Stretch Metric independently 25% vesting 100% vesting Measurement period Adjusted EPS compound growth rate CAGR 75% 8% 12% CAGR measured over the three financial years 2017, 2018 and 2019, using 2016 as the base year Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% Median Upper quartile ranking ranking Vesting between threshold and maximum will be measured on a straight line basis.
Shares normally vest after a three-year performance period, subject to a further two-year holding period whereby the Executive Directors will be restricted from selling the net of tax shares which vest.
What are the current and future Non-Executive Director fees?
2017 2016 % Change Board Chairman 170,000 170,000 0% Basic fee 50,000 50,000 0% Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 0% Additional fee for Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0% Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Judy Vezmar Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2017 82 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
