Remuneration report REMUNERATION COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Remuneration report As described in detail in other sections of the Details of any elections made to commute cash forthe year ending 30 June 2016. annual report, Ashmores consistent and well bonus and related awards of matching shares will defined investment philosophy has resulted in be provided in the Remuneration report for the year Ashmores remuneration principles have remained strong investment performance with 69% of AuM in which the awards are made.
As has been the unchanged since the Company listed, and are outperforming over one year, 63% over three years case in previous years, base salaries for Executive designed to align all employees with the long-term and 73% over five years, respectively.
Continuing Directors have remained unchanged at a level which success of the business.
negative sentiment towards Emerging Markets is significantly below fixed pay levels for equivalent has resulted in a decline in AuM of $6.3bn over positions at peer organisations, consistent with the As regulations in relation to remuneration continue the period through net outflows of US$7.5bn and Companys management of its fixed cost base and to develop, we see the remuneration structures positive performance of US$1.2bn.
However, both strong belief in pay for performance.
and policies of other similar firms converging with subscriptions and redemptions improved during the the policies and practices Ashmore has had in Ashmore hasa 30 June year end, and as a result course of the year, as sentiment started to recover place since listing, with significant levels of deferral, 2014, was the first year in which the Company towards the year end, after a prolonged period of a clear link between performance and levels of was required to comply with the new regulations weakness.
Disciplined control of operating costs remuneration and strong alignment of Executive governing disclosure of Directors remuneration, resulted in a high adjusted EBITDA margin of 62%, Directors and employees with shareholders which the Company elected to adopt early in 2013. and active management of the Groups seed capital and clients through significant employee In 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy DRP investments contributed to profit before tax of shareownership.
was subject to a binding vote for the first time and 167.5 million, a decline of 8%.
was approved by shareholders on 30 October 2014.
Ashmores successful team-based approach to The Remuneration Committee believe that through a The Annual Report on Remuneration ARR was investment management is well supported by its prolonged period of difficult conditions for Emerging subject to an advisory vote in both 2014 and 2015.
Executive Directors, members Markets, the management team have performed Shareholders will next be asked to vote to approve of the investment team, and indeed all other very wellin most areas of the business, with those the Policy at the2017AGM.
employees, participate in a single capped incentive factors which are under their control being well pool and are paid under a similar structure, with The Remuneration Committee would welcome your managed: strong fund performance, tight control of an annual cash bonus and share award, meaning support for the 2016 Directors Remuneration report.
operating costs, and positive development of the all employees are long-term shareholders in the Groups activities.
The reduction in AuM as a result business.
Ashmores Remuneration Policy has always of negative sentiment towards Emerging Markets Simon Fraser been closely aligned to the long-term interests of was the one notable area where the Groups Chairman both clients and shareholders.
The Policy includes: performance was below the desired level.
A capped basic salary to contain the fixed This performance is reflected in the variable costbase: compensation received by employees, including the A cap on the total variable compensation including Executive Directors, for the year under review, with any awards made under the Companys share variable compensation as a percentage of earnings plan, available for all employees at 25% of profits, before variable compensation, interest and tax VC Activities which to datehas not been fully utilised: and EBVCIT being set at 20% FY 2014 15: 18.5%.
The members of the Remuneration Committee A deferral for five years of a substantial portion have the appropriate balance of skills, Annual bonuses for Executive Directors were of variable compensation into Company shares experience, independence and knowledge decreased relative to the prior year, an adjustment or equivalent, which, in the case of Executive the committee felt reflected the overall performance of the Company to enable them to discharge Directors in lieu of a separate LTIP, is also partly of the business.
However, they were maintained at a their respective duties and responsibilities subject to additional performance conditions level which recognises the significant achievements measured over five years.
effectively, and met five times during the year.
The Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual For share awards made during the year ending Report on Remuneration on pages 55 to 67 The Chief Executives total annual bonus comprising 30June 2016, relating to the prior performance cash and share awards at grant value, prior to any describe the various matters which have period, the Company introduced additional waivers or voluntary elections he may choose to been the principal areas of focus for the performance conditions for awards made to make, decreased from 3,000,000 FY 2014 15 to Remuneration Committee in FY2015 16.
Executive Directors, in order to further align 1,500,000.
Should the Chief Executive voluntarily the remuneration of Executive Directors with elect to commute his cash bonus, and as a result During the year under review the Remuneration the interests of clients, shareholders and the receive a matching share award, his maximum Committee comprised the following NonCompanys KPIs.
In addition to the existing annual bonus will be 1,950,000.
The total sum executive Directors and was fully compliant relative TSR performance condition, the Company ultimately to be received by the Chief Executive introduced performance conditions relating to with the Code: will be dependent on achievement relative to the investment outperformance, growth in assets under performance conditions, which means that upto Simon Fraser Chairman management and profitability, all measured over 525,000 of this sum may not be paid out when fiveyears.
David Bennett the share awards vest in 2021.
At the 2015 AGM, the Company renewed its Michael Benson The Group Finance Directors total annual bonus existing share plan, which was supported by 87% Peter Gibbs comprising cash and share awards at grant value, of shareholders, thus allowing Ashmore to continue prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he may Nick Land with its existing practices.
The renewed share plan choose to make, decreased from 1,000,000 FY is substantially unchanged, whilst incorporating Dame Anne Pringle 2014 15 to 750,000.
Should the Group Finance necessary updates due to remuneration regulation Director voluntarily elect to commute his cash since 2006.
Michael Benson and Nick Land stepped down bonus, and as a result receive a matching share from the Remuneration Committee at the AGM For remuneration relating to the year ending 30 June award, his maximum annual bonus will be 975,000. on 22 October 2015 and Peter Gibbs and David 2016, the Remuneration Committee has ensured The total sum ultimately to be received by the Group Bennett were appointed to the committee on that pay is delivered to Executive Directors and other Finance Director will be dependent on achievement the same date.
All other members of the employees categorised by the FCA as identified relative to the performance conditions, which staff, consistent with the requirements of the Remuneration Committee served throughout means that 262,500 of this sum may not be paid Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
outwhentheshare awards vest in 2021. the year.
54 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Directors remuneration policy The terms of reference for the Remuneration Details of votes cast to approve the Directors This section of the Remuneration Committee include: Remuneration Policy and last years Annual report has been prepared in Report on Remuneration are provided in the accordance with Part 4 of The Large reviewing the ongoing appropriateness Annual Report on Remuneration section of and Medium-sized Companies and and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: this report.
Groups Accounts and Reports reviewing the design of all share Amendment Regulations 2013.
During the period the Chairman of the incentiveplans for approval by the Remuneration Committee and other Company Itsets out the Remuneration Policy Boardand shareholders: representatives engaged with shareholders for the Company.
The Policy has ensuring that members of the and proxy voting agencies in order to provide been developed taking into account executivemanagement of the Company information and solicit comments and the principles of the UK Corporate are providedwith appropriate incentives feedback on the Companys remuneration Governance Code 2014 and toencourage enhanced performance practices and outcomes, and have considered andthatremuneration incentives are shareholders executive remuneration these discussions as part of their decision compatible with the Companys risk guidelines.
The Policy was approved by making process.
policies and systems: a binding shareholder vote in 2014.
Considerations elsewhere making recommendations to the Board Policy overview intheCompany asto the Companys framework or The Remuneration Committee determines and The Company applies a consistent remuneration broad policy for the remuneration of the agrees with the Board, the Companys policy philosophy for employees at all levels.
Chairman, the Executive Directors and the on the remuneration of the Board Chairman, Company Secretary and to determine their The cap on base salary means that Executive Executive Directors and other members of total individual remuneration packages Directors base salaries are set at a similar level executive management including employees including bonuses, incentive payments to other senior investment and professional designated as Code or Identified Staff under the and share options or other share awards: employees in the Company, and the base FCAs Remuneration Codes.
The Remuneration ensuring that a significant proportion salary range from lowest to highest in the Committees terms of reference are available of Executive Directors remuneration Company is considerably narrower than the on the Companys website.
is structured so as to link rewards to market norm.
Allemployees are eligible for corporate and individual performance aperformance-related annual bonus, and In determining the Remuneration Policy, the and that performance conditions are the principle of bonus deferral into Company Remuneration Committee takes into account stretching and designed to promote the shares or equivalent applies to annual the following: long-term success of the Company: and bonuses for all employees who have at least the need to encourage and promote the one full years service.
Rates of pension ensuring that contractual terms on long-term success of the Company: contribution and fringe benefit provisions termination, and any payments made, the need to attract, retain and motivate areconsistent between executives and other are fair to the individual and the Company, talented Executive Directors and employees within each country where the that failure is not rewarded and that the senior management: Company operates.
duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
consistency with the remuneration principles The Company does not operate formal The number of Remuneration Committee applied to Ashmore employees as a whole: employee consultation on remuneration.
meetings and their attendance by the external comparisons to examine However, employees are able to provide direct Directors are set out in the table on page 48. current market trends and practices and feedback on the Companys Remuneration equivalent roles in similar companies Policy to their line managers or the Human taking into account their size, business Resources department.
complexity, international scope and relative The Remuneration Committee monitors the performance: and effectiveness of the Companys Remuneration the requirements of the Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining, engaging and Codes of the UK financial services regulator.
motivating employees, and receives reports from the Chief Executive Officer on how the How the views of shareholders Companys remuneration policies are viewed aretaken into account by employees and whether they are meeting The Remuneration Committee regularly business needs.
compares the Companys Remuneration The Remuneration Committee does not Policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes seek to apply fixed ratios between the total account of the results of shareholder votes remuneration levels of different roles in the on remuneration.
Company, as this would prevent it from If material changes to the Remuneration recruiting and retaining the necessary talent Policy are contemplated, the Remuneration in a highly competitive employment market.
Committee Chairman consults with major However, the base salary multiple between shareholders about these in advance.
highest and lowest paid UK-based employees in the Company is less than 4.5x.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Directors remuneration policy continued Policy table The table below summarises the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, which is effective from 30October2014.
Figure 1 Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors BASE SALARY Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero Base salaries are capped.
bonus payment should that be appropriate.
The cap on base salary MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY helps to contain fixed costs.
The cap is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the cap to be changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
FRINGE BENEFITS Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provide cost-effective benefits, to support the wellbeing The Company currently provides benefits such as medical of employees.
In the event of relocation of an executive, the Company could consider appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within the Policy.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
PENSION Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which employees Company contributions are made, normally on a defined can supplement with their contributions.
contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an equivalent cash allowance.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY The current level of Company contribution is 9% of base salary, with a further matching contribution of up to 1% of base salary should the Executive Director make a personal contribution of an equivalent amount.
The contribution level is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if necessary to reflect trends in market practice.
56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance VARIABLE COMPENSATION Discretionary 3.
Matching Shares awarded on the voluntarily commuted PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT cash bonus from 1. above ANDLONGTERMSTRATEGY Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, Rewards performance and aligns executives closely with subject to the same performance condition on half of the matching othershareholders.
award as that described in 2. above.
The maximum match used to OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES date on any award made under the current policy was one-for-one: ANDPERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK the policy permits the matching level to be changed for future Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary awards but not to exceed three-for-one.
Dividends or dividend variable pay award depending on personal and Company equivalents on deferred Bonus Share or Phantom equivalent performance, by applying a range of performance indicators awards and on the portion of Restricted Share and Matching suchas growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and Share awards that are not subject to a performance condition strategic and operational achievements.
The variable pay award vesting after five years will be paid out in line with the Companys comprises acash bonus part of which may be voluntarily dividend payment schedule.
Dividends or dividend equivalents deferred and a long-term incentive in the form of both a on the portion of Restricted and Matching Share or Phantom RestrictedShare award and a Matching Share award on equivalent awards which are subject to a performance condition anyvoluntarily deferred cash bonus.
will be accrued and paid out at the time the award vests and to the extentof vesting.
For any awards made to a Director prior to their 1.
Cash bonus 60% of total award appointment as a Director, the dividend or dividend equivalent The executive may voluntarily commute up to half of the cash payments are made on share awards in full, under previous bonus in return for the same value in a Bonus Shares award or commitments made to participants.
Phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred shares In addition to the performance condition described above, are eligible for Matching Shares or Phantom equivalent vesting malusand clawback can be applied to the long-term incentive after five years subject to conditions see 3. opposite.
components during the five-year deferral period, if performance Longterm incentives under the Company Executive has been materially misstated or there is gross misconduct.
Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred 2.
Restricted Shares award 40% of total award remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, This is compulsorily deferred into Company shares or Phantom althoughnone have been granted in recent years, and to vary equivalent for a period of five years and does not qualify for thepercentage split of award between cash and share awards matching.
Half of this deferred portion is subject to additional tomeet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
The policy permits the MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Committee to set suitable performance conditions for each The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees, award.
The performance condition for the most recent award including executives, is capped, currently at 25% of earnings was a combination of: before variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The policy 25% relative total shareholder return TSR permits the Remuneration Committee to vary this cap if necessary Measured against an asset management peer group to meet business needs.
The policy is to cap the aggregate sum available for variable 25% investment outperformance compensation rather than to cap individual variable compensation Relative to the relevant benchmarks overthree andfive years.
awards, as the capping of individuals is not market practice for most of the Companys peer group.
25% growth in assets under management A compound increase in AuM over thefive year The high proportion of variable compensation deferral, with performanceperiod.
vestingafter five years and subject in part to ongoing performance conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk management, 25% profitability insupport of the Companys risk and compliance controls.
Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance relative to a comparator index over thefive year performanceperiod.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Directors remuneration policy continued therefore shareholders.
In considering Any outstanding share-based entitlements Differences in Remuneration Policy anysuch payments, the Committee would granted to an Executive Director under the for Executive Directors compared take account of the nature, vesting dates Companys share plans will be determined toother employees and any performance requirements attached based on the relevant plan rules.
The default The Remuneration Policy for the Executive to the relinquished remuneration.
For an treatment is that any outstanding awards Directors is generally consistent with that internal appointment, any variable pay lapse on cessation of employment.
However, foremployees across the Company as a element awarded in respect of the prior in certain prescribed circumstances, such whole.
However, there are some differences role may beallowed to be paid out according asdeath, disability, retirement or other which the Remuneration Committee believes to its terms, adjusted if necessary to take circumstances at the discretion of the are necessary to reflect the different into account theappointment.
Remuneration Committee taking into responsibilities of employees across the account the individuals performance Company.
Below Executive Director level, For external and internal appointments, and thereasons for their departure, whilst the same five-year deferral policy theCompany may meet certain relocation good leaver status can be applied.
applies, share awards are not subject expenses as appropriate.
An Executive Directors service contract may Service contracts and loss be terminated without notice and without External Nonexecutive of officepayment policy any further payment or compensation, Directorpositions Service contracts normally continue until exceptfor sums accrued up to the date Executive Directors are permitted to the Executive Directors agreed retirement oftermination, on the occurrence of certain serveasNon-executive Directors of other date or such other date as the parties agree.
events such as gross misconduct.
companies where there is no competition The service contracts contain provisions with the Companys business activities Incentive plan discretions forearly termination.
andwhere these duties do not interfere The Remuneration Committee will operate withtheindividuals ability to perform Notice periods are limited to 12 months the current share plans in accordance with hisduties forthe Company.
Service agreements contain their respective rules and the policy set out holdstwo external appointments with no contractual entitlement to receive variable above, and in accordance with the Listing companies unconnected to the asset pay: participation in these arrangements is Rules and relevant legislation or regulation.
Saveas aforesaid atthe Remuneration Committees discretion.
As is consistent with market practice, the Executive Directors do notpresently hold The Executive Directors service contracts Remuneration Committee retains discretion any externalappointments with any non are available for inspection at the Companys over a number of areas relating to operating Ashmore-related companies unconnected registered office during normal business hours.
These include with the asset management industry.
but are not limited to the following: If the employment of an Executive Director Who participates in the plans: is terminated without giving the period of notice required under the contract, the Where an outside appointment is The timing of the grant of an award Executive Director would be entitled to accepted in furtherance of the Companys and orpayment: claim recompense for up to one years business, any fees received are remitted remuneration subject to consideration The size of an award and or a to the Company.
of the obligation to mitigate the loss.
Such payment within the plan limits If the appointment is not connected recompense is expected to be limited to approved by shareholders: tothe Companys business, the base salary due for any unexpired notice The choice of and adjustment of ExecutiveDirector is entitled to retain period, any amount assessed by the performance measures and targets in anyfeesreceived.
Remuneration Committee as representing accordance with the policy set out above the value of other contractual benefits and and the rules of each plan including the pension which would have been received treatment of delisted companies for the Approach to remuneration for new during the period.
In the event of a change purpose of the TSR comparator group : Executive Director appointments of control of the Company there is no The remuneration package for an externally enhancement to these terms.
Discretion relating to the measurement recruited new Executive Director would be ofperformance in the event of a change In summary, the contractual provisions set in accordance with the terms and ofcontrol or reconstruction: areasfollows: maximum levels of the Companys approved Determination of a good leaver in addition Provision Detailed terms Remuneration Policy in force at the time to any specified categories for incentive Notice period 12 months ofappointment.
plan purposes, based on the rules of each Termination payment Base salary plus value In addition, the Remuneration Committee plan and the appropriate treatment under in the event of of benefits including may offer additional cash and or share-based termination by the pension paid the plan rules: and Company without monthly and subject elements to take account of any remuneration Adjustments required in certain due notice to mitigation relinquished when leaving the former circumstances e. g. rights issues, Change of control Same terms as above employer when it considers these to be corporate restructuring, special on termination in the best interests of the Company and dividends and on a change of control.
58 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Any use of the above discretions would, As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap engagement is subject to the requirements where relevant, be explained in the Annual individual awards, but rather the aggregate of the Companys Articles relating to the Report on Remuneration.
As such it is not possible to demonstrate retirement of Directors by rotation.
The it might also be the subject of consultation maximum remuneration levels.
In lieu of this, letters of appointment are available for with the Companys major shareholders.
the minimum fixed remuneration is inspection at the Companys registered illustrated inFigure 2, which provides an officeduring normal business hours.
Legacy arrangements indication of the potential range of total For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy Compliance with the remuneration using the highest and lowest includes authority for the Company to honour RemunerationCode variable pay awards in a rolling five-year any commitments entered into with current The Remuneration Committee regularly period and assuming full vesting, five years or former Directors that have been disclosed reviews its Remuneration Policys compliance later at thegrant price, of the long-term to shareholders in previous Remuneration with the principles of the Remuneration incentive components based on upper reports.
Details of any payments to former Codes of the UK financial services regulator, quartile TSR orequivalent achievement Directors will be set out in the Annual Report as applicable to Ashmore.
relative to other performance conditions.
on Remuneration as they arise.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to be Non-executive Directors are engaged Reward scenarios consistent with the prudent management underletters of appointment and do not have The Companys Policy results in the ofrisk, and the sustained, long-term contracts of service.
They are appointed for majorityof the remuneration received by performance of the Company.
an initial three-year period, subject to annual theExecutive Directors being dependent shareholder re-election.
Figure 2 Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 CEO Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period GFD Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 Base salary Pension Share bonus face value using share price at grant Benets Cash bonus LTI: Restricted Shares and Matching awards face value using share price at grant Figure 3 Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Nonexecutive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Board Chairman fee To pay an all-inclusive The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for The overall fees payable to Non-executive basic fee that takes all his responsibilities.
The level of the fee is Directors will remain within the limit account of the role reviewed periodically by the Committee, with stated in the Articles of Association, and responsibilities reference to market levels in comparably sized currently 750,000 FTSE companies, and a recommendation is The current level of fees is disclosed then made to the Board without the Chairman in the Annual Report on Remuneration being present Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive The Non-executives are paid a single inclusive The overall fees payable to Non-executive Director fees basic fee that takes basic fee.
There are no supplements for Directors will remain within the limit account of the role Committee Chairmanships or memberships, stated in the Articles of Association, and responsibilities the fee levels are reviewed periodically by currently 750,000 the Chairman and Executive Directors The current level of fees is disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups AccountsandReports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
Figure 4 Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2016 audited information The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2016.
Benefits for both Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme.
Benefits for Mark Coombs include the Companys contribution towards transportation costs in relation to his role, this has been included for the first time  relating to prior periods has been updated to reflect the cost of this benefit.
Benefits for David Bennett relate to transportation costs and the associated income tax and national insurance costs in relation to his role, these have been included for the first time this year and informationrelating topriorperiods has been updated to reflect the cost of this benefit.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments ofdividends or dividend equivalents on such awards prior to their vesting date.
In previous years this value for Tom Shippey included the dividends paid on restricted and matching shares.
However, as these awards are not subject to performance conditions, under the report regulation requirements this value should not be included.
The table has therefore been adjusted to reflect this.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2016, Mark Coombs waived any eligibility for, and any right or expectation to receive, a cash bonus of up to 190,991, which hasbeen excluded from the figure in the table.
The waived amount is to be used by the Company for the general benefit of employees.
Had he not waived this amount, then Mark Coombs cash bonus would have been 900,000.
As described in detail in other sections of performance of US$1.2bn.
However, both Total bonus award for the theAnnual Report, in many respects the subscriptions and redemptions improved year ending 30 June 2016 management team and business, led by the during the course of the year, as sentiment Chief Executive Officer CEO CEO and GFD, have performed well this year.
started to recover towards the year end, after andGroupFinance Director GFD Investment performance has been strong, a prolonged period of weakness.
performancemeasures with 69% of AuM outperforming overone The decision regarding the CEOs bonus The Remuneration Committee ensures that year, 63% over three years and 73% over award for the year under reviewwas there is a clear relationship between the five years.
In reaction to the continued based on annual performance against Groups performance and the remuneration period of difficult conditions for emerging financial objectives 75% and achievement of the CEO and GFD, and as such annual markets the CEO and GFD have ensured of non-financial, business development bonuses for the CEO and GFD were that operating costs have been tightly andmanagement objectives 25%.
decreased relative to the prior year.
controlled and that the Groups seed capital The bonus award for the GFD was based investments have been actively managed The CEO and CFDs performance during the onhis performance against operational resulting in a smaller decline in profit before period, relative to their annual performance objectives related to the departments he tax of 8% than might have otherwise been measures, would justify higher awards manages 35%, management of subsidiary expected.
The development of theGroups than have been made, but as the overall business activities outside the UK, including strategy has also been positive with sum available is reduced as a function of joint ventures 25%, corporate development continued diversification of the business the reduced profitability of the business and contribution to business strategy 30% inthe Alternatives investment theme and the and the cap on total variable remuneration, and investor relations and communication growth of local asset management activity the Committee has determined that lower with stakeholders 10%.
The performance in Colombia, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia.
criteria and performance outcomes for both Continuing negative sentiment towards For additional information, Figure 6 shows the CEO and the GFD, as assessed by the emerging markets has resulted in a decline the history of financial results for the last Committee, are shown in the table opposite.
in AuM of $6.3bn over the period through fiveyears.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Restricted Share or Restricted Phantom Share awards.
Theymay commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Bonus Share or Phantom Bonus Share awards and an equivalent value in Matching Share or Phantom Matching Share awards.
All Share or Phantom Share awards will be reported in the Directors Share and Phantom Share award tables inthe year of grant.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey both chose to commute 50% of their cash bonuses pre waiver in 2015 for an equivalent amount of Bonus Shareawards.
From the year ending 30 June 2015 onward, additional performance conditions are applied to 50% of any Restricted or Matching Share award.
The amounts shown in the column labelled Mandatorily Deferred Share Bonus represent the 50% of Restricted and Matching Share awards that do not have additional performance conditions attached.
These amounts represent the cash value of shares awarded at grant, which will vest after five years subject to continued employment.
In respect of prior year Deferred Share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly tothenominated charities.
The figures shown exclude the amounts waived.
Dividends or dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily and mandatorily deferred Share or Phantom Share awards in the period.
Michael Benson retired from the Board on 22 October 2015.
Mark Coombs receives cash in lieu of a pension contribution, Tom Shippeys pension contribution includes an employee contribution via salary sacrifice, in 2015 this was 1,750 and in 2016 this was 5,375.
Figure 5 1 CEO and GFD performance measures Executive Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Committee assessment Business financial To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT, to achieve Investment performance has been strong through the period in CEO 75% performance higher than budgeted growth in AuM and to effectively most areas, adding US$1.2bn in AuM manage investment performance to deliver consistent Operating costs have been well managed growth relative to each unblended investment theme EBIT below budget, despite high margins AuM has been below budget Non-financial Strategy development and implementation, Group strategy developing as planned CEO 25% management recruitment, staff turnover and succession planning Personnel matters have been effectively managed, withstrong, performance and regulatory and compliance adherence stable investment and management teams in place Strong risk management and compliance culture embedded and maintained in all aspects of the business Management Department performance assessed for Finance, Departmentshave remained stable with low turnover, and strong, GFD 35% ofdepartments Corporate Development, Investor Relations, Company developing teams Secretarial and Facilities Management of Local asset management business growth and Local asset management businesses developing as planned, GFD 25% subsidiary business development of profitability and scale, integration of with AuM increasing as the businesses mature and develop activities outside the offices and effectiveness of joint venture relationships track records UK, including joint Areas of underperformance in Local asset management, actively ventures and effectively managed Corporate development Contribution to the development and implementation Instrumental inmanagement of operating costs GFD 30% and contribution to of strategic goals and increasing value for shareholders Continued support to development of business strategy business strategy Investor relations and Broadening the shareholder base and communicating An area of strength, with both internal and external relationships GFD 10% communication effectively with external parties, the Board and all other and communication managed effectively relevant stakeholders Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 6 Five-year summary of financial results 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 AuM US$bn at period end 52.6 58.9 75.0 77.4 63.7 Operating profit m 137.9 181.0 171.3 232.0 225.1 Figure 7 Longterm incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2016 audited information Share price on date of award Face value Face value Performance period Name Type of award No.
of shares Date of awards % of salary end date Mark Coombs Restricted Shares 494,271 22 09 15 2.4278 1,199,991 1200% 21 09 20 Mark Coombs Matching Shares 370,703 22 09 15 2.4278 899,993 900% 21 09 20 Tom Shippey Restricted Shares 164,757 22 09 15 2.4278 399,997 400% 21 09 20 Tom Shippey Matching Shares 123,568 22 09 15 2.4278 299,998 300% 21 09 20 Longterm incentive scheme interests awarded during the year ended 30 June 2016 Figure 7 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during the year.
These represent the Restricted and Matching Share awards, 50% of which are subject to additional performance conditions, and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
The remaining 50% are subject to continued employment.
The performance conditions for the most recent awards were a combination of: 25% relative total shareholder return TSR Measured against an asset management peer group over five years.
25% investment outperformance Relative to the relevant benchmarks overthree andfive years.
25% growth in assets under management A compound increase in AuM over thefive year performance period.
25% profitability Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance relative to a comparator index over the five year performance period.
The performance conditions vesting scale and TSR peer group are shown in Figures 8 and 9 respectively.
Performance and vesting outcome for the Chief Executives 2010 LTIP which vested during theyearended30June 2016 During the period shares awarded to Mark Coombs in 2010 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all Bonus shares vested, and the TSR performance condition was applied to the vesting Restricted and Matching shares.
The Companys TSR was 4.9% which ranked Ashmore at 18.42 relative to the TSR peer group of 19 companies: the median rank which would have resulted in 25% vesting was 10.
Therefore no Restricted or Matching share awards vested.
Performance and vesting outcome for the Group Financial Directors 2010 LTIP which vested during the yearended 30 June 2016 During the period, shares awarded to Tom Shippey in 2010 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all Bonus, Restricted and Matching shares vested.
These awards were not subject to the TSR performancecondition as they were awarded prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
62 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Figure 8 Performance conditions vesting scale Performance condition Performance % of award vesting Below median of peer group Zero Median 25% TSR Between median and upper quartile Straight-line proportionate vesting Upper quartile 100% Below 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks Zero over 3 and 5 years 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks 25% over 3 and 5 years Investment outperformance Between 50% and 75% of assets outperforming Straight-line proportionate vesting the benchmarks over 3 and 5 years 75% or above of assets outperforming the benchmarks 100% over 3 and 5 years Below 5% compound increase in AuM over Zero the 5 year performance period 5% compound increase in AuM over the 5 year 25% performance period Growth in Assets under Management Between 5% and 10% compound increase Straight-line proportionate vesting in AuM over the 5 year performance period 10% or above compound increase in AuM 100% over the 5 year performance period Below the benchmark return Zero At the benchmark return 25% Between the benchmark return and 10% Profitability Straight-line proportionate vesting outperformance At or above 10% outperformance relative 100% to the benchmark return Figure 9 TSR peer group Company Country of listing Company Country of listing Aberdeen Asset Management UK Henderson Group UK Affiliated Managers USA Invesco USA Alliance Bernstein USA Janus Capital USA Blackrock USA Jupiter Fund Management UK CI Financial Income Fund Canada Man Group UK Eaton Vance USA Schroders UK Federated Investors USA SEI Investments USA Franklin Templeton USA T Rowe Price USA GAM Holding Switzerland Waddell and Reed USA Note: For awards made in 2015 and onward Partners Group, AGF and Azimut were removed from the peer group and GAM Holding, Jupiter and Man Group were added.
TSR is a well-established and recognised performance measure, which aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
A comparator group of 18 companies has been selected from the global investment management sector.
The Committee reviews the peer group periodically to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Annual report on remuneration continued Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2010, 30 June 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013, Mark Coombs chose to waive 30%, 20%, 10% and 10% respectively of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Number of shares at 30 June 2015, Granted during year and Number of shares at 30 June 2016 figures are shown excluding the amounts waived.
On the vesting release date any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Market Number of Type of price on shares at Number of Omnibus date of 30 June Granted Vested Lapsed shares at 30 Performance Executive award Date of award award 2015 during year during year during year June 2016 period Vesting release date Tom Shippey NDRS 21 September 2010 3.1724 78,805 78,805 5 years 21 September 2015 NDBS 21 September 2010 3.1724 59,104 59,104 5 years 21 September 2015 NDMS 21 September 2010 3.1724 59,104 59,104 5 years 21 September 2015 NDRS 20 September 2011 3.9392 215,780 215,780 5 years 19 September 2016 NDRS 18 September 2012 3.2926 78,965 78,965 5 years 17 September 2017 NDBS 18 September 2012 3.2926 59,224 59,224 5 years 17 September 2017 NDMS 18 September 2012 3.2926 59,224 59,224 5 years 17 September 2017 NDRS 17 September 2013 3.8340 70,423 70,423 5 years 16 September 2018 NDBS 17 September 2013 3.8340 52,817 52,817 5 years 16 September 2018 NDMS 17 September 2013 3.8340 52,817 52,817 5 years 16 September 2018 RS 30 September 2014 3.0900 58,253 58,253 5 years 29 September 2019 BS 30 September 2014 3.0900 43,690 43,690 5 years 29 September 2019 MS 30 September 2014 3.0900 43,690 43,690 5 years 29 September 2019 RS 22 September 2015 2.4278 164,757 164,757 5 years 21 September 2020 BS 22 September 2015 2.4278 123,568 123,568 5 years 21 September 2020 MS 22 September 2015 2.4278 123,568 123,568 5 years 21 September 2020 Total 931,896 411,893 197,013 0 1,146,776 KEY RS Restricted Shares RBS Restricted Bonus Shares NDBS Bonus Shares awarded whilst nota Director BS Bonus Shares RMS Restricted Matching Shares NDMS Matching Shares awarded whilst MS Matching Shares NDRS Restricted Shares awarded whilst not a Director not a Director 64 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in themarket by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
As detailed in the Business review, the EBT continues to make market purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any 10 year period following the date of the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share capital.
As at 30 June 2016, the Company had 5.8% of the Companys issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff.
All of the awards made to date have been satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, thus none of the Companys obligations under its employee share plans have been met by newly issued shares.
Defined benefit pension entitlements None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined benefit pension plans.
Directors shareholding and share interests Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Although there is no formal shareholding requirement, the Executive Directors have substantial interests in Company shares.
Figure 11 Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2016 audited information Outstanding Restricted and Outstanding voluntarily deferred 1 3 Beneficially owned Matching Share awards Bonus Shareawards Total interest in shares Executive Directors Mark Coombs 283,882,891 3,315,715 1,421,021 288,619,627 2 Tom Shippey 120,000 867,477 279,299 1,266,776 Nonexecutive Directors Clive Adamson 0 0 David Bennett 10,000 10,000 The Hon.
Outstanding Restricted Shares and Matching Shares awarded in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 are subject to performance conditions.
Half of the Restricted Shares and Matching Shares awarded in 2015 are subject to performance conditions.
Restricted and Matching Share awards made to Tom Shippey prior to his appointment as a Director are not subject to performance conditions.
Save as described above there have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 5 September 2016.
The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for loans with the express permission of the Board.
Tom Shippey and his connected persons have granted security over 120,000 Ashmore Group plc shares as part of a pre-existing credit facility.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Figure 12 Comparison of percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus 2015 to 2016 % change Chief Executive base salary 0% Relevant Comparator employees base salary 4% Chief Executive taxable benefits 0% Relevant Comparator employees taxable benefits 1% Chief Executive annual bonus -50% Relevant Comparator employees annual bonus -13% Figure 12 compares the percentage change from 2015 to 2016 in remuneration elements for the Chief Executive with the average year-on-yearchange across relevant comparator employees as a whole.
Relevant employees are full-time employees of Ashmore Group whohave been employed throughout the full performance year.
Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity or for the general benefit of employees.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Annual report on remuneration continued Performance chart Figure 13 shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends reinvested against the performance of the relevant indices for the last seven years.
Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June i. e. 1 June to 30 June inclusive.
As the chart indicates, 100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2009 was worth 196.70 six years later, compared with 182.80 for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index, and 267.20 for the same investment in the FTSE 250 index.
Figure 13 Total return performance chart to 30 June 2016 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 30 June 09 30 June 10 30 June 11 30 June 12 30 June 13 30 June 14 30 June 15 30 June 16 Ashmore Group FTSE 250 FTSE 100 Source: Thomson Reuters Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
Figures do not include amounts of cash, voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares or dividend equivalents waived to charity or for the general benefit of employees.
Voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares which are waived to charity will result in a cash payment to the charity, on the vesting date, of a sum equivalent to the market value of the number of waived Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares vesting on that date.
During the restricted period the charity will receive any dividends or dividend equivalents associated with any waived Bonus or Phantom Bonus Shares awarded prior to 2013.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2016, Mark Coombs waived any eligibility for, and any right or expectation to receive a cash bonus of up to 190,911, which has been excluded from the figure in the table.
Had he not waived this amount, thenMark Coombs cash bonus would have been 900,000.
Mark Coombs variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Restricted Share or Phantom Restricted Share awards.
He may commute up to50% of his cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Bonus Share or Phantom Bonus Share awards which then attract an equivalent value in Matching Share orPhantom Matching Share awards.
All awards will be reported in the Directors Share and Phantom Share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs received dividend equivalents related to his Share or Phantom Share awards granted for years prior to 2013.
No performance-related Restricted and Matching or Phantom Share equivalent awards have vested during the periods shown.
The sums shown relate to dividends ordividend equivalents paid on Share or Phantom Share awards.
Mark Coombs receives a cash allowance of equivalent value in lieu of pension contributions.
Benefits for Mark Coombs includes the Companys contribution towards transportation costs in relation to his role, this has been included for the first time this year and information relating to prior periods has been updated to reflect the cost of this benefit.
66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Value of 100 invested on 30 June 2009 Governance Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs External advisers and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
The Remuneration Committee received independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS consultants throughout the period from Figure 15 1July 2015 to 30 June 2016.
NBS abides by the Remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective 2015 to 2016 and impartial advice.
NBS fees for the year ending 30 June 2016 Metric 2016 2015 % change were 24,547.
The Company participates in the McLagan Partners Remuneration paid to or compensation survey from which relevant data is provided to the receivable by all employees of Remuneration Committee.
Neither of the above provide other the Group i. e. accounting cost 58.1 65.7 11% services to the Company.
Average headcount 277 293 5% Distributions to shareholders Statement of shareholder voting dividends and or share buybacks 116.1 114.0 2% At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received thefollowing votes from shareholders: Statement on implementation of Remuneration Figure 16 Policyin the year commencing 1 July 2016 Shareholder voting Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee intends to continue to apply broadly 2015 AGM resolution to the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration in approve the Directors the year ending 30 June 2017.
Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2015 % of votes cast For long-term incentive awards half of any Restricted Shares, Votes cast in favour 483,099,146 89.70% Matching Shares and their Phantom equivalents, the Remuneration Votes cast against 55,485,785 10.30% Committee intends to continue to apply the four performance Total votes cast 538,584,931 100.00% conditions as in the prior period, these being relative TSR, subject to Abstentions 4,239,168 N A any changes to the peer group that may be necessary to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant, investment performance, assets under management and profitability.
Approval This Directors Remuneration report including both the Directors Membership of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration have The members of the Remuneration Committee are listed in the table been approved by the Board of Directors.
All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as defined under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
ofthe Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.
Simon Fraser Remuneration Committee attendance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Percentage of meetings attended out of potential 5 September 2016 maximum Nick Land 100% Simon Fraser 100% The Hon.
Michael Benson 100% Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 100% Peter Gibbs 100% David Bennett 100% The Hon.
Michael Benson attended all Committee meetings prior to his retirement as a Director on 22 October 2015.
Nick Land stepped down from the Committee effective from 22 October 2015.
The Companys CEO attends the meeting by invitation and assists theRemuneration Committee in its decision making, except when his personal remuneration is discussed.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Other executives may beinvited to attend as the Remuneration Committee requests.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67
