Governance 59 and is satisfied that, on the basis of andjudgement and that there are no All new directors are encouraged to thefacts outlined above, the former relationships or circumstances which accelerate their knowledge of the group KPMG relationship would not in any way are likely to affect, or could appear by visiting a variety of its businesses compromise Richards independence toaffect, his judgement.
Key elements of the and that it was in the best interests isoffering himself for re-election induction programme undertaken by ofthe group to appoint him as an attheannual general meeting and Richard to date following his appointment independent non-executive director of the theboard will continue to keep are set out below: Company.
Further details of the process hisindependence under review.
Board and governance by which Richard was appointed are During the year, Lord Jay and Peter Smith given in the Nomination committee retired from the board as non-executive Legal and regulatory duties of a UK report on page 64. listedcompany director.
directors, on 30 November 2015 and The Code requires that, if a director 13April 2016, respectively.
As at the Group governance framework including hasserved on the board for more than date of this report, the board comprises matters reserved to the board for itsdecision and committee terms nine years, the board should state its the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance ofreference.
reasons why it considers the director, Director and six non-executive directors.
notwithstanding his or her length Inside information policy and procedures, Biographical and related information ofservice, to be independent.
restrictions and procedures for dealing about the directors is set out on pages inthe Companys shares.
Accordingly, the board has considered 54 and 55. theindependence of Tim Clarke and Procedure for dealing with board Javier Ferrn as follows: Appointments to the board conflicts, guidance and procedures on related party transactions and transactions There is a formal and transparent as at 3 November 2016, Tim with controlling shareholders.
procedure for the appointment of new Clarkehad served 12 years as a directors to the board.
Details are The groups approach to corporate director ofthe Company.
The board available in the Nomination committee responsibility.
hascontinued to keep Tims report set out on page 63 which also independence under close review Management meetings and site visits provides details of the committees given his length of service.
Individual meetings with members of the given careful consideration to the senior management team at the group matter, the board is satisfied that Tim Commitment centre including an Audit committee continues to demonstrate the The letters of appointment for the briefing with Group Financial Controller.
qualities of independence in carrying Chairman and the non-executive directors Meetings with the chief executives of out his role as a non-executive director set out the expected time commitment ABMauri, ABF Ingredients and George and Senior Independent Director, required of them and are available for Weston Foods.
supporting the team in an objective inspection by any person during normal Visits to a number of group businesses and independent manner.
The business hours at the Companys for meetings with local management boardconsiders that he continues registered office and at the annual general including AB Sugar and AB Agri in tobe independent in character and meeting.
Other significant commitments Peterborough, a bakery site tour at judgement and that there are no of the Chairman and non-executive AlliedBakeries in Stevenage and a relationships or circumstances which directors are disclosed on appointment tourofthe Twinings Andover factory.
are likely to affect, or could appear to and require approval thereafter.
Tour of a number of Primark stores with affect, his judgement.
Tim retains his the Primark CEO and senior management.
Board development role as Senior Independent Director Attended Lancaster and Leicester The Chairman, with the support of the and is offering himself for re-election storeopenings.
Company Secretary, is responsible for at the annual general meeting.
Attending a session of the ABF the induction of new directors and the Theboard will continue to keep WomensBusiness Education Forum.
Board induction as at 1 November 2016, Javier Ferrn Following his appointment in January Richard Reid joined the board as had served ten years as a director 2015, Wolfhart Hausers induction anon-executive director on 14 April ofthe Company.
Javiers service programme continued during the year 2016and undertook a formal, tailored andconsequent knowledge and under review with further site visits and programme of induction, facilitated by the experience of the group, together with management meetings including to AB Chairman and the Company Secretary.
the invaluable retail experience he World Foods in Leigh for an introduction brings to the role, are highly regarded Richards induction took account of to its operations and supply chain: by the board.
Notwithstanding his hisprior knowledge of the group, his attending a Primark sourcing, technical length of service and, having given experience and business perspectives and compliance meeting in Dublin: due deliberation to the matter, the and the committees on which he serves.
afactory tour and site presentation at board is satisfied that Javier The aim of the programme was to allow ABMauri in Hull: a visit to Vivergo Fuels continues to demonstrate the Richard to refresh and develop his in Hull to receive an overview of the qualities of independence and knowledge of how the group operates business and plant tour: a visit to Twinings objectivity in carrying out his role through its five strategic business in Andover to discuss a broad agenda asanon-executive director.
The segments and to familiarise him with including tea procurement and supply board considers that he continues itsgovernance policies and procedures chain-related issues and a site visit tobe independent in character and his duties as a director.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE toABEnzymes at Roal Oy in Rajamki, Progress on objectives A discussion guide was circulated to Finland, involving an introduction to each from the 2015 evaluation each interviewee which formed the of ABF Ingredients and AB Enzymes from During the year, the Chairman agenda for the meetings and included senior management, factory tours and an oversawthe implementation of the following topics: overview of research and development.
 arising from Key issues addressed during the 2015 evaluation, which included Training and development theyear such as the change theactions set out in the table below.
The Chairman has overall responsibility ofauditor: the revising of the for ensuring that the directors receive remuneration policy: and refreshing 2015 objectives suitable training to enable them to carry the membership of the board: out their duties and is supported in this Role of the board Governance and risk management The quality of strategic conversations in by the Company Secretary.
Directors are including information flow to the regular board meetings was reinforced and also encouraged personally to identify board: the effectiveness of group enhanced with a greater focus on strategic any additional training requirements corporate governance processes: issues at a group level.
There was an thatwould assist them in carrying out andthe boards approach to increased focus on reputational risk.
Training is provided in briefing riskmanagement: papers, such as the regular update Engagement with divisional fromthe Company Secretary as part of Board organisation, structure levelexecutive the board pack ahead of each meeting anddynamics including the The regular programme of presentations to covering developments in legal, approach to determining the future the board by divisional heads was enhanced regulatory and governance matters, and through prior disclosure of information to board composition: the effectiveness the board and more time being set aside by way of presentations and meetings of the induction process: maintenance atthe meetings to discuss the issues and with senior executives or other external and development of skills of board the strategic choices arising from the sources.
During the year, the Market members: familiarity with the business: respective presentations.
Abuse Regulation which took effect in and creating the environment for July 2016 was a particular point of focus effective debate: Succession and resource and the board was fully briefed on the Progress on board transition during the Effectiveness and efficiency updated inside information and share year was acknowledged to have been inparticular, the quality and extent dealing policies and procedures arising successful and the ongoing work on ofthe input and challenge received from the new regulation and its talentdevelopment was valuable and by the executive directors, and wellmanaged.
There was an appetite implementing measures.
whether the skills and experience forfurther consideration of succession Information flow ofthe individual board members planning see 2016 objectives opposite.
The Company Secretary manages the areused effectively: provision of information to the board Board support Business performance including atappropriate times in consultation Trialling of electronic board papers was clarification on the role of the board considered during the year but it was withthe Chairman and Chief Executive.
with respect to business concluded that this should be postponed Inaddition to formal meetings, the performance: the adequacy of the pending an anticipated enhancement to Chairman and Chief Executive maintain information provided to the board: the security of the preferred software.
regular contact with all directors.
and the quality of the discussion TheChairman holds informal meetings anddecision-making process: with non-executive directors, without 2016 evaluation any ofthe executives being present, People the role of the board in Following the  todiscuss issues affecting the group, addressing people, talent, diversity performance evaluation carried out in whenappropriate.
Regular management and succession planning issues: and 2015, this years review was conducted updates are sent to directors to keep internally and was led, at the invitation Broader themes including whatthe thenon-executive directors informed ofthe Chairman, by Ruth Cairnie, board can learn from the experience ofevents throughout the group between oneofthe independent non-executive of members on other boards.
board meetings and to ensure that they directors.
The review took place in are kept fully advised of the latest Following the conclusion of the interviews, thefinal quarter of the financial year.
Ruth produced a written report which A framework was prepared outlining was discussed with the Chairman and Board performance evaluation thepriority areas and points of the Chief Executive before being sent to An evaluation to assess the performance particularfocus for discussion.
This was board members for discussion at the of the board as a whole, its committees circulated to each director, theCompany following board meeting.
and the individual directors is conducted Secretary, the group HRDirector, the annually with the aim of improving A list of recommended actions arising Chief Executive of Primark and the audit theeffectiveness of the board and its from this years evaluation is being engagement partner of the Companys members and the performance of implemented under the direction of auditor, Ernst&Young LLP, each of thegroup.
theChairman and includes those whom wereinvited to take partin a identified inthe table opposite.
Ruths ownperformance review was undertaken bythe Chairman.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 61 considers each conflict situation Thislonger term viability statement 2016 objectives separately on its particular facts: issetout on page 53.
Board meetings considers the conflict situation Internal control and risk management More time to be taken for reflective inconjunction with the rest of the The directors confirm that the board has discussion and debate after divisional conflicted directors duties under undertaken a robust assessment of the presentations with feedback provided the2006 Act: principal risks facing the group, including tothe Chief Executive to share, as appropriate, with divisional management.
those that could threaten its business keeps records and board minutes as model, future performance, solvency to authorisations granted by directors Non-executive directors orliquidity.
A description of the principal and the scope of any approvals Non-executive directors encouraged risks and how they are being managed given:and totake more opportunities to engage and mitigated is set out on pages 48 withthe businesses beyond the initial regularly reviews conflict authorisation.
visits organised as part of the induction programme to enable them to build Accountability The board acknowledges its adeeper understanding of the Financial and business reporting responsibilities for monitoring the groupsoperations.
The board is required by the Code groups risk management and internal Recognising that the involvement of topresent a fair, balanced and control systems to facilitate the thenon-executive directors could be of understandable assessment of the identification, assessment and benefit to the individual businesses, and Companys position, performance, management of risk, the protection given their willingness to provide advice business model and strategy.
In relation ofshareholders investments and the based on their business experience, a to this requirement, reference is made to groups assets.
The directors recognise more detailed description of their areas the statement of directors responsibilities that they are responsible for providing ofexpertise to be compiled and made for preparing the financial statements set areturn to shareholders, which is available to the businesses to facilitate out on page 91 of this annual report and consistent with the responsible knowledge and skills transfer.
The board recognises that its assessment and mitigation of risks.
responsibility to present a fair, balanced Risk management Effective controls ensure that the The non-executive directors desired and understandable assessment extends groupsexposure to avoidable risk greater visibility of emerging strategic to interim and other price-sensitive isminimised, that proper accounting risks.
Future divisional presentations publicreports, reports to regulators, records are maintained, that the toinclude more detail in this area.
andinformation required to be financialinformation used within presentedby statutory requests.
Succession and talent thebusiness is reliable andthat the There should be further emphasis and Business model consolidated accounts preparation and discussion, with input from all members, A description of the Companys business financial reporting processes comply on the future shape of the board through model for sustainable growth is set out with all relevant regulatory reporting more frequent meetings of the Nomination in the group business model and strategy requirements.
A need to spend more time section on pages 8 and 9 and in the group and the environment within on the critical issue of non-board executive business strategies section on pages whichit operates arecontinually succession was also highlighted.
These sections provide an evolvingtogether with itsexposure explanation of the basis on which the torisk.
The systems are designed Audit committee group generates value and preserves tomanage, rather than eliminate, the Acknowledging the opportunity, with achange of committee chairman, to itover the long term and its strategy riskofassets being unprotected and to makea few practical changes to facilitate fordelivering its objectives.
guardagainst their unauthorised use the running of the meetings and the andthe failure to achieve business Going concern and viability functioning of the committee.
Internal controls can After making enquiries the directors onlyprovide reasonable andnot havea reasonable expectation that the absoluteassurance against material Based on the outcome of the 2016 Company and the group have adequate misstatement or loss.
review, it was concluded that the board resources to continue in operational and its committees were continuing to existence for a period of at least 12 The directors confirm that there is a function very effectively with a good months from the date of approval of process for identifying, evaluating and balance of support, challenge and mutual these annual financial statements.
managing the risks faced by the group trust between the executives and the Accordingly, and consistent with the and the operational effectiveness of non-executives.
Each of the directors guidance contained in the document therelated controls, which has been was considered to be making a valuable titled Guidance on Risk Management, inplace for the year under review and contribution and with proper commitment, Internal Control and Related Financial uptothe date of approval of the annual including of time, to their respective roles.
and Business Reporting published by report and accounts.
They also confirm the FRC in 2014, they continue to adopt that they have regularly monitored the Conflicts of interest procedure the going concern basis in preparing effectiveness of the risk management The Company has procedures in theannual financial statements.
and internal control systems which placetodeal with the situation where cover all material controls including adirector has a conflict of interest.
The Code requires the directors to financial, operational and compliance Aspart of this process, the board: assess and report on the prospects controls utilising the review process ofthe group over a longer period.
setout on the following page.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Standards Internal audit being both to develop shareholders There are guidelines on the minimum The groups businesses employ internal understanding of the Companys groupwide requirements for health and auditors both employees and resources strategy, operations and performance safety and environmental standards.
provided by major accounting firms other and to provide the board with awareness There are also guidelines on the than the firm involved in the audit of the of the views of significant shareholders.
minimum level of internal control that group with skills and experience relevant At each board meeting, the directors are each of the divisions should exercise to the operation of each business.
briefed on shareholder meetings that over specified processes.
Each business Allofthe internal audit activities are have taken place and on feedback has developed and documented policies co-ordinated centrally by the groups received, including any significant and procedures to comply with the Director of Financial Control, who is concerns raised.
minimum control standards established, accountable to the Audit committee.
Each year, the Chairman issues an including procedures for monitoring All group businesses are required to invitation to the Companys largest compliance and taking corrective action.
comply with the groups financial control institutional shareholders to hear The board of each business is required framework that sets out minimum control theirviews and discuss any issues toconfirm twice yearly that it has standards.
A key function of the groups orconcerns on governance, strategy complied with these policies internal audit resources is to undertake andremuneration.
audits to ensure compliance with the theChairman held meetings with a High level controls financial control framework and make number of institutional shareholders All operations prepare annual operating recommendations for improvement andadvisory bodies to discuss a range plans and budgets which are updated incontrols where appropriate.
Internal oftopics including the Companys draft regularly.
Performance against budget audit also conducts regular reviews to update ofits remuneration policy which ismonitored at operational level and ensure that risk management procedures isto bepresented for approval at the centrally, with variances being reported and controls are observed.
The Audit 2016 annual general meeting.
The cash position at group and committee receives regular reports on discussion of the issues, including how operational level is monitored constantly the results of internal audits work and the feedback was taken into account and variances from expected levels are monitors the status of recommendations infinalising the policy, is set out in the investigated thoroughly.
The committee reviews annually Remuneration report on page 69. the adequacy, qualifications and Clearly defined guidelines have been On the day of the announcement of the experience of the groups internal audit established for capital expenditure and final and interim results, the Companys resources and the nature and scope of investment decisions.
These include the largest shareholders, together with internal audit activity in the overall context preparation of budgets, appraisal and financial analysts, are invited to a of the groups risk management system.
review procedures and delegated presentation with a question and The Director of Financial Control meets authority levels.
answersession by the Chief Executive with the chairman of the Audit committee and Finance Director, with webcast Financial reporting as appropriate but at least annually, presentations of the results available for Detailed management accounts without the presence of executive all shareholders through the Companys areprepared every four weeks, management, and has direct access website.
Following the results, the consolidated in a single system and tothe Chairman of the board.
executive team hold one-to-one and reviewed by senior management Remuneration group meetings with institutional andtheboard.
They include a A separate Remuneration report is set shareholders and potential investors.
comprehensive set of financial reports outon pages 69 to 87 which provides and key performance indicators covering The Company Secretary acts as a focal details of our remuneration policy and commercial, operational, environmental point for communications on matters how it has been implemented, together and people issues.
During the with the activities of the Remuneration budgets and forecasts is discussed year, the Company responded to requests committee.
regularly at board meetings and at for meetings, telephone meetings or meetings between operational and Articles of association written information from both existing and and share capital groupmanagement.
The adequacy and potential institutional shareholders on a Information in relation to share capital, suitability of key performance indicators broad range of environmental, social and the appointment and powers of isreviewed regularly.
All chief executives governance risk matters including food directors, the issue and buy back of and finance directors of the groups and beverage safety, nutrition, additives shares and significant interests in share operations are asked to sign an annual and packaging, climate change related capital is set out in the Directors report confirmation that their business has matters, supply chain management, on pages 88 to 90. complied with the Group Accounting water risk management, animal welfare, Manual in the preparation of consolidated corporate ethics, gender balance and Relations with shareholders financial statements and specifically succession planning.
Shareholder engagement toconfirm the adequacy andaccuracy The board recognises its responsibility The Senior Independent Director is ofaccounting provisions.
for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue available to shareholders in the event takes place with shareholders.
During that communication with the Chairman, the year, the board has continued to Chief Executive or Finance Director maintain an active programme of hasfailed to resolve concerns or engagement with investors, the aim wheresuch contact is inappropriate.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 63 TheSenior Independent Director Governance attended sufficient meetings with a Members of the Nomination NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT range of major shareholders to listen committeeare appointed by the totheir views in order to develop boardfrom amongst the directors of Members abalanced understanding of theCompany, inconsultation with the During the year and at the date ofthisreport: theirconcerns.
Thecommittee comprises Charles Sinclair Chairman aminimum ofthree members at The Company reports formally to Ruth Cairnie from 1 November 2015 anytime, a majority of whom are shareholders in a number of ways.
Tim Clarke independent non-executive directors.
Significant matters relating to trading Javier Ferrn Aquorum consists of two members ordevelopment of the business, Wolfhart Hauser from 13 April 2016 being either two independent Lord Jay until 30 November 2015 androutine reporting obligations, are non-executive directors or one Peter Smith until 13 April 2016 disseminated by way of Stock Exchange independent non-executive director announcements and by press releases.
Interim results are announced in April In accordance with its terms of reference, each year and full year results in Only members of the committee the Nomination committees primary November, followed by the publication havetheright to attend committee responsibilities include: ofthe formal annual report and accounts.
Other individuals such as leading the process for board theChief Executive, members of In line with best practice, the Companys appointments and making seniormanagement, headof human default means of communication is recommendations to the board: resources and external advisors may online although shareholders can opt regularly reviewing the board beinvited to attend meetings as into receive documents in paper form structure, size and composition andwhen appropriate.
The Companys website includingthe skills, knowledge, www.
co. uk provides current and The Chairman does not chair the independence, experience and historical financial information, including Nomination committee when it is diversity, recommending any trading statements, news releases, dealingwith the appointment of his necessarychanges: financial results presentations, and a successor.
In these circumstances considering plans for orderly wealth of other information regarding thecommittee ischaired by an successionfor appointments to the Associated British Foods.
independent non-executive director boardand tosenior management elected by theremaining members.
tomaintain anappropriate balance Annual general meeting AGM ofskillsand experience within the The 2016 AGM will be held on Friday, The committee may take independent Company and toensure progressive 9December 2016 at 11.00 am at the professional advice on any matters refreshment oftheboard: Congress Centre in London.
The board covered by its terms of reference at keeping under review the leadership considers that the AGM provides a theCompanys expense.
needs of the group, both executive valuable communication opportunity andnon-executive, to ensure The committee chairman reports the forprivate shareholders, in particular, thecontinued ability of the group outcome of meetings to the board.
tohear about the general development organisation to compete efficiently of the business and to ask questions inthemarketplace: and The terms of reference of the Nomination ofthe Chairman and, through him, committee are available on the Investors being responsible for identifying thechairmen of the key committees section of the Companys website andnominating, for the approval andother directors.
oftheboard, candidates to fill board oftheboard are available to talk to vacanciesas and when they arise.
Board appointments process shareholders after the meeting.
The process for making new A trading update is provided at the appointments is led by the Chairman.
meeting and, each year, the Company Where appropriate, external, independent shows a short film at the meeting consultants are engaged to conduct a highlighting a particular area of the search for potential candidates, who are groups business.
At this years AGM, considered on the basis of their skills, the film will focus on the move to full experience and fit with the existing ownership by Associated British Foods members of the board.
The Nomination ofIllovo Sugar Limited.
committee has procedures for appointing a non-executive or an executive director The Notice of AGM, which sets out in and these are set out in its terms full the resolutions for consideration by ofreference.
shareholders together with explanatory notes, has been sent to shareholders Meetings and is also available on the Investors The committee met once during the section of the Companys website yearunder review.
All resolutions for which notice has been given will bedecided on a poll.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committee activities during the year toits diversity policy but candidates Appointment of a new independent forfuture board appointments will be AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT non-executive director considered from the widest possible The Nomination committee and the pool.
Gender remains an important Members board adhere to the principle that aspect of the overall diversity, and it is During the year and at the date ofthisreport: appointments to the board should ourpolicy to ask any executive search Richard Reid member and chairman bemade on the basis of merit.
agencies engaged to ensure that half from 14 April 2016 ofthe candidates they put forward During the year, as part of an ongoing Peter Smith member and chairman forconsideration are women.
programme for the progressive until13 April 2016 refreshing of the board, the Chairman Looking beyond the board to the Ruth Cairnie Javier Ferrn until 26 October 2015 ledthe process for the appointment groupswider workforce, we recognise Lord Jay until 30 November 2015 ofanew independent non-executive that true diversity can only be achieved Wolfhart Hauser director, who could also take on the when the entire workforce is committed roleof Audit committee chairman.
There are a number of Primary responsibilities ongoing initiatives across Associated It is generally the committees practice In accordance with its terms of British Foods which aim to promote toengage the services of an independent reference, the Audit committees diversity.
A groupwide gender diversity executive search consulting firm, or to  include: task force, which includes representation consider open advertising, to assist in Financial reporting from across the five divisions of the the search for potential candidates from monitoring the integrity of the groups business, has as one of its principal a range of backgrounds.
Cognisant of the financial statements and any formal objectives the aim of ensuring that fact that the Audit committee chairman announcements relating to the thereare no barriers preventing talented role, vacated on the retirement from the Companys performance, reviewing people from succeeding.
Senior and significant financial reporting board of Peter Smith on 13 April 2016, high-potential women are invited to judgementscontained in them required a particular set of financial skills, joinanother initiative, the Womens beforetheir submission to expertise and experience, the board Business Education Forum, which the board: considered potential candidates from meetsseveral times a year providing informing the board of the outcome thevery highest level of the accounting achance for networking, learning of thegroups external audit and profession.
On this occasion the andsupport for personal career explaining how itcontributed to the committee took the view that this development.
For a number of years, integrity offinancial reporting: approach would achieve the right outcome training in unconscious bias has been reviewing and challenging, where for the Company and accordingly that included in the groups leadership necessary, the consistency of, and itwas not necessary to use the services development programme and this changes to, accounting and treasury of a search consulting firm or to utilise training is now being extended to a policies: whether the group has open advertising.
followedappropriate accounting wider group of managers: the training policiesand made appropriate Richard Reid, formerly a partner at aims to build awareness and challenge estimatesand judgements: KPMG, was identified as the outstanding commonly held myths around diversity.
 of candidate who best fulfilled the brief Re-election of disclosure: significant adjustments developed by the committee.
Following non-executive directors resulting fromthe audit: the going aseries of rigorous interviews with concern assumption, the viability The committee reviewed the results members of the board, on the statement, andcompliance with ofthe annual board performance recommendation of the Nomination auditingstandards: evaluation that related to the committee, the board approved the Narrative reporting composition of the board and the appointment of Richard Reid with at the boards request, reviewing timeneeded to fulfil the roles of effectfrom 14 April 2016.
Biographical thecontent of the annual report and Chairman, Senior Independent details about Richard can be found accounts and advising the board on Directorand non-executive director.
whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, onpage 55.
Information about how Itwas satisfied that all members balanced and understandable and theboard determined his independence oftheboard are devoting sufficient provides the information necessary for is set out in the section on board timetotheir duties.
shareholders to assess the Companys composition on page 58. position and performance, business The committee considered the Diversity policy model and strategy: re-election of directors prior to As a board, we recognise that where requested by the board, theirrecommended approval by diversityiskey for introducing different assistingin relation to the boards shareholdersat the annual general perspectives into board debate and assessment ofthe principal risks meeting.
A genuinely diverse facingthe Company and the prospects who have beenon the board for ofthe Company for the purposes of board comprises individuals with morethan sixyears were subject disclosures required inthe annual arangeof personal attributes,  review.
reportand accounts: perspectives, skills, experience and backgrounds, as well as representing The committees effectiveness differences in nationality, race and gender.
isreviewed on an annual basis as The board has decided against setting partofthe boards performance anymeasurable objectives in relation evaluationprocess.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 65 Governance The committee invites the Group The Audit committee comprises a Finance Director, Group Financial Primary responsibilities continued minimum of three members, all of whom Controller, Director of Financial Internal financial controls are independent non-executive directors Controland senior representatives reviewing the effectiveness of the of the Company.
Two members constitute oftheexternal auditors to attend its groups internal financial controls, a quorum.
Appointments are for a period meetings in full, although it reserves including the policies and overall of three years after which they are subject theright torequest any of these processfor assessing established to annual review, extendable by two individuals to withdraw.
Other senior systems of internal financial control further three-year periods so long as managers are invited to present andtimeliness and effectiveness members continue to be independent.
suchreports as are required for the ofcorrective action taken Any term beyond six years is subject to committee to dischargeits duties.
No members Whistleblowing and fraud During the year, the committee of the committee have served a term of overseeing the groups policies, heldfourmeetings with the external more than six years.
Membership of the procedures and controls for preventing auditors without any executive Audit committee was refreshed during bribery, identifying money laundering, membersof the board being present.
andthe groups arrangements the year: Richard Reid was appointed to forwhistleblowing: the committee as its chairman on 14 April The committee has unrestricted Internal audit 2016 following the retirement of Peter accessto Company documents and monitoring and reviewing the role, Smith as a non-executive director and information, as well as to employees effectiveness and independence chairman of the Audit committee on ofthe Company and the external ofthegroups internal audit function 13April 2016: Javier Ferrn stepped auditors.
inthecontext of the groups overall down as a member on 26 October 2015: financial risk management system: and The committee may take independent and Lord Jay ceased to be a member professional advice on any matters External audit ofthe committee on his retirement covered by its terms of reference at overseeing the relationship with the asanon-executive director on groups external auditors, including theCompanys expense.
30November 2015. reporting to the board each year whether The committee chairman reports the it considers the audit contract should be The committee structure requires outcome of meetings to the board.
put out to tender, adhering to any legal theinclusion of at least one financially requirements for tendering or rotation of qualified member as recognised The committees effectiveness the audit services contract as appropriate, bytheConsultative Committee of isreviewed on an annual basis as reviewing and monitoring the external Accountancy Bodies with recent partofthe boards performance auditors objectivity and independence, andrelevant financial experience and evaluationprocess.
agreeing the scope of their work and competence in accounting or auditing fees paid to them for audit, assessing The terms of reference of the orboth.
The committee chairmen theeffectiveness of the audit process, Auditcommittee were reviewed and agreeing the policy in relation fulfilled this requirement during andupdatedduring the year and can totheprovision of non-audit services.
All committee members beviewed on the Investors section areexpected tobefinancially literate of the Companys website andtohave an understanding of www.
thefollowing areas: Meetings the principles of, and developments The Audit committee met four times in, financial reporting including the during the year.
The committee applicable accounting standards agendaare linked to events in the andstatements of recommended groups financial calendar.
practice: Activities during the year key aspects of the Companys In order to fulfil its terms of reference, operations including corporate the Audit committee receives and policies and the groups internal reviews presentations and reports control environment: fromthe groups senior management, matters which may influence consulting as necessary with the thepresentation of accounts external auditors.
andkeyfigures: Monitoring the integrity of the principles of, and developments reported financial information in, company law, sector-specific Ensuring the integrity of the lawsand other relevant corporate financialstatements and associated legislation: announcements is a fundamental responsibility of the Audit committee.
the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: and the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the year it formally reviewed any significant adjustments to statements.
The committee has, thegroups interim and annual reports, financial reporting arising from withsupport fromErnst & Young as including the associated pre-close theaudit: external auditor, reviewed the suitability periodtrading updates, and the trading of the accounting policies which have litigation and contingent liabilities updates issued for the first and third been adopted andwhether management affecting the group: and quarters.
These reviews considered: hasmade appropriate estimates potential tax contingencies, andjudgements.
the accounting principles, policies compliance with statutory tax andpractices adopted in the groups Set out below are the areas considered obligations and the groups financial statements, any proposed by the Audit committee to be the most tax policy.
changes to them, and the adequacy significant accounting issues and a of their disclosure: Significant accounting description of how the committee issuesconsidered by the Audit concluded that such judgements and important accounting issues, areas committeeinrelation to the estimates were appropriate.
These ofcomplexity and the actions,  aredivided between those that could estimates and judgements of A key responsibility of the committee have a material impact on the financial management inrelation to financial isto consider the significant areas of statements and those that are less reporting andinparticular the complexity, management judgement likelyto have a material impact assumptions underlying the going andestimation that have been applied butnevertheless, by their nature, concern and viability statements: inthe preparation of the financial requiredadegree of estimation.
Significant accounting issues material Audit committee assurance to the group financial statements Impairment of goodwill, intangible The committee considered the reasonableness of cash flow projections which were andtangible assets basedon the most recent budget approved by the board and reflected managements Assessment for impairment involves expectations of sales growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience and comparing the book value of an asset with external sources of information.
Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the its recoverable amount being the higher of annual budget were challenged to ensure they were appropriate for the products, industries value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
and countries in which the relevant cash generating units operate.
The committee also Value in use is determined with reference reviewed and challenged the key assumptions made in deriving these projections: discount toprojected future cash flows discounted rates, growth rates, and expected changes in production and sales volumes, selling prices atan appropriate rate.
Both the cash flows and direct costs.
The committee also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in and the discount rate involve a significant respectof the key assumptions and sensitivities.
Refer to notes 8 and 9 to the financial degree of estimation uncertainty.
statements for more details of these assumptions.
The committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions appropriately reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with theparticular assets.
The other key assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The external auditor explained the results of their own review of the estimate of value in use, including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections as well asthe long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
On the basis of their audit work, and their challenge of the key assumptions and associated sensitivities, they concurred with managements conclusion that no impairments were required.
Tax provisions The committee reviews the Companys tax policy and principles for managing tax The level of current and deferred tax risksannually.
recognised in the financial statements is The committee reviewed and challenged the provisions recorded at the balance sheet dependent on subjective judgements as to dateand management confirmed that they represent their best estimate of the likely the outcome of decisions by tax authorities financial exposure faced by the group.
invarious jurisdictions around the world The external auditor explained to the committee the work they had conducted during andthe ability of the group to use tax theyear, including how their audit procedures were focused on those provisions requiring losseswithin the time limits imposed by thehighest degree of judgement.
The committee discussed with both management and thevarious tax authorities.
See also the external auditor the key judgements which had been made.
It was satisfied that the referenceto taxation on page 42. judgements were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded wereappropriate.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 67 Other accounting areas requiring Audit committee assurance management judgement or estimation Biological assets The sugar business has a good track record of calculating reliable estimates and any The valuation of growing sugar cane significant over or under-estimation becomes apparent in subsequent profit realisation.
requiresmanagement to estimate: Actual results were reviewed for consistency of measurement in the light of profit budgets the sucrose content in the cane and and forecasts and the actual results of prior periods.
The committee was satisfied that theexpected cane and sucrose yields appropriate assumptions had been made and consistently applied.
As growing sugar cane forthefollowing season taking into represents less than 1% of total assets and 1% of net assets, material misstatement of account weather conditions, harvesting thefinancial statements was considered unlikely.
programmes, and an assessment of The committee also reviewed the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivities thematurity of the cane at the balance tounobservable inputs on the fair valuation of biological assets note 16 and the change sheet date: and ofaccounting policy for cane roots page 106. the sucrose price, which depends on themarkets to which the forthcoming cropislikely to be sold, the probable domestic and export prices, and related foreign currency exchange rates.
Post-retirement benefits Actuarial valuations of the groups pension scheme obligations are undertaken every Valuation of the groups pension threeyears by independent qualified actuaries who also provide advice to management schemesand post-retirement medical onthe assumptions to be used in preparing the accounting valuations each year.
Details benefit schemes require various subjective ofthe assumptions made in the current and previous year are disclosed in note 11 ofthe judgements to be made including mortality financial statements together with the bases on which those assumptions have been made.
assumptions, discount rates, general and The committee reviewed the assumptions by comparison with externally derived data salary inflation, and the rate of increase andalso considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the forpensions in payment and those surplusor deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
Misstatements reports on fraud perpetrated changes since the last annual Management reported to the committee againstthe group: assessment of the significant that they were not aware of any material financialrisks and the groups the groups approach to IT, cyber or immaterial misstatements made abilitytorespond to changes security and whistleblowing: and intentionally to achieve a particular initsbusiness and the presentation.
The auditors reported to reports on significant systems externalenvironment.
the committee the misstatements that implementations.
Whistleblowing and Fraud they had found in the course of their Internal audit The groups whistleblowing work.
After due consideration the The Audit committee is required policycontains arrangements for an committee concurred with management toassistthe board to fulfil its independent external service provider that these misstatements were not responsibilities relating to the adequacy toreceive, in confidence, complaints material and that no adjustments ofthe resourcing and plans of internal onaccounting, risk issues, internal wererequired.
To fulfil these duties, the controls, auditing issues and related Internal financial control committee reviewed: matters forreporting to the Audit and risk management committee asappropriate.
The Audit internal audits reporting lines and The committee is required to assist committee reviewed reports from access to the committee and all theboard to fulfil its responsibilities internal audit andthe external members of the board: relating to the adequacy and serviceprovider andtheactions effectiveness of the control environment, internal audits plans and its arisingtherefrom.
controls over financial reporting and the achievement of the planned activity: The groups anti-fraud policy has groups compliance with the UK the results of key audits and other beencommunicated to all employees Corporate Governance Code.
To fulfil significant findings, the adequacy andstates that all employees have these duties, the committee reviewed: ofmanagements response and aresponsibility for fraud prevention the external auditors management thetimeliness of their resolution: anddetection.
Any suspicion of fraud letters and their Audit committee should be reported immediately statistics on staff numbers, reports: andwillbe investigated vigorously.
qualifications and experience TheAuditcommittee reviewed all internal audit reports on key audit andtimeliness of reporting: instances of fraud perpetrated against areas and significant deficiencies in the nature and extent of non-audit theCompany and the action taken the financial control environment: activity performed by internal bymanagement both to pursue reports on the systems of internal audit:and theperpetrators and toprevent financial control and risk management: recurrences.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE External audit The Audit committee has formally To fulfil its responsibility for oversight Auditor independence reviewed the independence of its ofthe external audit process, the Audit The Audit committee is responsible for auditors.
Ernst & Young LLP has committee reviewed: the development, implementation and provided a letter confirming that the terms, areas of responsibility, monitoring of policies and procedures itbelieves it remained independent associated duties and scope of onthe use of the external auditor throughout the year, within the theaudit as set out in the external fornon-audit services, in accordance meaningof the regulations on this auditors engagement letter: withprofessional and regulatory matter and in accordance with their requirements.
These policies are kept professional standards.
the overall work plan and fee proposal: under review to meet the objective To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the the major issues that arose during the ofensuring that the group benefits independence of the external auditors, course of the audit and their resolution: inacost-effective manner from the the Audit committee reviewed: cumulative knowledge and experience key accounting and audit judgements: ofits auditors whilst also ensuring that a report from the external auditors the level of errors identified during the auditors maintain the necessary describing their arrangements to the audit: and degree of independence and objectivity.
identify, report and manage any The committee has revised its policy on conflicts of interest, and their policies recommendations made by the the use of the external auditor to provide and procedures for maintaining external auditors in their management non-audit services, in accordance with independence and monitoring letters and the adequacy of applicable laws and taking into account compliance with relevant managements response.
the relevant ethical guidance for auditors.
requirements: and Auditor appointment Any non-audit work to be undertaken the extent of non-audit services The Audit committee reviews bythe auditor now requires authorisation provided by the external auditors.
annuallythe appointment of the by the Group Finance Director and auditor, taking into account the auditors theAudit committee prior to its The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP effectiveness and independence, commencement.
The committee also for the year ended 17 September 2016 andmakes arecommendation to the ensures that fees incurred, or to be were 6.7m of which 1.2m related board accordingly.
Any decision to incurred, for non-audit services both tonon-audit work.
Further details opentheexternal audit to tender is taken individually and in aggregate, do not areprovided in note 2 to the onthe recommendation of the Audit exceed any limits in applicable law and financialstatements.
There are no contractual take into account the relevant ethical Consideration is also given by the Audit obligations that restrict the Companys guidance for auditors.
committee to the need to include the current choice of external auditor.
The committee is required to approve risk of the withdrawal of the external In accordance with the requirements theuse of the external auditor to auditors from the market in its risk ofthe 2014 UK Corporate Governance provide:accounting advice and training: evaluation and planning.
Code and other changes to the EU and corporate responsibility and other Auditor effectiveness UK regulatory framework, the Audit assurance services: financial due To assess the effectiveness of the committee undertook a comprehensive diligence in respect of acquisitions external auditors, the committee competitive tender for the external anddisposals: and will consider other reviewed: auditduring 2015 and the appointment services when it is in the best interests ofErnst & Young LLP to replace the of the Company to do so, provided they the external auditors fulfilment of Companys previous auditors was can be undertaken without jeopardising theagreed audit plan and variations approved by shareholders at the AGM auditor independence.
With effect from it: on4 December 2015.
Accordingly, from18 September 2016, tax services reports highlighting the major theCompany has no current including tax compliance, tax planning issuesthat arose during the course retenderingplans.
and related implementation advice ofthe audit: maynot be undertaken by the external Compliance with the CMA Order The Company confirms that, during auditor.
The aggregate expenditure feedback from the businesses theperiod under review, it has complied withthe group auditor is reviewed by evaluating the performance of with the provisions of The Statutory theAudit committee.
No individually eachassigned audit team: and Audit Services for Large Companies significant non-audit assignments a report from the Audit Quality Market Investigation Mandatory Use thatwould require disclosure were Review Team of the Financial ofCompetitive Tender Processes and undertaken in the financial year.
Audit Committee Responsibilities The Company has a policy that any Order2014.
The Audit committee holds private partners, directors or senior managers meetings with the external auditors hired directly from the external auditors aftereach committee meeting to must be pre-approved by the Group reviewkey issues within their sphere HRDirector, and the Group Finance ofinterest and responsibility.
Director or Group Financial Controller, with the chairman of the Audit committee being consulted as appropriate.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 69 REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Remuneration committee chairman DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS oftheSugar businesses.
Across the George Weston has requested I am pleased to present the Directors totalincentives package, 68% of thathisincentive opportunity as a Remuneration report for the year themaximum financial performance percentage of salary be consistent ended 17 September 2016 on behalf measurement will remain based on withthat of theGroup Finance ofthe board.
theperformance of the whole group Directorrather than being aligned This Remuneration report is split and32% will be based on performance withthe higher market levels typical intotwo sections: excluding Sugar.
We believe that it is forChief Executives.
Bearing in a new directors remuneration right to make this change now in view mindthat we intend these incentive policy: and ofthe uncertainties faced by the EU arrangements to endure without sugar industry over the next few years.
material change for many years, the annual implementation thecommittee needs to ensure reportonremuneration.
We propose adopting a return on thattheremuneration policy is not a average capital employed ROCE Review of remuneration policy barriertofuture succession.
As such, modifier on the LTIP.
The modifier will Last year I explained that we had we areallowing flexibility within our beused to adjust the calculated outcome decided to undertake a complete remuneration policy for our incentive based on eps performance downwards review of the groups incentive plans to offer a fully market-competitive if ROCE targets have not been delivered.
arrangements during the course package to any future Chief Executive.
We are seeking shareholder approval ofthisyear.
fora new set of LTIP rules at this years Shareholder engagement The starting point of our review was AGMto ensure that the LTIP can be In May and June 2016 we consulted areflection on the shape and nature of operated consistently with the extensively with our largest shareholders the groups portfolio and the challenges remuneration policy.
and their representative bodies on our that our business model presents in remuneration structure.
We welcomed We considered the marketdesigning incentives that align with the constructive feedback provided competitiveness of our reward package ourremuneration principles and fairly andhave taken full account of it in and concluded that, whilst our salaries reward performance.
are well aligned with companies of a considered adviceon market practice comparable size in the FTSE 100 and Shareholders appreciated: from our remuneration advisors, reflect the tenure and experience of our WillisTowers Watson, the main the introduction of a return-based executive directors, our incentives have elements of this plan were developed performance measure on the LTIP: fallen materially behind market levels.
This is consistent We are a global organisation with the increase from 100% of salary with the subsequent report of the businesses in 50 countries operating in to250% of salary in the level Executive Remuneration Working different industries.
We therefore need ofshareholding required of our Group of the Investment Association experienced leaders to run the group executive directors: ERWG and enabled us to focuson well, in the interests of all of our what would drive business performance the agreement to disclose STIP stakeholders.
Although wishing to guard rather than aligning with aone size targets retrospectively: and against the inflationary effect of using fits all external norm.
market data, the committee believes it the addition of value in the form Our businesses are diverse, not only has a duty to investors to ensure that ofshares rather than cash.
interms of their products and services remuneration arrangements for senior We discussed with our investors but also in terms of their life cycles and executives aresufficiently attractive to waysof ensuring that sugar price their contribution to total shareholder retain thetalented individuals that run volatility is properly dealt with in our return.
Financial analysts value the ourbusinesses.
A significant majority Companys shares on a sumof We are therefore proposing the agreedwith our proposed approach.
theparts basis, attributing agreater additionof a new incentive element Some other alternatives that were price-earnings multiple to Primark witha maximum value of 50% of suggested included: thanto Sugar.
Profitability inthe Sugar salaryin the form of a deferred award business in recent years has been measuring group eps over the ofsharesthat will be released to volatile.
World and European sugar length of the sugar cycle or on participants three years from the start prices, which are outside management arolling multi-year basis: ofthe Short Term Incentive Plan STIP control, can have an impact on incentive performance period.
We have chosen using strategy-aligned metrics: or outcomes that is disproportionate to ashare-based incentive to reflect the their impact onshareholders.
substituting eps with a total performance of the business over shareholder return TSR measure.
To address the above concerns we timeand provide a link between short propose introducing a second adjusted andlong-term performance.
We have earnings per share eps measure into astrong history of setting stretching the long term incentive plan LTIP, performance targets on the STIP which excludes the performance andthis will continue.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Remuneration committee chairman We considered these suggestions The range itself varies each year, The 201316 LTIP target range was andconcluded that: takinginto account the risks and setwhen the profit in the Sugar opportunities facing the business.
With the phasing in a longer eps cycle would subsequent fall in world and European be problematic as there is no clearly As outlined above, we are adopting sugar prices, the profit of our Sugar defined fixed length of sugar cycle twoperformance measures for the LTIP business has decreased to 34m and, at the outset, judgement would as Sugar profitability has been more thisyear.
In this context, delivering be required to determine whether volatile than that of our other businesses.
significant eps growth over the toinclude historic performance When setting the LTIP targets, the performance period has been orbuild up the average from committee conducts an analysis of the challenging.
As a result, no shares thatpoint: challenges and growth opportunities willvest to executive directors under facing each of the divisions over the in our decentralised model, theLTIP this year.
This pattern could performance period.
Target eps ranges long-term qualitative strategic berepeated for 2016 17 hence our are tested to ensure that they are metrics are more appropriately proposal to treat Sugar, in part, sufficiently stretching.
usedto incentivise divisional separately for future incentives.
management: and We are in a period of exceptional I trust that this provides a economic uncertainty in the post making awards in the form helpfuloverview of the work of EUreferendum environment and our ofshares gives absolute TSR thecommitteethis year and the performance ranges for the 201619 alignment without the challenges decisionsit has made.
We trust that LTIPcycle will reflect this.
The eps target ofa relative TSR measure when youwill support our remuneration range with Sugar removed is wider there are no truly comparable policy whichwe firmly believe this year than we would expect it to be companies against which to balancestheneed to be fair and in future asa result of the volatility in measure ourselves.
provide appropriate reward with the foreign exchange rates and the risks over-arching requirement to ensure We also considered the use of andopportunities facing our portfolio alignment with shareholder interests.
restricted shares i. e. a share allocation ofnon-Sugar businesses.
The ranges that vests after a certain time without and targets with Sugar in and Sugar out Charles Sinclair any performance conditions applying are very similar this year, reflecting the Remuneration committee chairman but concluded that for such senior above and the operating profit of Sugar rolesin our organisation, performance in2015 16.
We would not normally related targets as set out in our expectthis to be the case.
Our 2015 16 performance discussions with shareholders noted and incentive outcomes the importance of setting stretching Our performance expectations performance targets and acknowledged atthestart of 2015 16 were for a that we are an organisation that seeks modestdecline in adjusted eps.
Thiswas taken into account when Taking into account all of the setting the STIP adjusted operating feedbackreceived, some of which profittargets, which were intended wascontradictory, we determined todrive the best performance thatthe proposed approach to outcomesfor our investors over incentives is aligned with shareholder the year.
The actual adjusted eps for the year Performance targets wasbetter than expected benefiting In setting our incentive targets from the delivery of substantial cost wehaveregard to the performance reduction and efficiency improvements potential of the different parts of ina number of businesses but thebusiness and of the whole.
particularly in Sugar: a further profit Theon-target performance level recovery in Ingredients: an excellent forSTIP is set at the start of each performance in Primark where the financial year and is at, or close to, impact on garment purchases of thebudgeted level of performance.
lastyears euro devaluation against Thecommittee then sets a range theUSdollar was heavily mitigated around the target to both incentivise bygoodbuying and tight stock deliveryof a stretching performance and management: and a benefit from the allow for limited under performance due translation of overseas results into to events beyond management control.
sterling following its substantial weakening against most of our tradingcurrencies during the year.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 71 This report This report sets out: the remuneration policy that, if approved, will apply to executive and non-executive directors from the date of the 2016 AGM: how the existing policy, approved in 2014, was implemented: the amounts earned by our executive and non-executive directors in the year ended 17 September 2016: and how we expect to implement the proposed remuneration policy.
The Directors remuneration policy set out on pages 75 to 81 will be subject to a binding vote at the 2016 AGM of the Company.
The committee chairmans letter, this introduction and the annual implementation report on directors remuneration set out on pages 82 to 87 willbe subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM of the Company.
The vote will have advisory status in respect of overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Compliance Where information in this report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP it has been clearly indicated.
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Role of the Remuneration committee The committee is responsible to the board for determining: the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Chairman taking into account remuneration trends across the Company: the specific terms and conditions of employment of each individual director: the overall policy for remuneration for the Chief Executives first and second line reports: the design and monitoring of the operation of any Company share plans: stretching incentive targets for executive directors to encourage enhanced performance: an approach that rewards fairly and responsibly contribution to the Companys long-term success: and other provisions of the executive directors service agreements and ensuring that contractual terms, and payments made, ontermination are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded and loss is mitigated.
The committees remit is set out in detail in its terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and were last updated in September 2015.
They are available at www.
co. uk investorrelations, or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Members of the Remuneration committee The committee comprises the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, and the following members, all of whom areindependent non-executive directors: Role on committee Independence Year of appointment Meetings attended 4 Charles Sinclair Chairman Chairman 2008 6 6 Tim Clarke Member Senior Independent Director 2004 6 6 1 Lord Jay Member Independent Director 2006 1 1 2 Peter Smith Member Independent Director 2007 2 3 Javier Ferrn Member Independent Director 2006 6 6 Ruth Cairnie Member Independent Director 2014 6 6 Wolfhart Hauser Member Independent Director 2015 6 6 3 Richard Reid Member Independent Director 2016 3 3 1 Lord Jay retired in November 2015 and attended the one meeting held before his retirement.
2 Peter Smith retired in April 2016 and attended two of the three meetings held before that date.
3 Richard Reid joined the board on 14 April 2016.
4 The Chairman was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration committee as he had the greatest prior experience of executive reward of any of the non-executive directors.
The Chairman ensures that all board members are kept informed of the remuneration setting process.
George Weston Chief Executive, Des Pullen Group HR Director and Julie Withnall Group Head of Reward attended all of the meetings of the committee.
No individual was present when their own remuneration was being considered.
Remuneration committee advisors and fees Following a competitive tender in 2003, Willis Towers Watson WTW, then Towers Perrin was selected to provide independent advice to the committee.
The committee has retained WTW in this role because it values the robust data and continuity of advice provided over the long term.
The fourth recommendation of ERWG is that the committee should regularly put their remuneration advice out to tender.
The committee remains satisfied that the advice from WTW is independent, thoughtful and challenging andsohas not put this out to tender.
The committee will keep this position under review.
WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code in relation to executive remuneration consulting.
The only other advice that WTW provides to the Company is in survey provision and remuneration benchmarking.
The fees paid to WTW for committee assistance over the past financial year totalled 105,852.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY REVIEW It became clear in 2015 that we would need a different approach to remuneration in future to ensure that our incentive outcomes remain fully aligned with the delivery of stretching performance across our portfolio.
Challenges with previous remuneration policy Over the years since we implemented an LTIP, the vesting outcomes have been as follows: LTIP Cycle 200609 200710 200811 200912 201013 201114 201215 201316 Vesting as % of maximum 0% 99% 84% 100% 100% 100% 19% 0% The exceptional performance in 2012 to 2014 reflected steady growth in our foods business, outstanding performance by Primark and a Sugar performance that benefited from exceptionally high sugar prices.
Primarks contribution to the results in these years meant that we would have been at, or very close to, maximum vesting in this period even without the sugar impact.
However, the level of profit in the Sugar business inflated the starting point for eps targets set at the end of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and the subsequent sugar price declines substantially reduced, or removed entirely, any chance of long-term incentive targets being achieved over the following three years.
We do not intend to make any changes to the LTIP target ranges that have already been set but we believe it is in the interests ofall our investors for us to address the volatility in incentive outcomes for future allocations.
Our Sugar business has delivered an acceptable average return on capital employed ROCE for a number of years and is a stronggenerator of cash.
Its financial performance is, however, affected by agricultural influences which can result in price and often profit volatility, despite its focus on being a very efficient sugar producer.
This has informed our proposals on incentive design for the future.
In particular, it has led us to conclude that we should operate a split eps measure, part of which will excludethe impact of Sugar, and to adjust the outcome of the LTIP downwards if average ROCE for the year is unacceptable.
Remuneration principles Our review of incentives has taken into account our portfolio model, our market positioning for executive remuneration and our remuneration principles.
Our board is accountable for ensuring that the portfolio that we operate is the right one to ALIGNMENT, deliver optimalreturns to shareholders and for ascertaining that the businesses are well run.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND Our remuneration policy aims to align executive rewards with shareholder value creation.
DOING THE RIGHT THING We aim to align remuneration and business objectives through performance measures LINE OF SIGHT to which individuals have line of sight.
We believe that executive pay should be clear and simple for participants to understand.
CLARITY AND SIMPLICITY The best way to achieve this is through alignment with business performance.
Total remuneration should fairly reflect the performance delivered and efforts made FAIRNESS by executives.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 73 Summary of remuneration approach Under these principles we developed our new remuneration proposals, key components of which for the 2016 17 STIP and 201619 LTIP are shown below.
Performance and release timing % of base Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 STIP Cash Performance Cash payment subject to malus clawback.
Personal objectives 20% STIP Cash Financial Adjusted operating profit x working capital modier Performance Cash payment subject to malus clawback.
0.8 to 1.2 130% Performance Deferral Release of shares subject to malus clawback.
Disclosure of performance range that applied to STIP.
Deferred award Financial Absolute TSR alignment As above 50% Release of Performance LTIP adjusted EPS excluding Holding Vests at end of year 3 shares subject Sugar x downwards adjustment to malus based on three-year average Absolute TSR alignment clawback.
1 ROCE excluding Sugar 0.8 to 1x 120% Release of Performance Holding Vests at end of year 3 shares subject LTIP adjusted EPS x downwards to malus adjustment based on three-year Absolute TSR alignment clawback.
1 average ROCE 0.8 to 1x 80% Share Ownership Absolute TSR alignment Requirement 250% 1 Weighting shown applies for 201619 but may change each year.
Alignment to strategy Our remuneration structure is directly aligned with our strategic goals so that pay supports what we are trying to achieve.
Strong Balance Role of Corporate Operating model Do the right thing Organic Growth Sheet and Investments Centre The corporate centre We manage our balance The corporate centre We manage the business We look for long-term agrees strategy and sheet to deliver longprovides selected for the long term.
opportunities to invest budgets with our termfinancial stability.
services and value inthe business.
In the short term we businesses and closely We ensure capital addingcapabilities maymake decisions that We are committed to monitors performance.
funding is available to all tothebusinesses.
reduce profit or increase increasing shareholder Operational decisions of our businesses where Retention of the working capital.
This value through sound aremade locally.
The returns meet exceed individuals with these impacts STIP outcomes.
commercial responsibility corporate centre creates defined criteria.
keyskills at the centre and sustainable business the framework for The new deferred The robust management iscritical to our success.
decisions that deliver leaders to have freedom awardsmean that making of the balance sheet steady growth in in decision-making and STIP and LTIP the right decisions in the ensures that we are earnings and dividends.
ensures activities are performance measures short term will deliver ableto deliver a strong supported and monitored.
under the new policy value through share The STIP deferred awards performance.
should ensure that pricegrowth in the andLTIP shares will The STIP personal The LTIP EPS and ROCE outcomes are linked with following years.
benefit from a dividend targets for executive targets hold executives successful performance equivalent, paid at vesting.
directors are aligned with We will disclose the to account for the outcomes resulting from This gives closer TSR the above.
The ROCE STIPperformance range performance outcomes management effort.
The number and EPS measures on when the deferred oftheir investment of shares vesting will the LTIP will be achieved awards vest.
reflect theoutcomes of if the divisions deliver then be in a position to the decisions made in ontheir strategies.
describe the short-term the performance period.
outcome in the context ofits long-term impact.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 REMUNERATION REPORT New remuneration structures at a glance The table below sets out a summary of how the new remuneration structure will apply during the 2016 17 financial year.
Furtherdetails are set out in the directors remuneration policy and in the annual implementation report for 2016 17.
Remuneration element New remuneration structure Base salary 2017 salaries as follows: Approach is unchanged CEO 1,072,000 2.0% increase effective from 1 December 2016 : and Finance Director 706,000 2.0% increase effective from 1 December 2016.
Pension No change to current pension arrangements for existing executive directors who have benefits under Approach is unchanged the Companys defined benefit scheme and or Employer Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS, which deliver aretirement benefit target of around two-thirds of final pensionable salary at normal retirement age.
Future executive directors who are not already entitled to our defined benefit pension atthetime ofappointment would benefit from a defined contribution arrangement withaCompany contribution orcash equivalent of 25% of salary.
Cash STIP Maximum cash STIP 150% of salary: Approach is unchanged 20% of salary based on personal performance linked to strategic goals: and 130% of salary based on financial performance currently adjusted operating profit withaworking capital multiplier.
Deferred award shares Maximum deferred award 50% of salary: Proposed change based on the same financial targets as the cash STIP financial element: shares vest three years after grant: a dividend equivalent payment is made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, attherelease date: and following release, at least 50% of net shares must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Awards are settled using shares purchased in the market.
LTIP Maximum shares LTIP 200% of salary: Proposed new measures awards made annually:  target vesting is half of maximum and threshold vesting is 10% of maximum: equivalent paymentsand exceptional maximum a portion 60% for the 2016 allocation of the shares vest based on performance against an adjusted eps range with a three-year average ROCE moderator.
For both measures theSugar profit will beremoved and, for the eps measure, interest and tax attributable toSugar will be removed on apre-defined basis: a portion 40% for the 2016 allocation of the shares vest based on performance against agroup adjusted eps range with a three-year average group ROCE moderator: a dividend equivalent payment is made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date: the committee will retain discretion to ensure that outcomes under the plan are consistent with overall performance and to ensure that the element with Sugar performance removed does not leadto unintended consequences: the LTIP performance range for 201619 is shown on page 87: and following release, and the payment of any taxes due, at least 50% of any post-tax vested shares mustbe held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Shareholding requirement Shareholding target of 250% of salary for the CEO and Finance Director to be met using beneficially Proposed increase owned shares.
Conditional share awards, including deferred awards, do not count towards this limit as shown on page 84.
Shares that have vested and are subject to a holding period do count towards this limit.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 75 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS This report sets out our new remuneration policy.
Assuming that this policy is approved, it will apply from the close of the AGMon 9 December 2016.
The committee does not expect to present a revised remuneration policy to investors until the 2019 AGM.
The previous remuneration policy for executive directors applied from the date of the 2014 AGM and will continue to apply untilthe 2016 AGM.
For unvested share awards only, the provisions of the remuneration policy presented in the 2013 and 2014Remuneration reports will continue to apply until such time as all long-term incentive awards granted under those policieshave vested or lapsed.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity BASE SALARY Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following Increases will be aligned 100% CASH asignificant change in responsibilities.
Factors taken into account withthose available for include market pay movements, the level of increases awarded otherUKemployees.
Element and purpose toUK employees across the group and the impact of any increase To provide core reward for the onthe total remuneration package.
If there is a significant change role, recognising responsibility inrole scope, remuneration will be adjusted to reflect this.
for setting and delivering thestrategy.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity BENEFITS Benefits are restricted to typical UK market levels for executive The cost of benefits is not EXCLUDING RELOCATION directors and include, but are not limited to, death in service expected to exceed 10% of payment, permanent health insurance, company car plus private salary but is dependent on AND PENSION fuel, family healthcare and, where relevant, fees to maintain factors that can vary.
Element and purpose professional memberships.
To provide a competitive andcost-effective benefits package appropriate to the role.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity PENSION Defined benefit DB pension arrangements For directors entitled to benefits Element and purpose closed to new members under the DB scheme and or To provide a competitive The current executive directors are members of the Companys EFRBS, a retirement benefit retirement benefit in line with DBpension scheme.
The scheme is designed to provide retirement target of c. two-thirds of final best practice standards adopted benefits of around two-thirds of final pensionable salary at age 65 pensionable salary is payable by major companies inthe UK 62 for John Bason.
Both executive directors opted out of the atnormal retirement age.
scheme on 5 April 2006, but retain their accrued benefits.
Since Otherwise, executives may then they have earned benefits in an EFRBS.
The EFRBS is designed receive Company contributions to broadly mirror the provisions of the DB pension scheme.
or cash equivalent up to Defined contribution pension arrangements amaximum of 25% of Future executive directors, who are not already entitled to DB pension basesalary.
arrangements at the time of appointment, will benefit from a defined contribution arrangement, with a Company contribution of 25% of base salary.
Cash alternative Where a UK-based pension arrangement is not possible, or is not tax efficient, a cash supplement equivalent to the normal pension contribution may be paid in lieu of pension contributions.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity CASH SHORT-TERM Performance measures and target setting STIP cash of 150% of INCENTIVE PLAN STIP Group financial performance is assessed against prime financial basesalary.
strategic measures used across the group on a day-to-day basis Element and purpose In exceptional circumstances, todrive and monitor performance.
The personal element of the To encourage and reward such as the appointment of STIPis based on personal targets aligned to our strategic goals.
theattainment of challenging anew CEO, this could be financial targets and the The on-target performance level is set at the start of each financial increased to 200% of base achievement of personal year and is at or around the budgeted level of performance, taking salary to correct any shortfall performance objectives into account any early re-forecasts.
The committee then sets a range against market.
around the target to incentivise delivery of stretching performance.
would take into account adjustments in other elements Retrospective disclosure of targets of the package to ensure that Achievement against financial targets will be disclosed after the the total was not excessive.
endof the relevant financial year in that years Remuneration report and the performance range that applied to financial targets will be disclosed when the deferred awards vest.
Discretion, clawback and malus Please refer to the notes that follow this table.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity DEFERRED AWARDS Performance measures and target setting Shares worth 50% of base SHARES NEW Annual allocations of conditional shares vest based on performancein salary at allocation.
year one and a further service period of two years.
The performance THIS YEAR In exceptional circumstances, measures and targets are the same as for the financial element of such as the appointment of Element and purpose the cash STIP.
anew CEO, this could be To encourage and reward Vesting period increased to 100% of base theattainment of challenging Shares vest following the announcement of results three years salary to correct any shortfall financial targets.
afterthe start of the relevant STIP performance period.
Any increase To facilitate the operation would take into account Calculation of outcomes, discretion, clawback and malus ofmalus and clawback.
adjustments in other elements As for the financial element of the cash STIP.
of the package to ensure that To align the interests of Dividend equivalents the total was not excessive.
A cash or shares dividend equivalent payment will be made, To promote executive retention.
proratato the number of shares vesting, at the release date.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity LONG-TERM INCENTIVE Vesting period 200% of base salary PLAN LTIP Annual allocations of conditional shares will be free of restrictions atallocation.
after a five-year period, comprising a three-year performance NEW MECHANISM In exceptional circumstances, period and a two-year holding period for the net of taxaward.
such as the appointment of FOR TARGETS Performance measures and target setting anew CEO, this could be Element and purpose increased to 300% of base % of award Measure To reward long-term salary to correct any shortfall To be set Growth in adjusted eps.
The calculated outcome can then businessgrowth.
Any increase annually be adjusted downwards to reflect ROCEperformance would take into account To promote executive retention.
Growth in adjusted eps with the operating profit, adjustments in other elements taxand interest of Sugar removed.
The calculated To align the interests of of the package to ensure that outcome may then be adjusted downwards to reflect executives and shareholders.
the total was not excessive.
ROCE performance with the profit and average capital employed of Sugar removed At maximum, 100% of the allocated shares vest: at target These measures reflect our strategy and take into account feedback 50% vest: at threshold 10% from investors.
They are well understood both by participants and vest: and below threshold shareholders and reduce the impact of sugar price volatility on awards lapse.
Targets are set for each allocation, taking into account the shape ofthe portfolio, market expectations and internal forecasts for thenext few years, and the scale of investments made.
Dividend equivalents new this year A cash or shares dividend equivalent payment will be made, proratato the number of shares vesting, at the release date.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 77 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Operation and link to business strategy SHAREHOLDING This is not part of our formal remuneration policy.
Details of our current requirement are provided REQUIREMENT in our annual implementation report on page 84.
Element and purpose To demonstrate commitment tothe success of the Company and to align executives interests with those of shareholders we require executives to build up a significant level of shareholding.
Operation and link to business strategy NON-EXECUTIVE Non-executives DIRECTORS FEES The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees every other year in the lightof fees payable in comparable companies and by reference to the time commitment, responsibility Element and purpose and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective board.
Fees are paid in To attract and retain a cashon aquarterly basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
Non-executive directors high-calibre chairman and receive no other benefits and take no partin any discussion concerning their own fees.
non-executives by providing The Senior Independent Director and committee chairmen are each paid an additional feeto reflect acompetitive core reward their extra responsibilities and greater time commitment.
As the chair of the Remuneration committee forthe role.
and the Nomination committee is currently the Company Chairman, no fee is paid for these roles atpresent.
Chairman The Remuneration committee under the chairmanship of theSenior Independent Director reviews theChairmans fees, whichare paid monthly.
In addition to his fee, the Chairman also receives private medical insurance for himself and his spouse.
Shareholding new this year We encourage our non-executive directors to build up a shareholding of at least 100% of their annualfee.
Expenses We reimburse reasonable expenses incurred in travelling on behalfof the business.
As HMRC regardstravel to the head officeas a benefit in kind, we pay any tax due on such expenses on agrossed up basis.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
