80 Remuneration report Letter from the Remuneration Committee chairman Details of Committee meeting attendance Remuneration Committee members can be found in table 1 of the Corporate governance report page 62.
Fiona Clutterbuck 15 June 2009 to date acting chairman from 14 June 2016 For more information about the Remuneration Committee including its terms of reference visit: Allister Langlands 1 July 2015 to date Thomas Leppert 31 July 2014 to date www.
com investors Raj Rajagopal 1 March 2009 to date remuneration chairman from 8 September 2011 to 14 June 2016 Gretchen Watkins 1 June 2016 to date the backdrop of an increasingly challenging payments and LTIP and LGU vesting reflect Dear Shareholder macroeconomic enviornment.
the level of financial and operational Following my appointment as acting performance delivered by the Company.
chairman of the Remuneration Committee Bonus 2015 16 tables 10 and 11 pages from 14 June 2016, I am pleased to present 97 and 98 Shareholder dialogue and this years remuneration report.
policy review The Companys Executive Bonus Scheme EBS rewards executive directors for I am pleased that, last year, 93% My fellow Committee members and I delivery of stretching annual Group profit 2014: 91% of our shareholders voted would like to thank Raj Rajagopal, who after tax, cash conversion and key strategic in favour of our Annual remuneration remains a member of the Committee but targets.
The relative weighting of each report, which was based on the Companys has stepped down as chairman, for his target is 50%, 25% and 25% respectively.
This policy was adopted in 2012 following Management delivered the strong This years report is split into three sections: a comprehensive review which coincided financial performance as reflected in with the appointment of Uwe Krueger as 1 this letter, my annual statement, in reported profitability, which was above CEO in 2011.
Although the Committee which I summarise major decisions the challenging budget target it had been believes that, to date, our remuneration taken on, and any substantial changes set but fell short of its stretch target.
The framework has created a clear link to, remuneration during the year, Group profit after tax element of annual between the performance of the Group including the context for such decisions bonus will therefore result in a payment and strategic delivery, the creation of and changes of 62% of the maximum opportunity.
shareholder value and the remuneration Profit growth was supported by very good of our executive directors, we determined 2 Directors remuneration policy cash performance, which exceeded the it was appropriate to look again at the which sets out the Companys stretch target and resulted in the maximum Companys remuneration policy.
This proposed forward-looking policy on payout for this component of the EBS.
review was in response to the ongoing remuneration The Committee considered in detail the evolution of the Group and its strategy and excellent performance of each of the the wider industry, evolving best practice 3 Annual remuneration report executive directors against their strategic in remuneration design and our desire outlining the Companys objectives for the year, full details of which to ensure that the Companys long-term implementation of existing are contained in the Annual remuneration incentives remain appropriate for the future.
remuneration policy for the financial report page 97. year ended 31 March 2016 and a In undertaking our review the Committee statement on implementation of the Bonus payments to the executive directors also sought to ensure that our proposed proposed policy for the year ending were between 76.0% and 79.8% of their changes continue to be in line with our 31 March 2017. maximum opportunities.
These are to: I trust you will find these sections 2013 LTIP and 2012 LGU vesting comprehensive, demonstrating the clear table 13 page 100 deliver our strategy and shareholder link between directors remuneration and Underlying diluted EPS growth for the value: reward the successful delivery of delivery of our strategy.
three-year period to 31 March 2016 was our business strategy page 10 and link 23.3%.
This resulted in 48% of the remuneration with the value created for Paying for performance WS Atkins plc Long Term Incentive Plan shareholders Atkins delivered a strong performance LTIP awards granted in 2013 vesting.
The reward performance: ensure a during the year, increasing revenue by first tranche of awards made in 2012 under significant proportion of executive 6% to 1.86bn and underlying operating the terms of the WS Atkins plc Long-term directors remuneration is profit by 10.5%, achieving the Group's Growth Unit plan LGU also vested following performance-related, providing the 8% underlying operating margin target determination that the strategic measures set right balance between shortand set in 2011, and recommending an 8.2% at the time of award had been satisfied.
long-term incentives, and delivered increase in full year dividend.
As outlined in the form of Atkins shares by Allan Cook, this was achieved against The Committee is satisfied that bonus WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 81 incentivise talent: recognise that The Committee considered whether Due to the proposed changes, a new Atkins is a people business, where the revised LTIP should include a total remuneration policy will be presented to reward and incentive structures are shareholder return TSR performance shareholders for approval at the annual critical to enable us to attract, retain, metric.
Independent analysis supported general meeting AGM to be held on incentivise and reward the best the Committee's view that TSR is not an 2 August 2016.
If approved, the Committee global talent appropriate performance metric for the expects the new policy, which will replace Company.
This is partly due to the difficulty the existing policy, to remain in place for be simple and transparent: ensure in determining a robust TSR comparator the next three years.
The changes to the the policy is based on simple principles, group given the lack of suitable listed policy are summarised in table 1 page 82 provides participants with a clear line of peers.
This analysis also confirmed that EPS followed by the new remuneration policy sight to performance metrics and aligns and long-term cash conversion were the itself pages 82 to 93. executive remuneration with shareholder most appropriate performance measures interests and business results page 02 The Committee and I firmly believe that the for the Group.
pay no more than necessary: reward changes to the remuneration policy are in executive directors for delivering The quantum of the Companys the best interests of the shareholders and shareholder value and our strategy while long-term incentive opportunities has support the Companys business strategy.
ensuring that the Company pays no been unchanged since 2005.
Over I have no hesitation in recommending more than is necessary.
this period the business has grown it to you and look forward to receiving In formulating our proposals, the Committee considerably in both value and complexity.
your continued support at the AGM on also sought to address feedback from Revenue grew from 955m in 2004 05 2August 2016. some shareholders about the performance to 1,757m in 2014 15 and 100 invested Yours faithfully measures attached to the LGU.
in Atkins shares in January 2005 would have been worth 270 dividends Following our comprehensive review and reinvested as at 31 March 2016.
The consultation with the Companys major consistency in award levels over this Fiona Clutterbuck shareholders, Institutional Shareholder period reflects the Committees desire Acting chairman of the Remuneration Services ISS and the Investment not to contribute to further executive Committee Association we propose to: pay inflation.
However, the existing long-term incentive opportunities and 15 June 2016 move to a simpler structure which the value of total remuneration are now revises the existing LTIP and ceases to substantially below the appropriate level operate the LGU given Atkins scale and complexity.
This continue to link LTIP vesting to EPS poses both a retention and a recruitment growth 75% weighting in addition risk.
The Committee therefore proposes Our responsibilities include: to a new long-term cash conversion to increase the maximum LTIP opportunity setting and implementing performance metric 25% weighting, to between lower quartile and median of remuneration policy for the which together provide objective, UK-listed companies of comparable size chairman, executive directors and transparent financial performance and complexity while removing the LGU.
company secretary measures that align to the value created The Committee does not plan to make for shareholders shaping and reviewing the any other changes to the quantum of total Companys shortand long-term increase LTIP award levels 150% for remuneration, other than salary increases in incentive arrangements and setting CEO and Group finance director, 125% line with the workforce as a whole.
Overall, performance targets for Group HR director, which is offset we believe that the proposed changes by the cessation of the LGU increase transparency and simplicity and establishing and reviewing the alignment to long-term performance.
policy for remuneration on improve long-term alignment to termination to ensure the Company shareholder interests and evolving In response to the feedback we received does not reward failure best practice by introducing two-year during the shareholder consultation process post-vesting holding periods for LTIP setting the executive directors we made two key adjustments to our awards and increasing shareholding and company secretary's total original proposals.
These were to increase guidelines for executive directors remuneration package the shareholding guidelines for executive amend the cash metric for the bonus setting the chairmans annual fee directors to 200% of salary above our scheme from cash conversion to one original proposal to align the guideline to overseeing the pay and conditions based on lock-up days to differentiate the new LTIP award levels and to change throughout the Group further from the new long-term cash the cash measure for the annual bonus to selecting, appointing and setting performance measure in the LTIP and one based on lock-up days to differentiate the terms of reference for any provide clear focus on working capital it further from the LTIP cash conversion remuneration consultants that management measure page 102 and provide clear focus advise the Committee.
retain malus and clawback provisions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 82 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 30 July 2014.
A copy of the Companys existing policy can be found on our investor relations website: www.
As highlighted in the annual statement by the Remuneration Committee, the Committee reviewed executive remuneration arrangements during the year and is proposing a new remuneration policy be presented to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the AGM on 2 August 2016.
The policy, subject to receiving shareholder approval, will operate from the date of approval and is intended to remain applicable to the following three years.
The new remuneration policy has been prepared and developed: in accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code taking into account the guidelines issued by the Investment Association, ISS and other shareholder representative bodies after consultation with the Companys major shareholders, the Investment Association and ISS.
It is presented on the basis prescribed in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Comprehensive detail in respect of how the existing remuneration policy has been implemented for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 and how the new remuneration policy is intended to be implemented for the year ahead is provided in the Annual remuneration report pages 94 to 111.
Summary of changes to the remuneration policy from previous policy Following the review of executive directors remuneration during the year, changes to the remuneration policy are proposed.
Table 1 summarises the key changes when compared with the existing policy previously approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Table 1: Summary of changes to the remuneration policy Policy element Existing policy Proposed change to policy Rationale for change Long-term Executive directors granted: Revised LTIP is intended to have two performance Simplifies long-term incentive incentives conditions: structure and reflects evolving best a 75% of salary LTIP award practice in remuneration design.
which vests after three EPS 75% weighting years subject to a single EPS Supports long-term alignment cash conversion 25% weighting.
condition of executive remuneration with Award levels will be as follows: shareholders interests.
a 50% of salary LGU award CEO and Group finance director 150% of salary which vests in three equal Incentivises both longer term profit tranches on the fourth, fifth Group HR director 125% of salary.
and sixth anniversaries of A holding period will be applied after the initial the grant date, subject to Creates a more market-competitive three-year vesting period such that the combined an underpin that considered package and strengthens the vesting and holding period is at least five years.
Company's ability to retain and No LGU awards will be granted.
attract the best global executive level talent.
Malus and Malus provisions applied to With effect from 1 April 2015, clawback provisions The Committee believes it is clawback the Companys shortand were also introduced to each performance-related appropriate to have the power to long-term incentives.
remuneration element in line with requirements set withhold and clawback payments out in the Code.
These existing provisions have been in certain circumstances.
incorporated in the proposed new remuneration policy.
Shareholding Requirement to build a significant Required holding will be increased to 200% Provides greater alignment of guidelines interest in the Companys shares of basic salary.
executive directors interests with equivalent to 100% of basic salary shareholders' interests.
Encourages significant Company share ownership by executives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 83 Overview of our remuneration framework The main elements of remuneration for the executive directors are: Fixed pay: salary, pension and benefits Short-term incentives: EBS Long-term incentives: revised LTIP which, subject to shareholder approval, will replace awards currently granted under the LTIP and the LGU.
The timetable for the operation of each element is summarised in figure 1, with further information on each element provided in the policy table table 2 page 84.
Figure 1: Timeline for receipt of remuneration Element of Current year Y Y Y Y Y remuneration Y 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Salary 100% cash Benefits Cash allowance and or benefit in kind Pension Pension contribution or cash in lieu 1 Bonus cash Current year 2 3 paid in cash performance assessed Bonus 1 3 paid in shares deferred for three years Deferred 2 deferred shares shares vest 2 LTIP After three-year performance period awards vest Further two-year holding period Shares based on performance released Timeframe in which malus and clawback provisions can be applied: 1.
The Committee has the discretion to apply malus provisions up until the date the cash bonus is paid.
After this date, the Committee has the discretion to apply clawback provisions within the next two years.
The Committee has the discretion to apply malus provisions up until the date the share award vests.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 84 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Future policy for executive directors Table 2: Future policy table for executive directors FIXED PAY Implementation Remuneration Purpose and link Performance element to our strategy Operation Maximum opportunity framework 2015 16 2016 17 Base salary To provide a Paid monthly in arrears in cash.
Salary increases will normally When Executive All executive not exceed average salary determining directors directors have market-competitive Normally reviewed annually with any salary to recruit increases across the Group.
salary received the received a 1.5% increase effective from 1 April.
May be Increases above this level increases the following increase with and retain reviewed on an exceptional basis during the individuals may be made in specific Committee increases with effect from financial year with any changes effective situations, such as progression considers effect from 1 April 2016. with the skills from 1 October.
and experience and development in the Company and 1April 2015: A review does not automatically give rise to The 1.5% role, material changes individual necessary to an increase in salary.
James Cullens increase is deliver the to the business, remit or performance.
2.8% below the Benchmarked periodically against published responsibilities, and internal Companys average salary salary data for companies of similar size and Heath Drewett strategic promotion.
In any event, increase for all complexity and against bespoke comparator 2.9% any increase in salary to a objectives.
current executive director will Uwe Krueger 2.4%.
not exceed the competitive 2.9% Considered in light of economic climate, market conditions, Company performance, market range.
Each increase pay and conditions across the wider In the event of the promotion was below the workforce, geographic footprint of of an existing executive average salary operations, the individuals role, skills, and director, for example the increase for all remit, and the level of salary increases made Group finance director employees of in the rest of the business.
No recovery provisions apply to salary.
increase of the relevant executive director will not normally exceed the salary of the outgoing director holding that office.
Benefits To provide a Benefits, which are subject to regular review The Committee reserves the Not applicable Taxable benefits James Cullens market-competitive to ensure competiveness, include: power to deliver benefits to all executive and Heath remuneration which, in aggregate, have directors Drewett are an annual cash car allowance or car package in a cost a cost of 25% of salary.
principally expected to flexible benefit scheme effective way.
In certain circumstances it comprise of a receive the same life assurance entitlement ranging may be necessary to exceed car allowance types of benefits between four and seven times salary this limit, including but not and medical as provided in although this can be increased at the limited to where there are insurance 2015 16. executive's own personal cost via flexible changes in the underlying healthcare Uwe Kruegers benefit scheme in line with provisions for benefits provided to the allowance.
allowance for the wider workforce wider workforce, changes In addition, Uwe travel expenses to benefit providers and private medical insurance or an allowance Krueger receives expired on changes in individual for executive directors and their families an allowance for 13 June 2016. circumstances such as travel expenses medical assessments Uwe Kruegers relocation.
incurred other benefits income protection in the event that between his are expected to an executive is unable to work due to home and the remain similar to long-term ill health UK during the those provided personal accident cover while on business first five years in 2015 16. following his travel allowances and expense appointment.
reimbursement He also receives professional advice an allowance professional subscriptions for professional advice.
purchase sale of annual leave entitlements in line with policy for the wider workforce reimbursement of taxable expenses incurred on Company matters.
In the event of an executive being located outside the UK, additional benefits may be provided in line with local practice.
No recovery provisions apply to benefits.
Pension To provide a Monthly payments into a defined The maximum Company Not applicable All executive It is anticipated market-competitive contribution plan or cash allowance in lieu contribution is 25% of base directors that all executive remuneration of a pension contribution.
received a directors will package that cash allowance continue to No recovery provisions apply to pension.
The Committee may change enables executive equivalent to receive a cash the directors pension directors to provide 25% of salary.
allowance arrangements in response to for their retirement equivalent to new legislation or regulations in a tax-efficient 25% of salary.
provided that any changes way.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 85 VARIABLE PAY Implementation Remuneration Purpose and link Performance element to our strategy Operation Maximum opportunity framework 2015 16 2016 17 Group profit Following the Executive To incentivise An annual bonus scheme with The maximum annual bonus Annual bonus will Bonus and reward measures and performance opportunity is 125% of normally be subject after tax shareholder 50% : consultation, the Scheme EBS the delivery targets set by the Committee at base salary for the CEO and to Group financial of stretching the beginning of each financial 100% of base salary for targets 75% of total cash measure 62% of has been annual financial year.
Payout determined other executive directors.
bonus and individual maximum performance after year end following the Base salary is the average or non-financial amended from achieved cash conversion targets and Committee's assessment of salary paid to the executive strategic objectives Group cash key strategic performance relative to targets director for the bonus year.
to one based on conversion lock-up days.
The Committee has the For the financial 25% : Two thirds of the bonus is flexibility to increase the metrics, threshold Otherwise the 100% of overall maximum bonus level and budgeted Committee normally paid in cash and maximum one third is normally deferred to 150% of salary for the performance normally intends that the achieved CEO and 125% for other delivers 12.5% and 2016 17 EBS will into shares over at least three years, subject to continued executive directors, subject 50% of the maximum Personal operate on the to this not being above the opportunity objectives same basis as employment.
The deferral into shares is normally structured as a nil-cost The Committee would Individual objectives Executive share option.
Following vesting, consult with the Companys will be directly directors the option can be exercised at major shareholders in linked to strategic achieved the discretion of the participant advance of any increase in priorities which between up to the tenth anniversary of maximum bonus.
may be functional 80% 95% of grant.
maximum Assessment, where Dividend equivalents accrue on Overall: not quantifiable, is the deferred shares and may be Executive based on judgement paid in cash or shares following directors and is subject to a the vesting and exercise of the payouts were rigorous review by nil-cost share option.
between 76.0% the Committee, both Annual bonuses do not form part 79.8% of their at the time objectives of pensionable earnings and are maximum bonus are set, during the non-contractual.
opportunity financial year and at The cash payment and deferred the year end when Malus and shares are subject to both malus final performance clawback and clawback provisions in is assessed.
Any provisions certain circumstances as set out amounts due on this apply to these in the notes to the policy table.
subject to achieving Malus provisions allow the a threshold Group Committee to reduce the award financial target.
before a bonus cash payment is In assessing the made or a deferred share award vests.
formulaic outcomes of targets, the Clawback provisions allow the Committee can make Committee to reclaim some adjustments to ensure or all of the value of a bonus that any resulting cash payment or a vested share payment is fair to award within two years of a cash both the executive bonus payment being made or a directors and deferred share award vesting.
investors, including the ability to make no payment if deemed appropriate.
The Committee may reduce the amounts paid if there has been a material quality, safety or environmental failure.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 86 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued VARIABLE PAY continued Purpose and Implementation Remuneration link to our Maximum element strategy Operation opportunity Performance framework 2015 16 2016 17 Long Term To incentivise The Committee may The maximum Awards vest subject to Company In 2015 16 The proposed annual award performance and continued employment.
executive 2016 17 LTIP Incentive and reward grant an annual award Plan LTIP the creation which vests after at least limit is 200% of directors were award levels are: The intention is to use two performance salary.
granted a 75% of long-term three years, conditional measures, although the Committee James Cullens shareholder upon performance and of base salary It is normally reserves the right to revise the measures 125% of salary LTIP award and a value based continued employment.
expected that or the relative weighting where business Heath Drewett on the delivery 50% LGU award.
After the vesting period, awards will strategy or external circumstances 150% of salary of stretching an additional holding be granted requires this.
Any substanital change Full details of performance Uwe Krueger period will apply, such that to executive would be subject to shareholder the performance 150% of salary targets.
the combined vesting and directors as consultation.
The two performance conditions, holding period is at least follows: measures are: including The proposed five years.
targets, for performance CEO: 150% of i EPS growth 75% these awards targets and Awards will normally be salary Underlying diluted EPS growth is the LTIP 100% EPS: vesting granted in the form of primary metric for measuring the Group finance LGU progress percentages for nil-cost options.
Following delivery of our growth objective over director: against strategy these awards are vesting, the options can be the medium and long term.
150% of salary underpin are set set out in table exercised at the discretion ii Cash conversion 25% Group HR out in the Annual 16 page 102. of the participant up to the Long-term cash flow is a key strategic director: remuneration Malus and tenth anniversary of grant.
measure, essential for the delivery of 125% of salary.
report page 100. clawback Dividend equivalents may the Companys progressive dividend Malus and provisions will accrue and are payable in policy and to underpin growth, both clawback apply to these cash or shares following organic and through value-enhancing provisions apply awards.
the vesting and exercise of acquisitions.
Cash flow also provides to these awards.
a good performance link with the operational excellence pillar of our Awards are subject to strategy which is focused on the malus and clawback quality of earnings.
provisions in certain circumstances as set out It is expected that threshold performance in the notes to the policy will result in up to 25% vesting table.
with straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum performance.
Malus provisions allow the In determining the level of vesting, the Committee to reduce the Committee will give consideration to: award before it vests.
i the impact of any significant Clawback provisions allow acquisitions or disposals in the the Committee to reclaim performance period some or all of the value at any time within two years ii for EPS growth, the impact of inflation following the vesting of during the performance period, if it LTIP awards.
deems that this has had a significant impact on the level of challenge presented by the targets iii for cash conversion, the overall level of business performance.
In considering these factors the Committee may reduce the level of vesting.
All-employee To encourage Executive directors can Executive Not applicable.
The Company The Company share plans share ownership participate in the Share directors will be offered a SIP in will continue across the Incentive Plan SIP and a subject to the 2015 16. to offer a SIP in organisation.
Save As You Earn Plan or same maximums 2016 17.
All executive equivalent global plans to in place for directors All executive the extent that such plans all employees participated directors are operated for the wider participating in the SIP in currently workforce.
in the relevant 2015 16. participate in plan or plans.
No recovery provisions the SIP.
apply to awards granted under any of the Company's all-employee share plans.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 87 Additional notes to the future policy table Malus and clawback provisions under incentive arrangements Awards under the EBS and LTIP are subject to both malus and clawback provisions.
The malus provisions allow the Committee to reduce awards in certain circumstances including but not limited to : a material misstatement of the Companys audited results a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company a material failure of risk management by the Company serious reputational damage suffered by the Company the executive directors misconduct.
In addition, the Committee has the ability to clawback EBS and LTIP awards in the following circumstances: a material misstatement of the Companys audited results the executive directors gross misconduct.
If clawback is applied, the Committee retains the discretion to decide how clawback will be satisfied, including but not limited to : reducing the amount of any future bonus that would otherwise be payable reducing the extent to which any subsisting awards under the Atkins Deferred Share Plan, LTIP or LGU vest requiring the relevant individual to pay the amount of clawback to the Company.
Legacy arrangements under incentive plans Any awards made under legacy incentive plans prior to the approval of the Companys remuneration policy may be paid out subject to the terms of any remuneration policy in place at the time of grant, the terms of those plans as originally applied at grant or subsequently amended and the relevant performance conditions being achieved.
For the avoidance of doubt, the performance framework for LGU awards as set out in the existing remuneration policy will continue to apply until the date on which the final tranche of LGU awards granted in 2015 vests 25 June 2021.
Administrative powers under incentive plans The policy table provides a summary of the incentive plans in the form required by the Regulations.
In addition to the operational features described, the Committee retains standard administrative powers such as inviting individuals to participate and determining the structure of an award and deciding whether or not to apply malus provisions.
These powers, as set out in the rules of the plans, will continue to apply.
Selection of performance measures and target setting The Committee selects performance measures and weightings and sets targets annually to ensure continuing alignment with the strategic priorities of the Group.
Any significant departure from the normal operation of the policy would be discussed in advance with our major shareholders.
In selecting performance measures the Committee takes into account the Groups strategic objectives and shortand long-term business priorities.
The performance measures selected incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching financial performance and the creation of shareholder value.
The performance targets chosen are set in accordance with the Groups budget and strategic plan and are reviewed annually to ensure they are sufficiently stretching.
In determining the targets, the Committee also takes into account analysts forecasts, economic conditions and the Committees expectation of performance over the relevant period.
Targets and actual performance in relation to them will normally be disclosed in the Annual remuneration report provided the Committee determines that the information is not considered commercially sensitive.
In practice it is anticipated that EBS targets may remain commercially sensitive and so a full description of actual performance and the Committees performance assessment will be disclosed only at such time as the Committee considers they are no longer commercially sensitive, which will normally be in the Annual report for the year to which they are applied.
LTIP targets will be disclosed in the Annual remuneration report prior to grant if determined at that time or, if not, in the first report following grant.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 88 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Share ownership guidelines The Companys shareholding guidelines seek to strengthen further alignment of the executive directors with our shareholders.
Executive directors are expected to build up a significant interest in the Companys shares equivalent to 200% of their individual salaries.
The value of the executive directors shareholding is based on the value of the shares at the time of their acquisition or their current market value, whichever is the higher.
Shares that count towards this guideline include those held by the executive directors spouse and or dependent children plus any vested but unexercised shares awarded under a Company share plan, net of tax.
Executive directors are expected to meet the increased guideline within a five-year period from the date the remuneration policy is approved by shareholders or, if later, the date of their appointment to the Board.
The Committee may vary the length of the period within which the shareholding may be acquired.
Illustration of the sensitivity of the remuneration package to performance The following charts illustrate the packages for the executive directors, distinguishing the elements of the package that are performance related.
Three indicative levels of performance are shown: minimum, target and stretch taking into account an assumed level of vesting, as outlined in table 3.
Table 3: Minimum, target and stretch Performance level Definition Minimum Fixed pay comprising salary, benefits and pension.
No annual bonus or vesting of long-term incentives.
Target Fixed pay comprising salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus and LTIP award payable at 50% of maximum award.
Stretch Fixed pay comprising salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus and LTIP award payable at maximum level.
Salary and pension are based on levels to be implemented in the financial year ending 31 March 2017: benefits are based on the actual value level delivered in the year ended 31 March 2016.
The performance scenario charts exclude the impact of share price growth and any potential dividend accrual.
Figure 2: Executive directors' remuneration package James Cullens 000 Stretch 37% 28% 35% 1,001 Target 54% 20% 26% 684 Minimum 100% 367 Heath Drewett 000 1,374 Stretch 34% 26% 40% 921 Target 51% 20% 29% Minimum 100% 468 Uwe Krueger 000 000 Fixed pay Stretch 33% 30% 37% 2,499 Annual bonus Target 49% 23% 28% 1,657 Long-term incentives Minimum 100% 816 Other remuneration policies relating to executive directors Recruitment and appointment of executive directors The Committee determines the remuneration package for all new executive directors appointed to the Board.
Such appointees may be individuals who are already employed by the Group or from elsewhere.
In determining the appropriate remuneration package for a new executive director, the Committee will consider the calibre of the candidate, the level of their existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the candidate is recruited from and their skills and experience, data for companies of a similar size and complexity, and contextual information regarding remuneration paid to employees elsewhere in the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 89 The remuneration of a new executive director will include all elements set out in the future policy table table 2 page 84, namely salary, benefits, pension, participation in the EBS and LTIP.
Depending on the level of salary set on appointment, the Committee may make larger initial increases to move salary to the desired level during the first three years following appointment.
The maximum opportunity levels in relation to other elements of remuneration outlined in the policy table table 2 page 84 will apply.
Depending on the timing and circumstances of the appointment, the Committee may vary the weighting of objectives under the EBS in the first year that the individual serves on the Board.
For an external appointment the offer may include compensation for the forfeiture of awards from a previous employer.
In assessing the level of such a buyout award, the Committee will take into account the type of remuneration forgone, any performance targets and whether they are likely to be achieved and the timescale over which the forfeited remuneration would have been received.
In so doing the Committee will seek to ensure up to equivalence in value.
To the extent that the Committee determines that it is appropriate, such awards will be share-based with vesting subject to appropriate performance targets.
The Committee reserves the right to rely on exemption 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules to enable a buyout award to be made.
In such circumstances, any arrangement put in place will only compensate for remuneration lost and will normally take the form of performance-related variable remuneration.
For internal promotions, the Committee reserves the right to satisfy pre-existing executive incentive awards and other obligations which may be in place at the time of appointment.
Relocation of executive directors and expatriate assistance In circumstances where an executive is employed on an international assignment, their arrangements will be managed in a way that is consistent with other internationally mobile employees across the Group.
International assignment remuneration may incorporate tax equalisation so that, while on assignment, the executive director will not have to pay any more tax than they would have paid had they remained in their home location.
It is also likely to include additional allowances to reflect any cost of living and lifestyle differences between the assignees home and assignment locations and support to fund accommodation and schooling if the executive has dependants of school age.
Executive directors contracts The service agreements of executive directors who served during the year are summarised in table 4.
Table 4: Executive directors service agreements Notice period Contract Effective date Unexpired term months date of contract of contract James Cullens 12 26 February 2014 1 July 2014 Rolling contract Heath Drewett 12 17 April 2009 15 June 2009 Rolling contract Uwe Krueger 12 1 June 2011 14 June 2011 Rolling contract Copies of each directors service agreement will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
In setting its policy on notice periods, the Company takes into account market practice and the need to attract and retain the best talent.
Termination policy for executive directors In line with current market practice, the executive directors have rolling service contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice.
On the recruitment of an executive director who previously had a longer notice period commonly seen outside the UK, the Committee reserves the right to mirror the notice period initially with it reducing on a rolling basis to 12 months within two years of appointment.
No service agreement provides for predetermined amounts of compensation in the event of early termination of service contracts or a change in control.
The Committee retains its discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice which will be limited to one years base salary, benefits and pension.
The Committee also retains its discretion to make phased payments.
The service agreements include a duty for the executive director to mitigate loss and any payment in lieu of notice may be reduced to take account of such mitigation for example, if alternative employment is taken up.
There is no contractual obligation to pay an annual bonus.
Depending on the circumstances, the Committee has the discretion to make a pro rata bonus payment, linked to the original performance standards and delivered entirely in cash.
The executive directors entitlements to any bonus and unvested share awards granted in connection with the EBS or under the terms of the LTIP will be treated in accordance with the terms of the relevant plan rules, summarised in table 5 page 90.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 90 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Table 5: Executive directors entitlements to bonus and unvested share awards EBS deferred share Implementation EBS cash award award LTIP award LGU award 2015 16 Agreed Pro rata award subject to Vested and unvested Unvested awards pro-rated to Unvested award will be pro-rated No executive termination performance conditions award exercisable reflect amount of time elapsed to reflect amount of time elapsed director left e. g. retirement being satisfied.
transferable within six since the grant date.
the Companys or ill health months of leaving.
employment This pro-rated award will then This pro-rated award will then and so the The entire EBS vest on normal vesting date vest on the original vesting termination entitlement will be subject to the satisfaction of schedule subject to satisfaction policy was not paid in cash with no the performance condition s. of progress against strategy implemented deferred share award.
Exercisable transferable normally within six months of the vesting Vested award normally exercisable date although the shares within six months of leaving.
generally need to be held until the end of any holding period.
Vested awards normally exercisable transferable within six months of leaving although the shares generally need to be held until the end of any holding period.
The Committee has the discretion to remove or reduce the holding on grounds of compassion.
Vested award Vested award normally Vested award normally exercisable for gross exercisable transferable exercisable transferable within six within six months of leaving.
misconduct or within six months of months of leaving the end of any Unvested award lapses.
of fair dismissal Unvested award lapses.
Termination No entitlement if Vested award Vested award normally Vested award normally exercisable due to employment ceases prior exercisable transferable exercisable transferable within six within six months of leaving.
resignation for to the completion of the within six months of months of leaving although the Unvested award lapses.
shares must be held until the end of any holding period.
If employment ceases Unvested award lapses.
after the completion of If employment ceases the performance period after the completion of the maximum two-thirds the performance period EBS cash may be paid the one-third EBS subject to performance deferred share award conditions being will be forfeited.
Corporate Pro rata award subject to Vested and unvested Unvested award normally Unvested award normally event e. g. performance conditions awards exercisable pro-rated to reflect amount of pro-rated to reflect amount of change in being satisfied.
transferable on time elapsed between grant time elapsed between grant control corporate event.
date and change of control as date and change of control as a a proportion of the original proportion of the original vesting vesting period.
Normally exercisable transferable Normally exercisable on corporate on corporate event if performance event if progress against strategy condition has been satisfied.
Vested award normally Vested award normally exercisable exercisable transferable on on corporate event.
Any holding period will normally cease to apply.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional compensatory payments where such payments are made in good faith and following the receipt of: i the discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation ii settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Payment of the leavers reasonable legal fees is also permissible.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 91 External directorships The Board and the Committee recognise the benefit the Group can obtain if executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that each executive director may accept one non-executive directorship with another FTSE 350 company from which any fees received may be retained.
The Board also encourages executive directors to undertake pro bono appointments with charitable or professional organisations to aid their personal development and further enhance the profile of the Company.
Remuneration policy for the chairman and non-executive directors Table 6 summarises the remuneration policy for the Companys chairman and non-executive directors.
Table 6: Remuneration policy for the Companys chairman and non-executive directors Component of remuneration Fixed fees Purpose and To attract and retain high-calibre individuals by offering market-competitive fixed fees commensurate with time link to strategy commitment and responsibilities.
Operation Fees All fees are paid in cash in arrears.
The chairman is paid a basic fee which is inclusive of all committee roles undertaken.
This is normally reviewed annually by the Committee.
The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee and, if applicable, additional fees for chairmanship and membership of the Board Committees.
An additional fee may also paid be to: a director who serves as the senior independent director: and, if one were to be appointed, the deputy chairman.
These fees are normally reviewed annually by the executive directors.
Fees are benchmarked periodically against published fee data for companies of similar size and complexity and bespoke comparator groups as appropriate to ensure that fees remain market-competitive.
Any changes to fees paid are normally effective from 1 April.
A review does not automatically give rise to an increase in fees.
Reviews take into account economic climate, market conditions, Company performance, pay and conditions across the wider workforce, geographic footprint of operations, the non-executive director role, skills and remit, and the level of salary increases made in the rest of the business.
The chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for a pension, share incentives, annual bonus or any similar payments other than out of pocket expenses in connection with the performance of their duties.
No recovery provisions apply to fees.
Expenses Fees for the chairman are currently inclusive of normal travel expenses for travelling to and from the Groups London office.
However, the Committee may pay such expenses separately in the future.
Expenses are payable on all travel and subsistence payments to the non-executive directors and are grossed up where such expenses are deemed to be a taxable benefit by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC or other tax authorities.
The Company may also meet the cost of compliance with HMRCs individual reporting requirements where the director is not resident in the UK.
Opportunity Fee increases for non-executive directors will normally not exceed the average salary increases across the Group.
Increases above this level may be made in specific situations, such as a substanial growth in the size and complexity of the Group or a significant additional time commitment from non-executive directors in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
The details and reasoning behind such an exceptional increase will be disclosed in the Annual remuneration report.
In aggregate, total fees basic fees plus additional fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors shall not exceed the limit as set out in the Companys articles of association as amended by shareholder approval from time to time.
Performance When determining fee increases the performance and time commitment of the non-executive directors is considered.
Implementation 2015 16 2016 17 With effect from 1 April 2015, the average increase to the With effect from 1 April 2016, the average increase total annualised fees paid to the chairman and non-executive to the total annualised fees paid to the chairman and directors was 2.4% compared with an average salary increase non-executive directors is 2.2% compared with an for all employees of 3.3%.
average salary increase for all employees of 2.4%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 92 Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Letters of appointment The chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment stating their annual fee.
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years subject to satisfactory performance and their re-election at forthcoming AGMs.
Their appointment may be terminated with six months written notice at any time.
There are no entitlements in respect of loss of office.
All directors are subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM.
Table 7 summarises the dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors.
Table 7: Dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors Date of appointment Date of last election Expiry of Name of director as a non-executive director re-election at AGM current term Catherine Bradley 9 June 2015 29 July 2015 9 June 2018 1 Fiona Clutterbuck 13 March 2007 29 July 2015 the 2017 AGM Allan Cook 10 September 2009 29 July 2015 10 September 2018 Allister Langlands 4 September 2013 29 July 2015 4 September 2016 Thomas Leppert 1 October 2013 29 July 2015 1 October 2016 Raj Rajagopal 24 June 2008 29 July 2015 24 June 2017 2 Gretchen Watkins 1 August 2015 n a 1 August 2018 1.
Fiona Clutterbucks tenure has been extended until the 2017 AGM, subject to re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Gretchen Watkins was appointed by the Board following the 2015 AGM.
She will stand for election by the shareholders for approval at the AGM to be held on 2 August 2016.
Copies of letters of appointment for the chairman and non-executive directors will be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Recruitment of a chairman and non-executive directors When recruiting a chairman, fees will be set taking into account the calibre of the candidate, the level of existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the candidate is recruited from and the individuals skills and experience.
Any new non-executive directors will be paid in accordance with fee levels in place at the time of their appointment.
Matters considered when determining remuneration policy for directors Remuneration in the context of the wider Group The Committee does not consult formally with employees regarding executive remuneration but regularly reviews the remuneration of employees throughout the Group to ensure that it is attuned to general pay and conditions when considering the remuneration of executive directors.
For example, in determining salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee looks at salary increases across the Group.
In addition, Viewpoint, the Groups annual employee staff engagement survey, seeks employee feedback on remuneration.
The executive remuneration framework set out in this report follows similar principles to those applied to the Groups senior leadership team to ensure the senior management team is rewarded on a consistent basis.
Any differences that exist arise either because of local market practice and or the Remuneration Committees assessment of business need and commercial necessity.
The principles that underpin our executive remuneration philosophy also cascade throughout the organisation, although quantum will vary and the provision of certain components of remuneration such as benefits, allowances and long-term incentives will vary by seniority and geography.
As a people business our reward and incentive structures are critical to the success of our business.
Participation in the success of the Group, both through bonus arrangements and, for the operational and senior leadership teams, through long-term share-based awards, is a cornerstone of our remuneration framework.
The Committee also recognises the importance of having reward structures that create a sense of ownership and participation in the long-term growth of our shares.
All UK-based employees are eligible to participate in the SIP.
As many of the Companys UK-based employees are shareholders through the SIP they, like other shareholders, are able to express their views on directors remuneration at each general meeting via voting on the remuneration resolutions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 93 Consideration of shareholder views in developing policy The Committee regularly consults with shareholders including on matters relating to executive remuneration.
The Committee first contacted major shareholders, ISS, the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association and the Investment Association in January 2016 regarding its review of remuneration policy, setting out its proposed changes and requesting feedback.
Over the next few weeks a number of meetings were held with investors and the feedback received from them and ISS was used by the Committee to develop its proposals.
Two key adjustments were made to our original proposals in response to the feedback we received during the consultation process.
Our proposals included an increase to the shareholding guidelines for executive directors to reinforce their long-term alignment with our shareholders, along with the introduction of a post-vesting holding period of two years.
We originally proposed to align these guidelines with the normal maximum LTIP opportunity in line with typical market practice i. e. 150% of salary for the CEO, 150% for the Group finance director and 125% for the Group HR director.
Following engagement with shareholders these shareholding guidelines have been further increased, to 200% of salary for all executive directors.
We also set out our intention that vesting of LTIP awards would be based on EPS growth weighted 75% and average operating cash flow conversion weighted 25% over the performance period.
Operating cash flow conversion was selected as the additional performance metric for the LTIP on the basis that it is complementary to EPS and is a core performance imperative in any consulting businesses.
Strong future cash flows are also essential to the delivery of our progressive dividend policy and to underpin growth, both organic and through value-enhancing acquisitions.
This measure will be assessed in aggregate over the full three-year performance period to avoid any distortions arising from the performance in any one year.
During the consultation exercise a small number of shareholders, together with ISS, asked for clarity around the proposed LTIP cash flow measure and sought assurances that it would not reward the same performance as the cash conversion measure which has been included in the Companys annual bonus scheme since 2013.
The Committee reflected on these comments in parallel with an ongoing debate within the business about the best way to measure and reward in-year cash flow performance and concluded that it was appropriate to adjust the cash measure in the annual bonus for the year ending 31 March 2017 from a cash conversion target to one based on lock-up days.
Lock-up days is a measure of the number of days of revenue that the business has locked up in both debtors and unbilled work.
It is a key operational metric and provides strong line-of-sight for participants.
Controlling lock-up days will require the Group to drive cash receipts from clients for invoiced work and also to minimise the amount of unbilled work that it carries on its balance sheet.
We believe that this change will further enhance the differentiation between the cash performance measures in line with the comments raised.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 94 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report Table of Contents Single total figures of remuneration for 2015 16 executive directors audited 95 Implementation of remuneration policy: executive directors 96 Share awards audited 103 Relative importance of spend on pay 104 Percentage change from 2015 to 2016 in remuneration of director undertaking the role of CEO 104 CEO pay for performance comparison over the last seven years 105 Payments to past executive directors audited 105 Payments for loss of office audited 106 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited 106 Single total figures of remuneration for 2015 16 chairman and non-executive directors audited 107 Implementation of remuneration policy: non-executive directors 108 Payments to past non-executive directors audited 108 Other information 109 This section of the Remuneration report sets out the Companys remuneration of its executive and non-executive directors including the chairman during the financial year ended 31 March 2016 and will, together with the annual statement from the Committee chairman, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 2 August 2016.
It has been prepared on the basis prescribed in the Regulations and also includes the items required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Where required, data has been audited by  LLP and this is indicated where appropriate.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 95 Single total figures of remuneration for 2015 16 executive directors audited Table 8 sets out in the required form the total remuneration paid for each of our executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
James Cullens was appointed on 1 July 2014.
The remuneration for 2014 15 relates to the period for which he held office.
Alun Griffiths retired on 30 July 2014.
In accordance with the Regulations, the disclosed value in respect of Alun Griffiths LTIP awards granted on 13 August 2012, and exercised post-retirement, is reported in the payments to past executive directors section page 105.
Taxable benefits principally comprise medical insurance healthcare allowance, company car or car allowance and, in respect of Uwe Krueger, an expense allowance of 15,000 per annum.
25% of basic salary cash allowance.
Value of total bonus two thirds cash and one third shares.
Further detail on bonus payments is provided in tables 10 and 11.
The 2015 16 single figure includes values in respect of the 2013 LTIP and the first tranche of the 2012 LGU: i The EPS performance condition attached to the 2013 LTIP awards has been met in part as outlined in table 13.
The awards will vest on, and will be capable of being exercised from, 24June 2016.
The disclosed value is based on the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2016 13.7049 and includes the value of dividend equivalents which will be payable on the vesting date.
ii As outlined in table 13, the first of three equal tranches of the 2012 LGU award will fully vest on, and is capable of being exercised from, 13 August 2016.
The disclosed value is based on the difference between the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2016 13.7049 and the six-month average share price at grant 7.1869.
There is no entitlement to dividends or dividend equivalents under the terms of the LGU.
The 2015 16 single figure will be restated in the 2016 17 Annual remuneration report to reflect the value of these awards on their respective vesting dates.
This relates to LTIP awards granted in 2012 which partially vested on 13 August 2015.
The disclosed values reported in last years Annual remuneration report were, in accordance with the Regulations, based on the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2015.
These figures, as required by the Regulations, have been restated to reflect the final value of the 2012 LTIP awards based on the Companys share price at vesting 15.36.
The disclosed value includes the value of dividend equivalents payable at vesting.
Other payments generally relate to dividend equivalent payments made following the exercise of a share award during the year which had been granted in connection with a deferral of annual bonus under the terms of the Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP.
In respect of Uwe Krueger, it also includes an aggregate taxfree allowance of 39,000 for travel expenses incurred between his home and the UK during the first five years following his appointment a direct replacement for the rental allowance disclosed in 2011.
This allowance ceased on 13 June 2016.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 96 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Implementation of remuneration policy: executive directors Salary The percentage increases in salary for each executive director with effect from both 1 April 2015 and 1 April 2016 are set out in table 9 in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy.
Each percentage increase was below the average salary increase for all employees across the Group in the same year 2016: 2.4%, 2015: 3.3%.
Table 9: Executive director salaries Increase in Increase in annualised Salary from salary from Salary from salary from Name 1 April 2016 2015 16 1 April 2015 2014 15 James Cullens 281,700 1.5% 277,500 2.8% Heath Drewett 362,400 1.5% 357,000 2.9% Uwe Krueger 612,000 1.5% 603,000 2.9% Pension audited Each executive director is entitled to receive a defined contribution pension contribution or a cash allowance in lieu of a pension contribution.
All executive directors received their 2015 16 pension benefit in the form of a cash allowance of 25% of basic salary as shown in the single total remuneration figure table table 8 page 95.
The maximum Company contribution to the defined contribution pension of other UK-based staff is 10% of salary 13% of salary for those who previously received a final salary pension.
James Cullens, Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger, who were all appointed after the final salary pension scheme closed to new entrants, receive higher cash allowances reflecting their roles as executive directors.
Annual bonus: 2015 16 performance against targets audited The Committees assessment of performance in the financial year ended 31 March 2016 is shown in table 10 page 97.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 97 Table 10: Assessment of performance and bonus payout Component Overview of performance Group profit 2015 16 bonus targets Threshold Budgeted Stretch Actual after tax Group profit after tax 95.9m 106.6m 110.9m 107.6m 50% Payout level % of maximum 12.5% 50% 100% 62% For bonus purposes, the Committee believes that underlying profit after tax is a more representative measure of performance, removing certain items from the reported profit after tax that may give a distorted view of performance.
The following items have been removed from the Groups reported profit after tax to determine the underlying profit after tax figure: 2016 2015 m m Reported profit after tax 103.4 85.7 profit on sale of Woodcote Grove 6.5 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3.9 4.4 net loss profit on disposal of business 3.1 0.3 exceptional transaction costs 3.0 3.9 deferred acquisition payments 2.0 0.9 fair value adjustment on deferred acquisition consideration 1.3 impairment of goodwill 2.8 Underlying profit after tax 107.6 97.4 The adjusted result of 107.6m 2015: 96.3m, after removing the 1.1m benefit of the research and development expenditure credit RDEC following early adoption of new rules in the UK was above the challenging budgeted target resulting in a payout of 62% 2015: 98% for this element of annual bonus.
2015 16 bonus targets Threshold Budgeted Stretch Actual Cash conversion Half year cash conversion 4.5% 5.0% 11.3% 34.4% 25% Full year cash conversion 63.0% 70.0% 76.1% 78.6% Payout level % of maximum 12.5% 50% 100% 100% The cash conversion target measures operating cash flow as a percentage of budgeted profit.
The Groups cash performance was very good.
Operating cash flow was 116.5m 2015: 133.9m with half year and full year cash conversion results of 34.4% and 78.6% respectively.
This resulted in both the half year and full year stretch conversion targets 11.3% and 76.1% respectively being exceeded leading to the maximum 100% payment 2015: 100% for this element of the bonus.
Personal James Cullens objectives Payment of 80% achieved for: 25% successful delivery of an improved and consistent global recruitment programme, including a digital attraction strategy implementing succession plans for the executive directors, operational leadership team and the top 300 key roles and introducing a new internal development programme ensuring that the right senior talent was recruited into the new Advisory business team, which is now creating new revenue opportunities throughout the Group.
Heath Drewett Payment of 95% achieved for: improving commercial oversight and enhancing support for major projects, in the US and UK in particular developing and agreeing with the trustee a long-term investment strategy for the Atkins Pension Plan full engagement on Group wide merger and acquisition initiatives development of new differentiated services.
Uwe Krueger Payment of 95% achieved for: working with the Group HR director to successfully implement an executive succession plan for the top 300 key roles within the Group ensuring two strategically important acquisitions the projects, products and technology segment of EnergySolutions and Howard Humphreys were delivered successfully championing the new Advisory business team, creating new revenue opportunities for the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 98 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Annual bonuses payable to the executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 are shown in table 11.
Two thirds of the payment to current directors will be payable in cash and one third will be deferred into shares for three years via the DSP, subject to continued employment and malus and clawback provisions.
J ames Cullens was appointed to the Company on 1 July 2014.
His annual bonus for 2014 15 relates to the period for which he held office.
To ensure a like for like comparison the decrease in his annualised bonus compares the full year bonus paid to him for the year ended 31 March 2016 with an equivalent full year bonus for the year ended 31 March 2015 257,175.
Annual bonus: 2016 17 performance targets The Committee has determined that the bonus for the 2016 17 financial year will operate on similar terms to 2015 16.
50% of the bonus will be based on Group profit after tax performance, a further 25% on a cash measure and the remaining 25% on individual objectives aligned to key strategic areas for each executive director.
Following shareholder consultation in relation to the Companys long-term incentive arrangements, the Committee has changed the cash measure to one based on lock-up days.
It is a key operational metric and this change further enhances the differentiation between the EBS cash performance measure and that proposed for the new LTIP.
50% of the maximum opportunity will be paid for meeting the budgeted profit after tax and lock-up days targets and 100% for meeting the stretch targets.
The profit after tax and cash conversion targets are considered commercially sensitive so will not be disclosed in advance, although it is the Committees intention to disclose these and an assessment of performance against these targets in next years report.
Table 12 page 99 provides the headline strategic areas under which personal performance targets have been set.
The performance targets which apply to these areas are measurable, challenging and subject to rigorous review by the Committee, both at the time they are set, during the year and at the year end when performance is assessed.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we intend to provide an overview of the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying targets in next years report.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 99 Table 12: Strategic areas included in 2016 17 annual bonus Name Strategic area James Cullens deliver segmented, diverse talent through an optimised and social recruitment strategy design and deliver a Group-wide assessment programme to find and develop talent below senior executive level throughout the Company implement succession plans for non-executive directors and further development of those in place for senior executive roles develop client value propositions in order to increase business growth.
Heath Drewett negotiate with the Atkins Pension Plan trustee to secure successful agreement of the terms of the triennial pension valuation review the Groups funding position to ensure the Company is able to take advantage of potential new business opportunities develop and support US divisional finance leadership team lead the external auditor transition process.
Uwe Krueger increase new business revenue opportunities develop and support US leadership team with a focus on key accounts and strategic pursuits support succession plan development for senior executive roles support growing Advisory business ensuring that appropriate resource is available to secure new business opportunities.
LTIP and LGU outcomes in 2015 16 audited The long-term incentive values shown in the single total remuneration figure table table 8 page 95 relate to: LTIP awards granted in 2013 and for which the performance period was 1April2013 to 31March2016 the first of three equal tranches of the LGU award granted in 2012 which will vest on, and is capable of being exercised from, 13 August 2016.
The EPS performance targets and vesting levels for the LTIP awards granted in 2013 are set out in table 13 page 100.
The Committee adjusted the underlying diluted EPS as at 31March2013 as a consequence of the changes to IAS 19 to ensure that the underlying diluted EPS was measured consistently during the performance period and to facilitate a like for like comparison.
This adjustment reduced the underlying diluted EPS as at 31 March 2013 from 90.0p to 85.9p.
In determining the underlying diluted EPS as at 31 March 2016, the Committee considered those same items that could give a distorted view of performance as were considered for the purposes of bonus calculations.
In all cases its treatment was consistent with that applied in relation to the bonus.
The Groups underlying diluted EPS also includes the benefit of the new UK RDEC tax credit regime.
To ensure a consistent treatment with the underlying diluted EPS as at 31 March 2013, the Committee removed the positive impact in the year ended 31 March 2016 of the change to the new RDEC regime 1.3p.
Overall, these adjustments increased the reported diluted EPS as at 31March2016 for LTIP vesting purposes from 103.0p to 105.9p.
Accordingly, the actual vesting percentage for the LTIP awards granted in 2013 is 48%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 100 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Table 13: Vesting of 2013 LTIP awards and first tranche of 2012 LGU awards audited Target for vesting a 2013 LTIP awards EPS condition Threshold Maximum Actual 1 EPS growth 5% compound p. a.
7.2% compound p. a. EPS growth over the performance period 15.8% 40.5% 23.3% Vesting level 25% 100% 48% In determining the LTIP outcome the Committee concluded that: EPS growth over the performance period had been suitably underpinned by cash generation no significant acquisitions were completed in the performance period for which it was necessary to adjust vesting inflation during the performance period has not had a significant effect on the level of challenge presented by the targets it was not appropriate to apply malus provisions.
EPS adjusted to remove the impact of non-underlying and other one-off items and also changes due to IAS19 to enable a like for like comparison.
Estimated Value of Estimated value of dividend share price LTIP award equivalents Estimated LTIP award Vesting Vested on vesting on vesting on vesting total LTIP 1 Name granted % award date date date value Heath Drewett 25,808 48 12,387 13.7049 169,763 12,876 182,639 Uwe Krueger 43,644 48 20,949 13.7049 287,104 21,776 308,880 1.
The estimated value is based on the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2016, in accordance with theRegulations.
b 2012 LGU awards Strategic measures Overview of performance Group operating margin During the performance period, the Groups operating margin has increased from 6.5% to 8.0% in line with our strategic objectives.
Geographical split of revenue While investment, particularly from acquisitions, has focused outside the UK, the good performance of the UK itself means that it has continued to play an important part in the Groups development.
Growth Revenue from continuing businesses excluding disposals grew from 1.4bn in 2011 12 to 1.9bn in 2015 16 6.7% p. a.. Groups financial performance The Companys strong share price growth during the performance period is underpinned by significant earnings growth 9.9% p. a.. Malus provisions To the best of the Committees knowledge, there have not been any circumstances which would justify the application of the malus provisions.
The LGU is a growth plan linked to share price appreciation.
Payments are directly proportional to the share price growth achieved and the plan has no value to participants if no growth is achieved.
Estimated 1st tranche of average 2012 LGU units share price vests on on vesting LGU base Estimated 1 2 Name 13 August 2016 Vesting % Vested Units date value LGU value Heath Drewett 7,235 100 7,235 13.70492 7.1869 47,158 Uwe Krueger 12,754 100 12,754 13.70492 7.1869 83,131 1.
The estimated LGU value is the difference between the LGU base value and the estimated average share price on the vesting date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 101 LTIP, LGU and DSP awards in 2015 16 audited Executive directors were granted a LTIP award of 75% of salary.
The vesting of these awards is subject to the EPS targets described in table 14.
Table 14: LTIP performance measure for awards made in 2015 audited Atkins EPS growth % of award that vests 12% or greater per annum 100 Between 5% and 12% per annum Pro rata between 25 and 100 on a straight line basis 5% per annum 25 Below 5% per annum 0 The Committee believes that these EPS targets are appropriate and stretching in the current environment.
Performance against these targets will be measured from 1April2015 to 31March2018.
Executive directors were also granted a LGU award of 50% of salary.
The vesting of each tranche of this award is subject to the Committees assessment of the Groups progress against its strategy.
This will include: margins over the longer term geographic balance growing organically and through acquisition.
One third of annual bonuses payable to the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2015 was deferred via the DSP.
LTIP, LGU and DSP awards were all granted on 25 June 2015.
In accordance with the rules and terms of each plan, the LTIP and DSP awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, however, the LGU awards will vest on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant in three equal tranches.
LTIP, LGU and DSP awards granted during the year are set out in table 15.
T he DSP awards have been granted in the form of nil-cost options and represent the deferral of one-third of the annual bonus for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
The face value has been calculated using the middle market quotation for an Atkins ordinary share on 24June2015, the day immediately preceding the date of grant, which was 15.45.
The stated values exclude any amount attributable to dividend equivalents.
The LTIP awards have been granted in the form of nil-cost options.
The face value has been calculated using the middle market quotation for an Atkins ordinary share on 24 June 2015, the day immediately preceding the date of grant, which was 15.45.
The stated values exclude any amount attributable to dividend equivalents over the relevant performance period.
The LGU awards are granted in the form of units where the value of the LGU is dependent on sustained long-term share price growth.
The face value for the LGU awards has been calculated using the middle market quotation for an Atkins ordinary share during the six months immediately preceding the 25 June 2015 date of grant, which was 13.59585.
Given the value of the LGU is dependent on share price growth, the percentage of face value for stretch performance has been valued in a manner consistent with the guidance issued by the GC100 and the Financial Reporting Council's Financial Reporting Lab, namely assuming units are worth 33% of their initial face value.
The target performance face value is assumed to be 50% of stretch performance face value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 102 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued LTIP awards to be granted in 2016 17 Figure 3: Long-term incentive framework as determined from our remuneration principles Our remuneration principles Deliver our strategy and Pay no shareholder Simple and Reward Incentivise more than Long-term incentive value transparent performance talent necessary Performance conditions are clear, simple and strategically aligned which will drive long-term performance P P P P Aligned to shareholder interests over the long-term P Simple with emphasis on long-term performance P P Quantum of awards aligned to the market which are sufficient to retain and recruit executive talent P P At the 2016 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve a new remuneration policy and revised rules for the LTIP as outlined in the future policy table table 2 page 84.
If approved by shareholders, the Committee intends to grant LTIP awards of 150% of salary to both Uwe Krueger and Heath Drewett and 125% of salary to James Cullens.
The vesting of awards granted under the terms of the LTIP will be determined by two performance measures as set out in table 16.
Table 16: LTIP performance measures for awards made in 2016 EPS growth Operating cash flow conversion 75% weighting 25% weighting % of award that vests 12% or greater per annum 98% or more 100 Between 5% and 12% per annum Between 83% and 98% Pro rata between 25 and 100 on a straight line basis 5% per annum 83% 25 Below 5% per annum Below 83% 0 EPS growth: Underlying diluted EPS is the primary metric for measuring and rewarding the delivery of our growth agenda over the medium to long term.
The underlying diluted EPS for the year ended 31 March 2016 was 107.3p.
Cash conversion: Cash flow is a key strategic measure which is essential to deliver the Companys progressive dividend policy and to underpin growth, both organic and through value-enhancing acquisitions.
Cash flow also offers a good performance link with the operational excellence pillar of our strategy which is focused on the quality of earnings.
Both malus and clawback provisions will be applied to the new LTIP as set out in the remuneration policy page 87.
The Committee believes that these performance targets are appropriate and stretching in the current environment.
Performance against these targets will be measured from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019 and, in determining the level of vesting, the Committee will give consideration to: the impact of any significant acquisitons or disposals in the performance period for EPS growth, the impact of inflation during the performance period if it deems that this has had a significant impact on the level of challenge presented by the targets for cash conversion, the overall level of business performance.
In considering these factors, the Committee may reduce the level of vesting.
All employee share plans All executive directors currently participate in the SIP.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 103 Share awards audited Tables 17 and 18 page 104 set out details of the executive directors interests in relation to share awards made under each of the Companys share plans.
T he awards granted under the terms of the LTIP and DSP are structured as options for which the exercise price is nil.
Subject to performance criteria described in note 33 to the Financial Statements page 185.
The 2012 LTIP award, which was subject to an earnings per share EPS condition, partially vested 70%, as disclosed in last year's Annual Report.
LTIP and DSP share awards are normally granted in June July each year.
However, it was not possible to grant share awards in June July 2014 due to the Company being in a prohibited period at that time.
When the awards were granted on 17 November 2014, the Committee agreed that, in accordance with the rules and terms of the share plans, the vesting date would be on 26 June 2017, which would have been the scheduled vesting date had it been possible to make the awards as originally intended.
Awards granted under the terms of the LGU.
The awards granted under the terms of the LGU are structured as units and are subject to a strategic underpin as described in note 33 to the Financial Statements page 185.
Relative importance of spend on pay Table 19 sets out total employee costs and distributions to shareholders for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31March2016.
Table 19: Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 16 2014 15 m m % change 1 Total employee costs including directors 1,095.3 940.8 16.42 2 Distributions to shareholders 36.2 33.4 8.38 1.
Total employee benefit costs represents amounts included in note 6 to the Financial Statements page 142.
The increase relates principally to exchange rate fluctuations and employee costs following acquisitions.
Distributions to shareholders include the total dividends paid in respect of each financial year.
Percentage change from 2015 to 2016 in remuneration of director undertaking the role of CEO Table 20 shows the change in remuneration, from 2015 to 2016, of the CEO and a comparator group consisting of all UK employees.
Table 20: Change in CEOs remuneration compared to UK employees % change in % change in % change in salary taxable benefits annual bonus 2 CEO 1.49% 36.45 % 14.96 % 1 Comparator group: UK employees 3.39% 10.91% 1.37 % 1.
T he comparator group consists of all UK-based employees within the Atkins Group excluding the CEO.
This comparator group has been chosen for the purpose of this comparison as the CEO is employed in the UK.
The reason for the significant reduction in the CEOs taxable benefits is that taxable benefits received in the year ended 31 March 2015 included the settlement of professional fees incurred in prior years following the receipt of invoices during the year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 105 CEO pay for performance comparison over the last seven years Figure 4 provides a comparison of the Companys total shareholder return TSR with that of the FTSE 250 Index, based on an initial investment of 100 over the seven-year period ended 31 March 2016.
This index is currently considered to be the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company has been a member of the FTSE 250 for the whole of the seven-year period.
Figure 4: Total shareholder return 400 Atkins Total return FTSE 250 Total return 300 200 100 Source: Datastream 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Table 21 summarises the total remuneration for the CEO over the same seven-year period, as well as showing the outcomes of shortand long-term incentive plans as a percentage of maximum.
Keith Clarke KEFC retired from the Company on 31 July 2011 and Uwe Krueger UK was appointed to the Company on 14 June 2011.
Total remuneration single figure for 2014 15 includes 709,198 in respect of the 2012 LTIP award.
The disclosed value reported in last years Annual remuneration report was, in accordance with the Regulations, based on the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2015.
This figure, as required by the Regulations, has been updated to reflect the final value of the 2012 LTIP award based on the Companys share price at vesting and includes the value of dividend equivalents paid on the vesting date 44,264.
Total remuneration single figure for 2015 16 includes 308,880 in respect of the 2013 LTIP award and 83,131 in respect of the first tranche of the 2012 LGU award: i The LTIP award vests on, and will be capable of being exercised from, 24 June 2016.
The disclosed value is based on the average mid-market quotation of the Companys shares for the three months ended 31 March 2016 and includes the value of dividend equivalents which will be payable on the vesting date 21,776.
The final value of the 2013 LTIP award will be calculated on the basis of the Companys share price at vesting.
ii The first of three equal tranches of the 2012 LGU award vests on, and will be capable of being exercised from, 13 August 2016.
The final value for the first tranche of the 2012 LGU award will be calculated on the difference between the six-month average share price at vesting and at grant.
Payments to past executive directors audited Alun Griffiths, who retired as a director on 30 July 2014, retained pro rata entitlements to share awards granted under both the LTIP and the LGU, subject to performance.
Under the LTIP, in accordance with the plan rules, 11,698 shares vested on 13 August 2015 with a disclosed value of 191,642.
This has been calculated based on the share price at vesting, in accordance with the Regulations.
The disclosed value also includes the value of dividend equivalents payable on the vesting date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 106 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Payments for loss of office audited There were no payments for loss of office made during the year.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited Share ownership guidelines In accordance with the existing remuneration policy, executive directors are ordinarily expected to build up an interest in the Companys shares equivalent to 100% of basic salary within a five-year period.
Heath Drewett and Uwe Krueger exceed the Companys current 100% of basic salary share ownership target.
James Cullens, who was appointed on 1 July 2014, is expected to satisfy the salary share ownership target within five years of his appointment.
There are no shareholding requirements for the chairman or the non-executive directors.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company as at 31March2016 are shown in tables 22 and 23.
Directors interests in shares of the Company audited Table 22: Executive directors interests in shares of the Company Share ownership guideline requirement as a As a As a As a percentage of At 15 June percentage of At 31 March percentage of At 31 March percentage of 3 2 2 2 salary 2016 salary 2016 salary 2015 salary 1 James Cullens 100% 139 0.7% 105 0.6% 0% Heath Drewett 100% 54,850 212.5% 54,816 222.4% 35,858 136.7% Uwe Krueger 100% 51,155 133.1% 51,120 135.1% 59,627 132.1% Total 106,144 106,041 95,485 1.
Based on the value of such shares at the time of their acquisition or market value at the stated date, whichever is higher.
Changes in interests for all the executive directors between 31 March 2016 and 15 June 2016 relate to shares acquired through their participation in the SIP.
Subject to approval by shareholders of the new remuneration policy at the AGM to be held on 2 August 2016, the shareholding ownership guideline requirement will increase to 200% of basic salary.
This is expected to be achieved within five years following shareholder approval.
Table 23: Chairman and non-executive directors interests in shares of the Company At 15 June At 31 March At 31 March 2016 2016 2015 1 Catherine Bradley n a Fiona Clutterbuck 4,146 4,146 4,146 Allan Cook 21,442 21,442 17,142 Allister Langlands 5,000 5,000 5,000 Thomas Leppert 2,676 2,676 Raj Rajagopal 5,000 5,000 5,000 2 Gretchen Watkins n a Total 38,264 38,264 31,288 1.
Catherine Bradley was appointed on 9 June 2015.
Gretchen Watkins was appointed on 1 August 2015.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 107 Single total figures of remuneration for 2015 16 chairman and non-executive directors audited Table 24 sets out in the required form the total remuneration earned by our chairman and non-executive directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
This remuneration relates to the period for which she held office.
Rodney Slater retired from the Board on 30 July 2014.
This remuneration relates to the period for which he held office.
Includes business expenses chargeable to income tax.
The total amount of fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors was 497.0k 2015: 429.0k which is within the limit of 600k per annum set in the Companys articles of association, which have been previously approved by shareholders.
A resolution will be considered at the AGM to be held on 2 August 2016 proposing the limit for the fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors be increased to 750k per annum.
The current limit has been in place since 2008 and, although it is anticipated that the fees paid in 2016 17, as show in table 25 page 108, will be below the current limit, it is important to retain sufficient flexibility for the future.
The actual fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors, which are expected to be well below the new limit for the foreseeable future, will be disclosed in the Annual remuneration report, which is subject to an annual shareholder advisory vote.
The basic annual fee for the Chairman is inclusive of all committee roles he undertakes.
Fiona Clutterbucks basic annual fee includes an additional fee of 5,650 2015 16: 5,500 to reflect the additional responsibilities of her role as senior independent director.
Based on committee membership as at 15 June 2015.
No fee is paid in respect of chairmanship or membership of the Nomination Committee.
The average increase to the total annualised fees paid to the chairman and non-executive directors with effect from 1April2016 is 2.2% compared with the 2.4% average salary increase for all employees across the Group.
The non-executive directors fees includes a 5% increase in the committee membership fees, which is the first since 1 April 2012.
Payments to past non-executive directors audited Lord Boyce retired from the Board on 31 July 2013.
Both continue to provide consultancy services to the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 109 Other Information The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
com investors remuneration or on request from the company secretary.
The Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration policy and structure for the Companys chairman and executive directors.
The Committee also has oversight of remuneration practices across the Group.
Committee activities The Committee uses a schedule of standing items to help structure the agendas for its meetings as well as responding to matters which arise during the course of the year, such as regulatory changes.
The Committees standing agenda items are aligned to the Groups reward communication programme.
Each April employees receive confirmation of their remuneration for the year ahead.
Notification of bonus payments follows the announcement of the Groups financial results in June.
The Committee keeps remuneration policy and market practice under review throughout the year.
The key matters discussed during the year are set out in table 26.
Table 26: Key matters discussed during the year Theme Agenda items Best practice Consideration of latest remuneration best practice guidance Review of the Committees remuneration advisor and fees concluding with the subsequent appointment of Mercer Introduction of clawback policy for annual bonus, LTIP and LGU awards, in line with Code requirements Directors and Consideration and approval of bonus scheme payments to the executive directors for 2014 15 company secretarys Interim review of executive directors performance against personal performance targets for 2015 16 remuneration Consideration of EBS structure and financial targets for 2016 17 Consideration and approval of executive directors' personal performance targets for 2016 17 bonus Consideration and approval of remuneration, bonus principles and quantum for the executive directors and company secretary for 2016 17 Consideration of LTIP performance conditions, including performance targets, for awards to be granted in 2016 17 Consideration and approval of the chairmans fee for 2016 17 Employee Consideration of remuneration practice for Group employees remuneration Review of bonus scheme payments to the senior leadership team for 2014 15 including senior management Consideration of 2015 16 cash conversion targets for senior management under the EBS Review of remuneration, bonus principles and quantum for the senior leadership team for 2016 17 Share plans Consideration of proposed revised LTIP subject to shareholder approval at 2016 AGM Consideration and approval of performance condition outturn in respect of LTIP awards granted during 2012 Consideration and approval of adjustments made to ensure that the EPS performance condition is measured on the same accounting basis during the respective performance period for LTIP awards Consideration and approval of 2015 share plan awards Review of share plan hedging arrangements and dilution Performance monitoring of LTIP awards Approval of non-material share plan administration and rule changes Reporting Annual review of executive directors shareholdings and expenses for 2014 15 Annual review of the chairmans expenses for 2014 15 Consideration and approval of the remuneration report for 2014 15 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 110 Remuneration report Annual remuneration report continued Committee membership The Committee met five times during the year 2015: five.
The independent non-executive directors who served on the Committee during the year and their attendance at meetings is shown in the Corporate governance report page 62.
Gretchen Watkins joined the Committee on 1 June 2016.
Fiona Clutterbuck became acting chairman on 14 June 2016, succeeding Raj Rajagopal.
Committee meetings are attended by the Group HR director.
The chairman of the Board, the CEO and the Group reward director also attend meetings at the discretion of the Committee chairman.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No director or other attendee, including the company secretary, participates in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Advisors to the Committee During the year, the Committee was supported by Mercer Limited Mercer which is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
In addition, the Committee received advice from both Ashurst and Tapestry on legal matters.
Table 27 provides a summary of advice received from each advisor to the Committee, fees paid and any other services provided by the advisor to the Group.
Following a competitive review and selection process, the Committee appointed Mercer to replace Towers Watson Limited as its advisor during the year.
Mercer's acquisition of Kepler Associates has provided increased experience of FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 remuneration committee advisory work which the Committee can draw upon.
Each year the Committee assesses the advice it has received and is satisfied that the advice received during the year has been objective and independent.
Table 27: Advisors to the Committee Advisor Services provided Fees Fee basis Other services provided to the Group Mercer Advice on remuneration policy and 55,645 Both fixed fee Supporting management, with the approval of the structure including independent advice and time plus Committee, on matters relating to: on proposed LTIP and performance expenses basis remuneration and benefits for senior management conditions and the wider workforce talent management below executive director level.
Ashurst Legal services, principally assisting 1,660 Time plus Ashurst is one of a number of legal firms that provide with the drafting of last years expenses legal advice and services to the Company on a range of Remuneration report matters.
Tapestry Legal services, principally the drafting 2,766 Time plus Tapestry provides legal advice in relation to our of the clawback provisions for the EBS, expenses share plans.
LTIP and LGU The Committee also consulted the chairman of the Board, the CEO, the Group HR director, the company secretary and the Group reward director regarding remuneration policy.
Dilution DSP share awards can only be satisfied using market purchase shares held in the employee benefit trust EBT.
LTIP and LGU share awards can be satisfied using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or market purchase shares held in the EBT.
The Committee reviews the hedging and dilution position of the Company at least bi-annually prior to making grants of share awards.
In line with best practice, the Committee ensures that the number of new ordinary shares issued in any 10-year period does not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital under all the Companys share plans and does not exceed 5% under the LTIP, the LGU and any other executive share plan of the Company executive schemes.
Using an approximation of one unit to one share, at this date the EBT held shares to satisfy 68% 2015: 62% of all outstanding awards.
In addition, as at 31 March 2015, 213,461shares 2015: 213,461 were held in a separate EBT which are available to satisfy future awards granted under an all-employee share plan arrangement.
No new issue shares have been used to satisfy share awards since 2005 and, to date, no treasury shares have been used.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Remuneration report 111 Outside appointments for executive directors Uwe Krueger is currently a non-executive director of the companies listed in table 28 and retains the fees payable, as outlined in respect of these appointments.
Table 28: Non-executive remuneration for executive directors Executive director Organisation name Remuneration basis Uwe Krueger Aggreko plc UK 61,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2015 ONTEX S. A. Zele, Belgium 75,000 per annum SUSI Partners AG Zurich, Switzerland 30,000 of which 10,000 is paid in cash and 20,000 in share options Shareholder voting and engagement The voting results for last years Annual remuneration report and the results of the binding vote for the remuneration policy from the 2014 AGM are set out in table 29.
Table 29: Shareholder voting results Votes Votes Votes Total votes withheld Resolution for m % for against m % against cast m m 2015 AGM Approval of the annual remuneration report 62.05 92.89 4.75 7.11 66.80 0.02 2014 AGM Approval of the remuneration policy 59.96 89.45 7.07 10.55 67.03 0.49 The Committee and Board were pleased to see an increase in support for the Annual remuneration report in 2015.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Fiona Clutterbuck Acting chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 June 2016 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
