Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the report of the Remuneration Committee the Committee in respect of the year ended 27 March 2016, the Companys first full financial year as a listed company.
Objectives of the remuneration policy and link to strategy Jill Easterbrook The policy approved by shareholders in September 2015 has the Chairman of following aims: the Remuneration to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management and Committee structured so as to focus on the delivery of the Companys strategic and business objectives in order to promote its long-term success: Composed of three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
the targets for performance related pay closely linked to the At least two meetings held per year.
Companys main strategic objectives: Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive and other relevant attendees by invitation no person is present during to be simple in design, transparent and understandable both to any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
participants and shareholders: For more information on the Committees terms of reference to achieve a degree of consistency in terms of approach across the visit about-us.
senior management population to the extent appropriate: Four meetings were held during the year: base pay to be set having had due regard to appropriate midmarket benchmarks with incentive pay structured so as to provide Meetings attended Percentage of the opportunity to earn above mid-market benchmarks for the Total meetings held meetings attended delivery of challenging performance targets: and Current members to promote an ownership culture, via the encouragement of Jill Easterbrook Chairman 2 2 100% widespread equity ownership across the workforce.
joined 1 July 2015 David Keens 3 3 100% During the year it has proved effective in both retaining and motivating joined 1 May 2015 our executive team.
The policy supports our strategy through using Jeni Mundy 1 1 100% performance targets for our variable pay schemes that target joined 1 March 2016 improvements in our key performance indicators i. e. Underlying Previous members operating profit, audience share, new product initiatives and total Ed Williams 2 2 100% shareholder returns.
As a consequence no changes are proposed left 1 July 2015 to our policy, or its application, for the current financial year.
Victor Chip Perry 3 3 100% left 7 March 2016 The work of the Committee during the year As reported last year, the Remuneration Committee carried out considerable work prior to Admission in order to develop our new remuneration policy.
As a result, this year has been focused on the implementation of the approved policy for our first full year.
The key activities of the Committee are detailed in the table below.
Our activities in 2016 Our 2017 priorities Confirming the performance targets to apply to the 2016 Confirming targets for and granting the 2017 PSP awards.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards and granting the awards.
Considering the ongoing appropriateness of the structure Considering the executive pay environment and confirming the and design of the existing long-term incentive plans.
current remuneration policy remains appropriate for 2017.
Continuing to monitor the executive pay environment and Reviewing the choice of performance metrics for 2017 variable considering the ongoing appropriateness of the existing policy.
Consideration of the approach to equity participation across the workforce including design of first Company-wide share schemes SIP and SAYE.
Considering the impact of changes to pension tax rules.
Considering the approach to reporting on the current financial year.
60 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Performance and reward in 2016 Approach for 2017 Our first full year as a listed company has been very successful.
The Committee will continue to operate within the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in September 2015.
The key We achieved year-on-year revenue growth of 10% to 281.6m highlights of how we intend to apply this for 2016 17 are: 2015:255.9m with growth across all of our revenue streams.
with effect from 1 April 2016, the salaries of the Executive Underlying operating profit increased by 19% to 171.3m 2015:144.1m Directors were increased by 2% which is below the average with Underlying operating profit margin improving by 5 percentage increase across the wider workforce: points to 61% 2015: 56%.
Operating cash flows from continuing the annual bonus plan will operate similarly to last year, with 75% operations were 30% higher at 177.0m, a conversion rate of 97%, being based on Underlying operating profit performance and the allowing 147.0m of debt to be repaid during the year.
Overall, the remaining 25% being based on strategic metrics: and results were our best ever.
awards will be made in July 2016 under the PSP at 200% of salary for Trevor Mather and 150% for Sean Glithero.
Awards will also In terms of non-financial performance we continued to achieve our be made to other senior colleagues at this time.
The objective of being the market leader in what we do measured based performance conditions applying to these awards will continue on our audience share using customer minutes on our site versus our to be based on the Companys Cumulative Underlying operating competitor set and successfully executed our strategy of growing the profit relevant to 75% of awards and Total Shareholder Return number of Managing Pillar products.
TSR relevant to 25% of awards.
The level of performance achieved resulted in the maximum bonus Feedback from shareholders targets set at the start of the year being exceeded both for financial The Remuneration Committee is committed to ensuring that we are and non-financial targets.
Further information on the actual targets responsive to developments in best practice, and will proactively consider set, and our performance against them is provided on page 63. the implementation of our policy in the light of this.
Should you have any feedback in this regard, I shall be available at the AGM to answer Since the first awards granted under the Companys Performance Share any specific questions that you may have.
Plan took place in June 2015, there were no outstanding awards eligible to vest in respect of long-term performance in the year under review.
I hope that you will be supportive of the AGM resolution to approve our Annual Report on Remuneration.
Jill Easterbrook Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 June 2016 This report sets out details of the remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes how the remuneration policy is implemented and discloses the amounts paid in the year ended 27 March 2016.
This Remuneration Report is in three parts.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee sets out an overview of the year just ended.
This is followed by the Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 62 to 69, which provides greater detail on the amounts paid and the implementation of the policy in 2016 and also includes a high level summary of how the remuneration policy is intended to be implemented in the 2017 financial year.
Finally, as an Appendix, a summary version of the remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 17 September 2015, is set out on pages 70 to 73.
The full policy can be viewed on our website at about-us.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman, together with the Annual Report on Remuneration, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 22 September 2016.
61 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Single figure of remuneration for the year ended 27 March 2016 Audited The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company in the year ended 27 March 2016.
Long-term 1 2 3 000 Salary & fees Benefits Annual bonus incentives Pension Total Executive Trevor Mather 525 1 787 26 1,339 Sean Glithero 290 1 377 14 682 Non-Executive Ed Williams 170 170 4 David Keens 65 65 5 Jill Easterbrook 46 46 6 Jeni Mundy 4 4 7 Victor A. Perry III 49 49 7,8 Tom Hall 7,8 Nick Hartman The following table shows the aggregate emoluments from the date of Admission to 29 March 2015.
Long-term 1 2 3 000 Salary & fees Benefits Annual bonus incentives Pension Total Executive Trevor Mather 9 10 1 20 Sean Glithero 5 2 7 Non-Executive Ed Williams 2 2 Victor A. Perry III 1 1 8 Tom Hall 8 Nick Hartman 1 Benefits include: private healthcare, life assurance and income protection insurance.
2 There were no long-term incentives eligible to vest in the year under review.
3 Employers pension contributions of 5% of salary were paid in respect of Executive Directors.
No Directors have a beneficial interest in a defined benefit scheme.
8 Waived entitlement to receive a fee.
62 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual bonus for the year ended 27 March 2016 Level of audience share 12.5% of total bonus The targets applying to the annual bonus for the year ended 27 March Audience share targets were set based on the number of months in 2016 were as follows: the year under review that the Companys audience share based on the share of minutes amongst car buyers using car portals was in excess of 80% representing the Companys targeted level.
Underlying operating profit 12.5 Level of audience share Penetration of Managing Pillar products Targets were set as follows, with a graduated scale operating between 12.5 the threshold and stretch requirements: Number of months where average audience share of minutes is 75 more than 80% for that month Pay-out of audience share element Threshold requirement: Less than 6 months 0% of the 12.5% Stretch requirement: The bonus targets for the financial year, as set by the Committee at 10 months or above 100% of the 12.5% the start of the year, together with performance against these, and Actual achieved: 12 out of resulting pay-outs are set out in detail below.
12 months more than 80% 100% Underlying operating profit 75% of total bonus The level of market share was verified by comScore MMX.
Required actual Percentage payout Level of achievement result m under that element Penetration of Managing Pillar products 12.5% of total bonus Threshold requirement 156m 20% This part of the bonus related to the number of retailer forecourts Target requirement 164m 50% adopting Managing Pillar products.
Stretch requirement 169m 100% Actual achieved 171.3m 100% Targets were set as follows, with a graduated scale operating between the threshold and stretch requirements: Number of retailer forecourts introducing Managing Pillar Pay-out of Managing Pillar element Threshold requirement: Less than 1,250 0% of the 12.5% Stretch requirement: 1,751 or more 100% of the 12.5% Actual achieved over 1,900 100% In light of the Companys record performance during the year under review, the Committee was comfortable with the overall level of annual bonus pay-out.
Half of the bonus earned will be payable in shares, deferred for two years under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP.
The deferred shares will vest subject to continued employment, but there are no further performance targets.
63 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Performance Share Plan Audited The first awards under the PSP were granted as Nil Cost options on 19 June 2015 and will normally be eligible to vest in three years from grant based on performance over the three years to 31 March 2018 and continuous employment.
The awards were as follows: % award Face maximum vesting at Number of PSP Multiple of value of awards threshold Performance 1 2 Executive Director shares awarded salary at grant date % maximum period Trevor Mather 446,808 200% 1,050,000 25% Concludes Sean Glithero 185,106 150% 435,000 25% 31 March 2018 1 F ace value maximum was calculated based on the Offer Price of 2.35 in connection with the Companys Admission to the Official List as detailed in the Companys Admission Prospectus.
2 T he performance period for the Cumulative Underlying operating profit target runs for three years from 1 April 2015, with the performance period for the TSR target running from the Admission date to 31March 2018.
The performance conditions applying to the 2015 PSP awards were summarised in the Admission Prospectus and last years Directors remuneration report and are set out below.
Each element will be assessed independently of the other: Metric Percentage of total PSP awards Cumulative Underlying operating profit 75% Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% Cumulative Underlying operating profit Cumulative Underlying operating profit is defined as the sum of the Groups Underlying operating profit result over the three consecutive financial years ending on 31 March 2018.
The actual range of Cumulative Underlying operating profit targets for the three years ended 31 March 2018 that are applicable to the awards are as follows: Cumulative Underlying operating profit Proportion of awards subject performance achieved to Cumulative Underlying operating profit that vest Below 510m 0% Equal to 510m threshold target 25% Equal to or above 550m stretch target 100% Pro-rata between the threshold and stretch performance targets Relative Total Shareholder Return Performance is measured for three years from Admission and the Companys TSR performance is measured from the Offer Price as detailed in Admission Prospectus.
The TSR of the Company will be compared to that of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts over the performance period, and will vest according to the following schedule: TSR performance relative to the FTSE Proportion of awards 250 Index excluding investment trusts subject to TSR that vest Below Index TSR 0% Equal to Index TSR threshold target 25% Equal to Index TSR plus 25% or above stretch target 100% Pro-rata between the threshold and stretch performance targets 64 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts of which the Company is a constituent, from the start of conditional share dealing on 18 March 2015.
The graph shows performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
Total shareholder return 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 18 March 2015 27 March 2016 Auto Trader Group plc FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters.
CEO remuneration The table below sets out the Chief Executives single figure of total remuneration together with the percentage of maximum annual bonus awarded over the same period.
1 2016 2015 CEO total remuneration 000 1.339 20 Annual bonus 2 % of maximum 100% n a 3 3 Share award vesting % of maximum n a n a 1 From the date of Admission in March 2015.
2 Private Company when bonus plan implemented in 2015.
3 No awards were eligible to vest in respect of long-term performance ending in 2015 or 2016.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive The table shows the average increase in each component between the Chief Executive and the average employee in the Company from 2015 to 2016.
Change in remuneration levels: Chief Average Component Executive employee 1 Salary 0% 3% Benefits 0% -7% 2 Bonus n a 47% 1 T he Chief Executives salary was set at Admission in March 2015 and has remained unchanged throughout 2016.
Refer to page 66 for the salary increase effective 1 April 2016.
Relative importance on the spend on pay The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for all employees compared to distributions to shareholders.
The average number of employees has also been included for context.
Revenue and Underlying operating profit have also been disclosed as these are two key measures of Group performance.
2016 2015 m m % change Employee costs see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements 51.1 50.3 1.6% Average number of employees see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements 854 898 4.9% Revenue see Consolidated income statement on page 84 281.6 255.9 10.0% Underlying operating profit see page 30 for definition and reconciliation 171.3 144.1 18.9% Dividends paid and proposed see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements 15.0 n a 65 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Total shareholder return rebased Directors remuneration report continued Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2017 This section sets out how the Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy in the year ending 31 March 2017.
Base salary The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed in early 2016 with the changes becoming effective from 1 April 2016, and will next be reviewed in early 2017, with any changes becoming effective from 1 April 2017.
The following table sets out the new salaries effective 1 April 2016 financial year 2017 compared to those which applied in financial year 2016: Percentage 2017 2016 change Trevor Mather 535,500 525,000 2% Sean Glithero 295,800 290,000 2% For context, the increase in the salary budget for 2017 for the overall employee group was set at 4% inclusive of merit and promotional increases.
Pension and benefits Executive Directors will continue to receive a pension contribution at the rate of 5% of base salary, payable into the Company pension scheme or as a cash alternative.
Ancillary benefits are provided in the form of private medical cover, life assurance and income protection insurance.
Annual bonus As described in the Policy Report, Trevor Mathers maximum bonus opportunity is capped at 150% of base salary whilst Sean Glitheros is capped at 130% of base salary.
Half of any bonus earned will be payable in shares, deferred for two years under the DABP.
The metrics and their weightings for the year ending 31 March 2017 are: Metric Percentage of total bonus Underlying operating profit 75% Strategic objectives 25% In relation to the financial target, a challenging graduated scale will operate set around the 2017 business plan.
For achievement of the threshold target, 20% of this part of the bonus opportunity becomes payable with the maximum becoming payable for outperforming the 2017 business plan.
The strategic targets relate to two key performance objectives for 2017.
These are, as per 2016, the level of audience share we achieve versus our competitors during the year which will determine up to 12.5% of the total bonus opportunity and new product initiatives the adoption of Managing Pillar products in the current financial year which will also determine up to 12.5% of the total bonus opportunity.
A financial underpin will apply to the strategic targets, such that no bonus will be payable if Underlying operating profit does not exceed the 171.3m achieved in 2016.
The specific targets themselves are commercially sensitive, but the Committee intends to disclose them in the next Annual Report on Remuneration provided they are no longer considered to be commercially sensitive at that time.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Committees policy is to award Executive Directors annual PSP awards.
The Committee intends to grant awards in the current financial year to Trevor Mather and Sean Glithero, at a level of 200% of salary and 150% of salary respectively.
The performance metrics and their weightings for the award remain unchanged and are set out below: Metric Percentage of total PSP awards Cumulative Underlying operating profit 75% Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% Each element will be assessed independently of the other as detailed opposite.
66 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cumulative Underlying operating profit Cumulative Underlying operating profit will be defined as the sum of the Groups Underlying operating profit result over the three consecutive financial years ending on 31 March 2019.
The Committee considered a number of factors when setting the range of targets including internal planning, market expectations for the future performance of the Company and market practice in terms of target setting across the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index.
The actual range of targets is commercially sensitive, but the Committee intends to disclose them in the next Annual Report on Remuneration provided they are no longer considered to be commercially sensitive at that time.
The awards will vest according to the following schedule: Proportion of awards subject to Cumulative Underlying operating profit performance achieved Cumulative Underlying operating profit that vest Below threshold 0% Equal to threshold 25% Stretch or above 100% Pro-rata between the threshold and stretch performance targets Relative TSR The performance condition applying to one quarter of PSP awards will be based on TSR performance over the three financial years ending 31 March 2019.
The TSR of the Company will be compared to that of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the performance period, and will vest according to the following schedule: TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts Proportion of awards subject to TSR that vest Below Index TSR 0% Equal to Index TSR threshold target 25% Equal to Index TSR plus 25% or above stretch target 100% Pro-rata between threshold and stretch performance targets Consistent with market practice, a three month averaging period will normally apply for the purposes of calculating the start and end values for the purposes of measuring TSR.
Executive Directors will ordinarily be required to retain their net of tax number of vested shares delivered under the PSP for at least two years from the point of vesting.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The fee structure and levels were set on Admission.
The fees were reviewed in early 2016 and were increased by 2% with effect from 1 April 2016.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees will next be reviewed in early 2017, with any increase becoming effective from 1 April 2017.
A summary of current fees is shown below: Percentage Base fees 2017 2016 change Chairman 173,400 170,000 2% Non-Executive Director 53,550 52,500 2% Additional fees Senior Independent Director 9,180 9,000 2% Audit Committee Chairman 9,180 9,000 2% Remuneration Committee Chairman 9,180 9,000 2% There is no additional fee payable to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
67 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Directors shareholding and share interests Audited The Group has adopted formal shareholding guidelines in order to encourage Executive Directors to maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of salary for Trevor Mather and 150% of salary for Sean Glithero.
If an Executive does not meet the guideline, they will be expected to retain at least half of the net shares vesting under the Companys discretionary share-based employee incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
Both Executive Directors currently hold well in excess of this limit, as set out below.
The table below sets out the number of shares held or potentially held by Directors including their connected persons where relevant as at 27 March 2016.
Number of awards Target Percentage of held under the PSP shareholding salary held in Beneficially conditional on guideline shares as at 1 2 3 Director owned shares performance as a % of salary 27March 2016 Executive Directors Trevor Mather 19,134,581 446,808 200% 1,421,062% Sean Glithero 5,197,581 185,106 150% 698,806% Non-Executive Directors Ed Williams 6,875,444 N A N A Jill Easterbrook N A N A David Keens N A N A Jeni Mundy N A N A 1 I ncludes shares owned by connected persons.
Only beneficially owned shares count towards the shareholding guideline.
2 The first PSP awards were granted in June 2015 following the announcement of results.
3 Based on mid-market price at close of business on 27 March 2016.
On 6 April 2016, Trevor Mather disposed of 7,134,581 shares and Sean Glithero disposed of 1,600,000 shares at a price of 3.70 per share each.
Following the disposal, as at the date of this report Trevor Mather and his connected persons beneficially own 12,000,000 shares and Sean Glithero beneficially owns 3,597,581 shares, representing 891,200% and 483,689% of salary respectively.
External directorships Neither of the Executive Directors holds any external directorships.
Membership of the Committee Jill Easterbrook is the Committee Chairman, and its other members are David Keens and Jeni Mundy.
Refer to page 60 for further details of the membership of the Committee, the terms of reference, the meetings held and activities during the year.
External advisors New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc, provides independent advice to, and was appointed by, the Committee.
NBS were selected by the Committee due to their extensive experience of advising listed companies with respect to remuneration.
The Committee seeks advice relating to the remuneration of Executive Directors, the wider senior management population and Non-Executive Directors fees from NBS.
Neither NBS nor Aon provide any other services to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received by NBS in relation to executive remuneration matters during the year was objective and independent.
Terms of engagement are available on request from the Company Secretary.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
The fees payable to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive remuneration over the financial year under review were charged on a time-spent basis, and were approximately 57,000.
68 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of shareholder voting At the AGM in September 2015, we sought shareholder approval for two remuneration related resolutions.
Firstly, binding approval was sought for the Remuneration Policy Report, and secondly an advisory approval for the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The voting outcomes were as follows: Remuneration policy binding Number of votes cast % of votes cast Votes for 797,281,130 98.20 Votes against 14,637,737 1.80 Total votes cast excluding abstentions 811,918,867 Abstentions 7,139,212 Total votes including abstentions 819,058,079 Annual Report on Remuneration advisory Number of votes cast % of votes cast Votes for 799,463,071 97.63 Votes against 19,423,817 2.37 Total votes cast excluding abstentions 818,886,888 Abstentions 171,192 Total votes including abstentions 819,058,080 Approval This Directors remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Jill Easterbrook Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 June 2016 69 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Appendix: Summary remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out a summary of A further aim of the remuneration policy is to encourage a culture of share the full Remuneration Policy report that was approved by shareholders ownership by colleagues throughout the Company, and in support of this in September 2015. we have put in place both a SIP, under which an award of free shares to commemorate the Listing was granted, and an SAYE scheme.
For the full report, please refer to the 2015 Directors remuneration report.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors Policy overview Our policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, On Admission in March 2015, a new remuneration policy was adopted remuneration structured so that there is a significant weighting by the Committee.
This policy is structured so as to ensure that the towards performance-based elements.
A significant proportion of main elements of remuneration are linked to Company strategy, in line our variable pay is delivered in shares with deferral and holding periods with best practice and aligned with shareholders interests.
being mandatory, and with appropriate recovery and withholding provisions in place to safeguard against overpayments in the event The policy is designed to reward Executive Directors by offering of certain negative events occurring.
The table below provides a full competitive remuneration packages, which are prudently constructed, summary of the policy elements for the Executive Directors.
sufficiently stretching and linked to long-term profitability.
In promoting these objectives, the policy aims to be simple in design, transparent and structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
Purpose and Operation and Maximum Performance Element link to strategy performance conditions opportunity assessment To recruit and Salaries are normally reviewed annually There is no prescribed The Committee reviews the Salary reward executives with changes effective from 1 April.
However, the salaries of Executive Directors of high calibre.
Committee is guided by each year taking due account Salary reviews will consider: the average annual of all the factors described in Recognises personal performance: increase of the workforce.
how the salary policy operates.
individuals Company performance: Higher increases in experience, individuals experience: and percentage of salary responsibility increases elsewhere in the Company.
terms may be awarded and performance.
Periodic account of practice in comparable companies at the discretion of the in terms of size and complexity will be taken e. g. the Committee, for example constituents of the FTSE 250 Index.
but not limited to : in relation to the change in The Committee considers the impact of any salary size, scale or scope of an increase on the total remuneration package.
individuals role, following the appointment of a new executive to bring that executives package in line with market over a number of years.
To provide Executive Directors are entitled to the following benefits: The value of benefits is not N A Benefits competitive capped as it is determined life assurance: benefits to ensure by the insurance cost to the income protection insurance: and the wellbeing of Company which may vary.
However, the nature of the Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in benefits is expected to all-employee share schemes on the same basis as remain unchanged.
Pension To provide Directors are eligible to receive employer contributions 5% of salary p. a. N A retirement benefits to the Companys pension plan which is a defined for employees.
contribution plan or a salary supplement in lieu of pension benefits.
70 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose and Operation and Maximum Performance Element link to strategy performance conditions opportunity assessment Annual To incentivise The annual bonus is based predominantly on The Chief Executives Financial measures will 1,2, 3 and reward the stretching financial and operational objectives as bonus is capped at 150% normally represent the bonus achievement set at the beginning of the year and assessed by of salary and the Finance majority of bonus, with of annual financial the Committee following the year end.
Directors is capped at clearly defined non-financial and operational 130% of salary annually.
targets representing the Half of any bonus earned is subject to deferral in shares objectives which are balance if any.
under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, typically closely linked to the for a period of two years.
The deferred shares will vest With regards to financial corporate strategy.
subject to continued employment, but there are no further targets, not more than 20% performance targets.
of this part of the bonus will be payable for achieving the A dividend equivalent provision allows the Committee relevant threshold hurdle.
to pay dividends, at the Committees discretion, on Where non-financial targets vested shares in cash or shares at the time of vesting operate, it may not always be and may assume the reinvestment of dividends on a practicable to set targets on a cumulative basis.
graduated scale, where these Recovery and withholding provisions apply as described operate not more than 33% will in note 1.
These provisions apply in the event of material be payable for achieving the misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of threshold target.
bonus outcome or in instances of individual gross Measures and weightings may misconduct.
change each year to reflect any Participation in the bonus plan, and all bonus payments, year-on-year changes to are at the discretion of the Committee.
Performance To incentivise Awards will normally be made annually under the PSP, Normal maximum A blend of performance and recognise and will take the form of nil-cost options or conditional of 200% of salary.
metrics, including financial Share Plan 1,2, 4 successful execution share awards.
Participation and individual award levels and total shareholder return, PSP Exceptional circumstances of the business will be determined at the discretion of the Committee will be used.
Financial metrics maximum of 300% of salary.
strategy over the within the policy.
will comprise a majority of longer term.
Awards normally vest after three years subject to the To align the long-term extent to which the performance conditions specified The metrics and weightings interests of Executives for the awards are satisfied, and continued service.
for each award will be set with those of out in the Annual Report on Recovery and withholding provisions apply as described shareholders.
These provisions apply in the event of material targets will be set out unless misstatement of results, an error in the calculation they are considered to be of a vesting result or in instances of individual gross commercially sensitive.
No more than 25% of the As a minimum, Executive Directors will ordinarily be award vests for achieving required to retain their net of tax number of vested threshold performance.
shares delivered under the PSP for at least two years 5 from the point of vesting.
100% of the award vests for achieving maximum A dividend equivalent provision allows the Committee to pay performance.
dividends, at the Committees discretion, on vested shares in cash or shares at the time of vesting and may assume the reinvestment of dividends on a cumulative basis.
All-employee To encourage The Company has adopted two all-employee tax Maximum permitted N A Group-wide equity advantaged plans, namely a savings related share savings based on HMRC Share Plans: 6 ownership across all option scheme SAYE and a Share Incentive Plan limits from time to time.
SIP & SAYE employees, and SIP for the benefit of Group employees.
create a culture of The operation of these plans will be at the discretion ownership.
of the Committee and Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on a consistent basis to other employees.
Share To increase alignment Executive Directors are required to build and maintain At least 200% of salary N A between executives a holding of shares in the Company.
This is to be built for the Chief Executive ownership and shareholders.
through retaining a minimum of 50% of the net of tax and at least 150% of salary guidelines vested PSP and DABP shares, until the guideline level for the Finance Director, is met.
or such higher level as the Committee may determine from time to time.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply to variable pay, to enable the Company to recover amounts paid under the annual bonus and PSP in the event of the following negative events occurring within three years of the payment date: a material misstatement or restatement to the audited financial statements or other data: an error in the calculation leading to over-payment of bonus: or individual gross misconduct.
Should such an event be suspected, there will be a further two years in which the Committee may investigate the event.
The amount to be recovered would generally be the excess payment over the amount which would otherwise be paid, and recovery may be satisfied in a variety of ways, including through the reduction of outstanding deferred awards, reduction of the next bonus or PSP vesting and seeking a cash repayment.
I n order to ensure that the remuneration policy is capable of achieving its intended aims, the Committee retains certain discretions over the operation of the variable pay policy.
These include the ability to vary the operation of the plans in certain circumstances such as a change of control, rights issue, corporate restructuring events or special dividend including the timing and determination of pay-outs vesting, and making appropriate adjustments to performance targets as necessary to ensure that performance conditions remain appropriate.
However, it should be noted that in the event that the measures or targets are varied for outstanding awards in the light of a corporate event, the revised targets may not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Should these discretions be used, they would be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may be subject to consultation with shareholders as appropriate.
A nnual bonus performance measures are selected annually to reflect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives.
Amajority weighting is placed on financial performance, including a significant element being based on profit-based metrics, ensuring that pay-outs are closely linked to Company growth.
T he use of a combination of internal financial performance and total shareholder return measures within the PSP is designed to ensure that rewards are linked to long-term shareholder value creation.
The financial metrics chosen will be the measure or measures considered by the Committee at the time of each grant to be most likely to support the Companys long-term growth strategy.
The use of TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for outperformance of sector peers.
I n exceptional circumstances, the Committee may in its discretion allow participants to sell, transfer, assign or dispose of some or all of these shares before the end of the holding period.
A lthough eligible, the Executive Directors opted out of the offer of Free Shares made to all employees in April 2015.
A d escription of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for 2017 is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
71 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts and policy for payments on loss of office PSP on termination The service contracts for the Executive Directors are terminable by Share-based awards are outside of service contracts.
either the Company or the Executive Director on 12 months notice and make provision for early termination by way of payment of a cash Normally, PSP awards will lapse upon a participant ceasing to sum equal to 12 months salary, and pension.
However, under the Rules of the PSP, in certain prescribed circumstances namely, death, sale of employing company Payment in lieu of notice can be paid either as a lump sum or in from the business or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee, equal monthly instalments over the notice period, with mitigation.
good leaver status can be applied.
In exercising its discretion The Committee will consider the particular circumstances of each as to whether an Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver on an individual basis and retains flexibility as to at what point, leaver the Committee will take into account the performance of and the extent to which, payments are reduced.
the individual and the reasons for their departure and, in the event of this determination being made, will set out its rationale in the At the discretion of the Committee, a contribution to reasonable following Annual Report on Remuneration.
outplacement costs in the event of termination of employment due to redundancy may also be made.
A payment to the value of 12 months The extent to which PSP awards will vest in good leaver contractual benefits may also be made.
The Committee also retains the circumstances will depend on: ability to reimburse reasonable legal costs incurred in connection with a i the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied termination of employment and may make a payment for any statutory at the relevant time: and entitlements or to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of any existing or future Executive Director as necessary.
ii the pro-rating of the award determined by the period of time served in employment during the vesting period.
Relevant details will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration should such circumstances apply.
In such circumstances, PSP awards will usually vest on the normal vesting date.
The Committee retains the discretion to reduce or In summary, the contractual provisions on termination where the eliminate time pro-rating, if it regards it to be appropriate in particular Company elects to make a payment in lieu of notice are as follows: circumstances.
However, if the time pro-rating is varied from the default position under the PSP Rules, an explanation will be set out in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
For the avoidance Provision Detailed terms of doubt, the application of the performance condition may not be Notice period 12 months by either party.
waived, although the Committee may at its discretion alter the date to which performance is measured e. g. to the date of cessation of Termination payments 100% of salary.
employment as opposed to over the full performance period.
over the notice period 5% in respect of pension contributions.
Change of control There are no enhanced provisions Approach to recruitment and promotions on a change of control.
The recruitment package for a new Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy.
Currently, The Executive Directors are subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
this would include an annual bonus opportunity of up to 150% of salary and policy PSP award of up to 200% of salary other than in exceptional Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys circumstances where up to 300% of salary may be made.
On recruitment, salary may but need not necessarily be set at a level Annual bonus on termination below the normal market rate, with phased increases greater than those There is no automatic or contractual right to bonus payment.
received by others as the executive gains experience.
The rate of salary At the discretion of the Committee, for certain leavers, a pro-rata should be set so as to reflect the individuals experience and skills.
bonus may become payable at the normal payment date for the period of employment and based on full year performance.
Should The Committee recognises that it may be necessary in some the Committee decide to make a payment in such circumstances, the circumstances to compensate for amounts foregone from a previous rationale would be fully disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Any such compensatory award would be limited to what is felt to be a fair estimate of the value of remuneration foregone taking into account the value of the award, the extent to which performance conditions apply, the form of award and the time left to vesting.
72 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of their prior role would normally be allowed to pay out according to its outstanding terms.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that, if they are outside the approved policy, they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For all appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain appropriate relocation costs.
Policy on external appointments Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to take on one non-executive position with another company and to retain their fees in respect of such position.
Details of outside directorships held by the Executive Directors and any fees that they received are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To attract and retain the Fees are reviewed periodically and approved by the Board or, There is no prescribed high-calibre Chairman and in the case of the Chairman, by the Remuneration Committee, maximum annual increase Non-Executive Directors with Non-Executive Directors abstaining from any discussion in nor is there a cap on fees.
by offering a market relation to their fees.
Both the Chairman and the Non-Executive The fee levels are competitive fee level.
Directors are paid annual fees and do not participate in any of reviewed on a periodic the Companys incentive arrangements, or receive any pension basis, with reference to provision or other benefits.
the time commitment of The Chairman receives a single fee covering all of his duties.
the role and market levels in companies of comparable The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, size and complexity.
with additional fees payable for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees and for performing the Senior Independent Director role.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled to have reimbursed all expenses that they reasonably incur in the performance of their duties.
Letters of appointment All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
Appointment is terminable on six months written notice.
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors provide that no compensation is payable upon termination of employment.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Approach to recruitment For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
73 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors report Management report The Directors have pleasure in submitting This Directors report, on pages 74 to 78, together with the Strategic their Report and the audited financial report on pages 2 to 43, form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
statements of AutoTrader Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries The Strategic report The Strategic report, which can be found on pages 2 to 43, sets out together the Group for the financial the Groups strategy, objectives and business model: the development, year to 27 March 2016. performance and position of the Groups business including financial and operating key performance indicators : a description of the Statutory information principal risks and uncertainties: and the main trends and factors Information required to be part of the Directors report can be found likely to affect the future development, performance and position elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below and is of the Groups business.
incorporated into this Report by reference: UK corporate governance code Section of Annual Report Page reference The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in Employee involvement Strategic report: corporate social the Corporate governance statement, the Report of the Nomination responsibility page 40 Committee, the Report of the Audit Committee and the Directors Employees with disabilities Strategic report: corporate social remuneration report on pages 44 to 73, all of which form part of responsibility page 41 this Directors report and are incorporated into it by reference.
Financial instruments Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements 2016 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 10.00 am on Future developments Strategic report pages 2 to 43 of the business 22 September 2016 at the Companys registered office at 4th Floor, 1Tony Wilson Place, Manchester, M15 4FN.
The Notice of Meeting Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate social responsibility page 43 sets out the resolutions to be proposed and specifies the deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes Information required by LR 9.8.
4 R will be counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation Information required to be included in the Annual Financial Report to each resolution will be announced at the AGM and published on by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in this document as indicated in the the Companys website.
table below: Board of Directors Section of Annual Report Page reference The following individuals were Directors of the Company for the Allotment of shares during the year Directors report page 75 and whole of the financial year ending 27 March 2016, and to the date note 23 to the consolidated financial statements of approving this report unless otherwise stated: Directors interests Remuneration report page 68 Ed Williams Significant shareholders Directors report page 76 Trevor Mather Sean Glithero Going concern Strategic report page 35 David Keens appointed on 1 May 2015 Long-term incentive schemes Directors remuneration report Jill Easterbrook appointed on 1 July 2015 pages 60 to 73 Jeni Mundy appointed on 1 March 2016 Powers for the Company Directors report page 75 Victor Perry III resigned on 7 March 2016 to buy back its shares Tom Hall resigned on 7 March 2016 Significant contracts Directors report page 76 Nick Hartman resigned on 7 March 2016 Significant related party Directors report page 76 and agreements note 30 to the consolidated All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM in financial statements line with the recommendations of the Code.
Statement of corporate governance Corporate governance statement pages 44 to 73 Appointment and replacement of Directors At each Annual General Meeting each Director then in office shall retire from office with effect from the conclusion of the meeting.
When a Director retires at an Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company may, by ordinary resolution at the meeting, fill the office being vacated by re-electing the retiring Director.
In the absence of such a resolution, the retiring Director shall nevertheless be deemed to have been re-elected, except in the cases identified by the Articles.
74 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Until 7 March 2016, the Company had a Relationship Agreement Share capital and control with Crystal A Holdco S.. r. l. and Crystal B Holdco S.. r. l. funds The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares advised by Apax the Apax Shareholders, that it may appoint and of 0.01 each which are listed on the London Stock Exchange remove two Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the LSE: AUTO.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BVYVFW23.
Apax Shareholders and or any of its associates, when taken together hold 20% or more of the voting rights over the Companys shares, The issued share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2016 and one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as it and or and 9 June 2016, comprises 1,001,051,699 of 0.01 each.
Further any of its associates, when taken together holds 10% or more but information regarding the Companys issued share capital and less than 20% of the voting rights over the Companys ordinary details of the movements in issued share capital during the year shares.
On 26 February 2016, the Apax Shareholders disposed are provided in note 23 to the Groups financial statements.
All the of shares such that their combined holding fell below 10% of information detailed in note 23 forms part of this Directors report the Companys issued share capital.
Subsequently, the Apax and is incorporated into it by reference.
Non-Executive Directors Tom Hall and Nick Hartman resigned from the Board with effect from 7 March 2016, and therefore the Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 27 to the Relationship Agreement was terminated from that date.
Results and dividends Capital reduction The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for the year During the year, the Company completed a reduction of share capital are set out on pages 84 to 133 whereby the entire amount standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account, being 144,431,628, was cancelled and The Company declared an interim dividend on 13 November 2015 the nominal value of each issued ordinary share in the capital of the of 0.5 pence per share which was paid on 29 January 2016.
Company was reduced from 1.50 to 0.01.
The reduction of capital was necessary in order to provide the Company with the distributable The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend of 1.0 pence reserves required to support the dividend policy.
per share 2015: Nil to be paid on 30 September 2016 to shareholders on the register of members at 2 September 2016, subject to approval The capital reduction was approved by a special resolution passed at the 2016 AGM.
at a general meeting of the Company on 18 March 2015, and was formally approved by the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Amendment of the Articles on 29 July 2015.
Following registration of the order of the High Court The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended with Companies House, the Capital Reduction became effective on by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
Rights attaching to shares All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights Authority to allot shares and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Under the 2006 Act, the Directors may only allot shares if authorised Articles, described overleaf.
Except in relation to dividends which to do so by shareholders in a general meeting.
The authority conferred have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the on the Directors at the 2015 AGM under section 551 of the 2006 Act shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM, and ordinary resolution The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, following any 11 seeks a new authority to allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares grant of authority from shareholders, the Company may purchase up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,674,012 667,401,167 shares, or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off market, subject representing approximately two thirds of the Companys existing share to the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
capital at 9 June 2016, of which 333,650,531 shares representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
The Directors rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares have no present intention of exercising this authority which will expire relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017 or 21 December 2017 if earlier.
to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in the case of the AutoTrader Group Authority to purchase own shares Share Incentive Plan, where share interests of a participant in such As described in the Financial review on page 32, the Directors intend scheme can be exercised by the personal representatives of a to commence a share buyback programme in the near future.
By deceased participant in accordance with the Scheme rules.
resolutions passed at the 2015 AGM the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 100,105,169 of its ordinary shares, subject to minimum and maximum price restrictions.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
As at the date of this report, the Company has not exercised any powers to purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a maximum of 100,105,169 of its own ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
75 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors report continued Voting rights Change of control Each ordinary share entitles the holder to vote at general meetings Save in respect of a provision of the Companys share schemes of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be which may cause options and awards granted to employees decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show under such schemes to vest on takeover, there are no agreements of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a between the Company and its Directors or employees providing general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise because of a every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline takeover bid.
for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned Significant contracts meeting.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, are the have been paid.
Save as noted, there are no restrictions on voting Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility agreements, which contain rights nor any agreement that may result in such restrictions.
customary prepayment, cancellation and default provisions including, if required by a lender, mandatory prepayment of all utilisations Restrictions on transfer of securities provided by that lender upon the sale of all or substantially all of The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary the business and assets of the Group or a change of control.
shares in the Company other than the usual restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
Certain restrictions are Interests in voting rights also imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and At the year end the Company had been notified, in accordance marketing requirements relating to close periods and requirements with Chapter 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees of the Transparency Rules, of the following significant interest in the issued Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
ordinary share capital of the Company: At 27 March 2016 At 9 June 2016 On 18 March 2015, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement the Underwriting Agreement with the Directors, Percentage of Percentage of Number of voting rights Number of voting rights the Apax Shareholders, Merrill Lynch International and Deutsche ordinary over ordinary ordinary over ordinary Bank AG London Branch the Joint Global Coordinators and Merrill shares voting shares of shares voting shares of Shareholder rights notified 0.01 each rights notified 0.01 each Lynch International, Deutsche Bank AG London Branch, J. P. Morgan Securities plc, Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc and Numis Blackrock Inc. 109,081,617 10.89% 119,863,385 11.97% Securities Limited the Underwriters, in accordance with which the Apax Shareholders agreed not to dispose of any ordinary shares in Transactions with related parties the Company for a period of 360 days following Admission without Refer to note 30 of the consolidated financial statements for details of the prior written consent of the Joint Global Coordinators: and each related party transactions in the year.
The only material transactions of the Directors agreed not to dispose of any ordinary shares for with related parties during the year were: a period of 360 days following Admission without the prior written Relationship Agreement: The Relationship Agreement was consent of the Joint Global Coordinators.
Each member of the entered into on 19 March 2015 between the Apax Shareholders Operational Leadership Team also agreed with the Company not and the Company, and its principal purpose was to ensure that to dispose of any ordinary shares in the Company for a period of the Company was capable at all times of carrying on its business 360 days following Admission without the prior written consent independently of the Apax Shareholders.
Subject to a certain of the Company.
These agreements expired on 18 March 2016. minimum shareholding, the Relationship Agreement detailed All of the above arrangements are or were subject to certain the rights the Apax Shareholders had: to representation on the customary exceptions.
Board and Nomination Committee: to appoint observers to the Remuneration and Audit Committees: and to certain anti-dilution Following the disposal of part of their shareholding in the Company rights.
The Company had also undertaken to cooperate with on 6 April 2016, Trevor Mather and Sean Glithero each entered into a the Apax Shareholders in the event of a sale of the shares by deed whereby they agreed not to dispose of any ordinary shares for either of the Apax Shareholders at any time following the IPO.
a period of 90 days without the prior written consent of the Company, This agreement was terminated on 7 March 2016 following the subject to certain customary exceptions.
disposal of shares by the Apax Shareholders and the subsequent resignation of the Apax Non-Executive Directors from the Board.
76 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Research and development Directors responsibilities statement Innovation, specifically in software, is a critical element of AutoTraders The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, strategy and therefore of the future success of the Group.
Accordingly, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements the majority of the Groups research and development expenditure in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
is predominantly related to this area.
Since 30 September 2013, the Group has changed its approach to technology development Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements such that the Group now develops its core infrastructure through for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the small-scale, maintenance-like incremental improvements, and as a Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial result the amount of capitalised development costs has decreased as Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, less expenditure meets the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible assets.
and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Indemnities and insurance Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising Financial Reporting The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the and officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries and such insurance UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and applicable law.
Under was in force for the whole of the financial year ending 27 Mach 2016. company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements The Company also indemnifies the Directors under a qualifying indemnity unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state for the purposes of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006: in the of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of case of the Non-Executive Directors in their respective letters of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, appointment and in the case of the Executive Directors in a separate the Directors are required to: deed of indemnity.
Such indemnities contain provisions that are select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: permitted by the Director Liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Environmental state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the applicable UK Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 43 and forms part of been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and this report by reference.
explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and Political donations During the year, no political donations were made.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
External branches The Group had no active registered external branches during the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records reporting period.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Financial instruments position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Disclosure of information to auditors detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information the corporate and financial information included on the Companys of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit other jurisdictions.
information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
77 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors report continued The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 74, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic report contained on pages 2 to 43 and the Directors report contained on pages 74 to 78 include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Approval of Annual Report The Strategic report and the Corporate governance report were approved by the Board on 9 June 2016.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
Sean Glithero Company Secretary 9 June 2016 78 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
