Remuneration report Report of the Remuneration Committee Jeff Randall Where has our main focus been since Annual Statement of Committee Chairman our last Report to shareholders?
theRemuneration In addition to a number of regularly Committee Chairman recurring and routine matters relating to the application of our remuneration Dear Shareholder policy, the important matters for the I am pleased to present the Directors Committee over the past year have been: remuneration report for 2015 16. consideration of remuneration This Directors remuneration report has arrangements for 2016 17 in light of three parts: this, the Chairmans Annual changes to the management team, Statement, a Policy Report and an Annual including removal of deferred bonus Report on Remuneration.
Together they matching arrangements for Executive present full and transparent disclosure of Directors under the DBMP: the Companys intentions as to Directors agreeing a remuneration package for remuneration and how our remuneration Archie Bethel, as Chief Operating arrangements operate.
Our current Officer, who until 31 March 2016 was remuneration policy was approved at the Chief Executive Marineand Technology.
2014 AGM, and is set out on pages96 Archie has been serving as Chief to105 below for shareholders Operating Officer since 1 April 2016 convenience.
Whilst we have made some and will be taking over from Peter changes to the implementation of our Rogers as the new Group Chief policy, we are not proposing to make any Executive on 1 September 2016, at changes to the policy itself this year and which point his salary will be revisited: will next submit our policy with any deciding appropriate leaving terms proposed changes to shareholders for for two retiring Executive Directors: approval at the 2017 AGM.
We will, Peter Rogers and Kevin Thomas: however, be seeking an advisory vote as to your approval of this Annual Statement seeking views of our largest and the Annual Report on Remuneration shareholders and investor bodies in at the Annual General Meeting on advance of implementing changes to Thursday, 21 July 2016. remuneration arrangements for 2016 17, the main thrust of which is to simplify executive remuneration by removing deferred bonus matching arrangements, whilst broadly maintaining the fair value of total remuneration by moving salaries closer to market and increasing the PSP opportunity: initial consideration of changes to our remuneration policy that may be required before being put to shareholders for re-approval at next years AGM.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 92 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Directors more closely with market by In summary, for Executive Directors, Changes to remuneration moving salaries closer to market median, other than the current Chief Executive arrangements for Executive Directors and increase the PSP opportunity within the Peter Rogers who will be retiring at the Babcocks remuneration policy is pitched limits prescribed in our approved policy, end of August, we: to deliver fixed remuneration at or below tohelp support recruitment and retention median and total remuneration capable of have set the base salary for the new whilst maintaining broadly the fair value of delivering upper quartile reward for upper Chief Operating Officer role at 550k Executive Director total remuneration for quartile performance.
However, senior have brought salaries for continuing those whose roles are unchanged and executive salaries have not kept pace Executive Directors closer to delivering pay in line with our policy.
with market or with the increased market median responsibilities in managing what is now The DBMP currently allows for a decided, for continuing directors, to a significantly larger and more complex performance-based matching award of cease granting matching awards under business than it wasfive years ago two shares for each share mandatorily or the DBMP from 2016 onwards: all our market capitalisation has grown from voluntarily invested, which is worth up to outstanding awards will vest according 2.2 billion on 31 March 2011 to 4.8 200% of salary based on the maximum to pre-determined vesting conditions billion on 31 March 2016.
Executive permitted investment of 100% of salary.
Directors 2015 16 base salaries were are retaining mandatory deferral of Having removed this matching opportunity positioned on average c 20% behind 40% of bonus into Basic Share Awards, for the Executive Directors going forward, market, while total remuneration was to be held for three years the Committee intends to increase the PSP approximately aligned with market award opportunity for all directors other are aligning PSP opportunities for all onafair value basis other than for the than Peter Rogers by 50% of salary and has Executive Directors at 200% of salary Group Finance Director whose package made significant changes to base salaries will include ROCE as a performance was c 15% below market.
Having Executive see below in order to ensure that the fair measure in the PSP ie performance Director salaries so significantly below value of Executive Director total will be based 1 3, 1 3, 1 3 on relative market also affects remuneration for other remuneration is broadly maintained TSR, EPS and ROCE senior staff and we were concerned that for those whose roles are unchanged.
are broadly maintaining the fair value this does, and will increasingly, affect our Whilst the Committee considered phasing of total remuneration for those whose ability to recruit and retain talent both at salary increases over more than one year, roles are unchanged and below Boardlevel.
we believed that this approach would prolong the period for which Executive As Peter Rogers, current Chief Executive, In terms of structure, our incentives for Directors pay is below market and will be retiring shortly we have simply Executive Directors have comprised the therefore determined that a one-off increased his salary effective 1 April 2016 annual bonus, matching share awards realignment would better achieve our by 2.7% within the range of increases under the DBMP and share awards under aims.
Further, if we did not provide the for the wider UK Babcock employee the PSP.
The making of matching awards salary increase to executives immediately, population and have made no changes under the DBMP has been a successful our Executive Directors would be receiving to his current incentive arrangements.
incentive since introduction in 2012 and an effective reduction in their total we believe has supported us in driving Before we implemented these changes, remuneration as a result of the removal superior results in earnings growth I wrote and or spoke to a number of our of the DBMP matching opportunity.
However, the largest shareholders to solicit their views Committee is aware of shareholder Since adoption in 2012, DBMP on the above changes, and received desire for simple long-term incentive matching awards have included a ROCE broad support.
arrangements and in particular some performance measure alongside TSR and shareholder concerns regarding the EPS, whilst PSP awards have been made perceived complexity of the DBMP.
based on an equal weighting of TSR and EPS growth.
The Committee considers In light of the changes to our management thatROCE continues to be an effective team, and having in mind shareholder views measure of long-term performance and on current remuneration arrangements, that it reinforces the focus on returns for including requests for less complexity, the shareholders, encourages capital Remuneration Committee considered disciplineand provides good line of sight carefully how best to apply our policy for for management.
Therefore, in order to remuneration for executive directors retain a weighting on ROCE in Babcocks during the current financial year, 2016 17. long-term incentives following the Having sounded out the views of leading elimination of matching awards under shareholders, the Committee has taken this the DBMP, we plan to use ROCE, TSR opportunity as explained below to remove and EPS equally weighted as performance matching share awards under the DBMP measures for the PSP awards to be made for continuing directors, align the in2016 17. remuneration packages for Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 93 Remuneration report continued New Chief Executive The growth of the Company under Consideration of changes to the Peters leadership since August 2003 Remuneration Policy Archie Bethel will take over as Chief has been impressive.
During his 13-year Executive on 1 September 2016, at The remuneration changes outlined tenure as Chief Executive, Babcock has which point the Remuneration Committee above are all permitted within our grown from a small cap business to a FTSE will once again review his salary and set existing approved Remuneration Policy.
100 company witha revenueof 4,842 it at an appropriate level for that role.
As I mentioned in my Annual Statement million in 2015 16, delivering total In anticipation of his appointment, shareholder return of 1,204% c 22.5% last year, we will be reviewing our policy the Committee has reviewed both p. a. over the period to 31 March 2016. regarding malus and clawback provisions Peter will be the first to acknowledge that market data for total remuneration, with the intention of including any this record is the result of a group effort, andthe salary that Peter Rogers would changes in a revised remuneration policy led by a senior management team at have received had he continued as Chief at the next formal approval of policy, Babcock which has remained largely Executive and been subject to the changes scheduled for the 2017 AGM.
unchanged over that time, Kevin Thomas implemented for other ongoing executive having been a key member.
Further, Remuneration outcomes for 2015 16 directors ie removal of DBMP and a salary inrecent years, Peter and the Board's Against the background reported in the increase to maintain broadlythe fair value effective work on succession planning Chairman's statement on page 4: of total remuneration.
With this in mind hasensured that Babcock is well placed the Committee is minded to appoint forthe future, and has enabled us to annual bonus payments in respect of promote talent internally which we Archie Bethel as Chief Executive on a salary the year to 31 March 2016 are up to believe is very much in the interests of our of c 750k, which would remain below 62% of maximum see page 109 for shareholders.
Recognising this record and market median and will represent a more detail : and a desire for a Directors interests to be reduction in total remuneration for the aligned with those of our shareholders performance over the longer-term role.
The final approved salary for the fora period beyond the date of leaving, performance period from 1 April 2013 incoming Chief Executive will be disclosed the Committee has exercised its discretion to 31 March 2016 is expected to result in next year's remuneration report.
in accordance with approved policy to in 38.7% vesting of the PSP awards allow Peter and Kevin each to retain The retirement of Peter Rogers made in 2013 and 58.8% vesting of the theperformance pro-rated share matching awards made that year under and Kevin Thomas awardsmade to them up to June 2015. the DBMP.
Peter Rogers joined the Company and The awards will continue to be subject to theBoard in June 2002.
He will be retiring any performance conditions attached to them and their normal vesting periods will from the Company at the end of August Jeff Randall remain unchanged.
The Committee also 2016 having served initially as Chief Committee Chairman intends to grant to Peter Rogers a time Operating Officer and for the last 13 years pro-rated PSP award in June 2016, with 24 May 2016 as Chief Executive.
Archie Bethel formerly the level of the award reduced to one Chief Executive, Marine and Technology sixth of what it would normally have been division has taken on the role of Chief to reflect the fact that he will retire in Operating Officer from 1 April 2016 August.
Peter will be required to defer 40% pending his taking over as Chief Executive ofhis annual bonus awards for 2015 16 on 1 September 2016. into shares in line with our remuneration policy.
Rather than award a significant Kevin Thomas formerly Chief Executive, salary increase for his continuing service Support Services, having served five and after 1 April 2016 we will instead be a half years as an Executive Director, offering Peter Rogers a matching award stepped down from the Board on 31 under the DBMP on his deferral including any permitted voluntary deferral, but December 2015 and retired as a full-time with the matching opportunity time executive on 31 March 2016.
He joined pro-rated as for the PSP.
Peter Rogers is the Board in 2002.
Before joining the also participating in the 2016 17 annual Board, Kevin had held a number of senior bonus scheme, but will receiveonly 50% management roles.
Kevin was succeeded of the amount that would be payable for as Chief Executive, Support Services by the full year.
Any such payment will be John Davies formerly, Chief Executive, made in June 2017 as to 60% in cash and Defence and Security.
40% deferred into shares for three years, but he will not be eligible for a matching opportunity on that deferral.
Both Peter Rogers and Kevin Thomas will continue, therefore, to have a substantial interest in the form of share awards that are dependent on the future performance of the Company after their retirements.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 94 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Glossary of terms As used in this remuneration report CSOP means the 2009 Babcock Company Share Option Plan DBP means the 2009 Babcock Deferred Bonus Plan DBMP means the 2012 Babcock Deferred Bonus Matching Plan PSP means the 2009 Babcock Performance Share Plan PBT means underlying Profit Before Tax PBIT means underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax OCF means Operating Cash Flow as determined for management purposes ROCE means Return on Capital Employed EPS means basic underlying Earnings per Share Remuneration Committee the Committee Compliance statement Terms of reference for the Committee are available for This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2015 inspection on the Companys website and were reviewed to 31 March 2016 and provides details of the Committees during the year.
Duties of the Committee include the review of membership, details of its deliberations on executive the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and remuneration during the year under review and remuneration the Chairman, as well as their specific remuneration packages.
This report has been prepared by the In determining the remuneration policy, the Committee takes Committee according to the requirements of the Companies Act into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure 2006 the Act, Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and that members of the senior executive management of the Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and other strong performance and that they are rewarded for their relevant requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
In addition, individual contributions to the success of the Company the Committee has applied the principles of good corporate in a fair and responsible manner.
governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, and has considered guidelines issued by its leading shareholders The composition of the Committee see page106 and and bodies such as the Investment Association, Institutional its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the Shareholder Services and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Corporate Governance Code.
In accordance with Section 439 and 439A of the Act, an advisory resolution to approve this Annual Statement andthe Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at theAnnual General Meeting on 21 July 2016.
This report contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
The information subject to audit is so marked.
The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report that the Audited information in this report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 95 Remuneration report continued rather than on the fixed elements of pay.
The rationale is to Remuneration Policy Report incentivise and reward success.
Key principles of the remuneration policy Weighting towards long-term, performance-related pay Objective The focus of our executive remuneration is, therefore, To provide fair remuneration arrangements that allow for weightedtowards performance-related pay with a significant enhanced rewards for delivery of superior performance by element weighted towards long-term rather than short-term allowing for the possibility of upper quartile rewards for upper performance.
We believe that, properly structured and with quartile performance, that align Directors and shareholders suitable safeguards, variable, performance-related rewards interests and take account of risk.
arethe best way of linking pay to strategy, risk management andshareholders interests.
Our policy for executives reflects a preference that we believe isshared by the majority of our shareholders to rely more heavily on the value of variable performance-related rewards, Directors Remuneration Policy as approved at the AGM held on 21 July 2014 andupdated as explained on page101 below Summary of Babcocks remuneration policy for Executive Directors Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Should be at a level that is i fair and Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to the individuals role, experience and In respect of existing Executive Directors, it is anticipated Business and individual performance are considerations ii capable, when taken with the performance: salary levels at relevant comparators are considered but do not in themselves thatdecisions on any salary increases will be guided by the in setting base salary.
increases for the wider employee population over the term of related pay, of delivering upper this policy.
In certain circumstances including, but not limited to, quartile actual remuneration for a material increase in job size or complexity, market forces, upper quartile performance.
promotion or recruitment the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive.
Latest salaries are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 113.
Pension To provide market competitive Cash supplement in lieu wholly or partly of pension benefits for ongoing service and or membership All the Executive Directors currently receive a cash supplement of Not performance related.
of the groups Defined Benefit or Defined Contribution pension scheme.
25% of base pay in lieu of all pension benefits.
Until 31 March 2016, John Davies was a member of the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme which offers 1 60th accrual and also received a cash supplement for earnings in excess of the applicable scheme earnings cap.
The cash supplement payable is set having regard to market practice, and in the context of the other elements of the remuneration package, notably base salary.
Other than in exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate employer contributions into a defined contribution pension scheme or cash in lieu of benefit as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 30% of base salary or, in the case of internal promotions to the Board or for Executive Directors subsequently leaving existing Group pension schemes, in excess of the cost to the Company as a percentage of base salary of their current pension provision.
Benefits Designed to be competitive in the A range of benefits are provided which may include life insurance: medical insurance: car and fuel Benefit values vary by role and are periodically reviewed and set Not performance related.
market in which the individual is benefits and allowances: home to work travel and related costs if agreed on an individual basis or if at a level which the Committee considers appropriate in light of employed or to meet costs effectively incurred at the request of the Company: accommodation benefits and related costs if based away relevant market practice for the role and individual circumstances.
incurred at the Companys request.
from home at the request of the Company: Board function-related costs: and, in certain The cost of the benefits provided changes in accordance with circumstances, cash allowances in respect of the tax charge on accommodation or travel market conditions and will, therefore, determine the maximum to work benefit if incurred at the request of the Company or with its prior approval.
amount that would be paid in the form of benefits during the Other benefits eg relocation may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable period of this policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to by the Committee.
approve a higher cost in certain circumstances eg relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 96 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Directors Remuneration Policy as approved at the AGM held on 21 July 2014 andupdated as explained on page101 below Summary of Babcocks remuneration policy for Executive Directors Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Should be at a level that is i fair and Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to the individuals role, experience and In respect of existing Executive Directors, it is anticipated Business and individual performance are considerations ii capable, when taken with the performance: salary levels at relevant comparators are considered but do not in themselves thatdecisions on any salary increases will be guided by the in setting base salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 97 Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Annual bonus To underpin delivery of year-on-year Performance targets are set at the start of the year and reflect the responsibilities of the executive Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary.
Performance is determined by the Committee on an annual financial performance and progress in relation to the delivery of our strategy.
basisby reference to Group and or divisional financial measures, For achievement of threshold, up to 15% of maximum bonus towards strategic non-financial eg EPS growth, PBIT, PBT, OCF, as well as the achievement of At the end of the year, the Committee determines the extent to which these targets have been isearned: for achievement of target up to 55% of maximum objectives, being structured to non-financial objectives.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the outcome up or down within the limits of bonus is earned.
motivate delivery against targets the plan for corporate transactions, unforeseen events, factors outside reasonable management The financial and personal strategic objectives are typically andachievement of stretching control, changes to business priorities or operational arrangements, to ensure targets represent and weighted 80% and 20% of maximum, respectively.
outperformance, whilst mindful remain a fair measure of performance.
In addition, the Committee considers health and safety The Committee retains discretion to vary the weightings -20% for of achievement of long-term performance and it may reduce or cancel any annual bonus otherwise payable if it considers it individual measures within the financial element at the start of each strategyand longer-term risks appropriate to do so in light of that performance.
year, to ensure alignment with the business priorities for the year.
At least 40% of annual bonus payments for Executive Directors must be deferred into awards over Measures used for the 2015 16 annual bonus and proposed for The requirement to defer a Company shares for three years under the DBMP.
Mandatory deferred bonus awards Deferred 2016 17 are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on substantial part of bonus into annual bonus are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves before the awards vest.
Babcock shares strengthens the link applies to unvested deferred annual bonuses if the accounts used to determine the bonus level to long-term sustainable growth.
have to be materially corrected or the Committee subsequently comes to a view that bonus year performance was materially worse than originally believed or will have material adverse impacts infuture years.
Deferred bonus matching plan DBMP To ensure that a substantial part of The Committee may grant performance-related matching awards to Executive Directors who are The maximum match would be 2 for 1 on any shares held Vesting of DBMP awards is subject to continued employment and the Directors short-term incentive granted deferred bonus awards.
under the DBMP up to a maximum of 200% of salary based on Company performance over a three year performance period.
rewards is exposed to the longermaximum voluntary investment.
For 2016 17 awards the current CEO Peter Rogers is the only Executive Director who will receive Awards in recent cycles have been based on the achievement of term impact of decision-making matching awards under the DBMP as the Committee no longer intends to make use of matching For each performance condition applying to matching awards, stretching EPS, TSR and or ROCE targets.
The Committee will and to further align their interests awards for continuing directors.
12.5% of the maximum award will vest for threshold performance.
review the performance measures, their weightings, and with shareholders.
performance targets annually to ensure continued alignment with Participants can make an investment including by voluntary extra deferral of bonus regardless of Company strategy.
Should the Committee make changes to the any annual bonus earned of up to 100% of salary including mandatory and voluntary investment.
measures, the weighting on EPS, TSR and ROCE combined will be Participants may make an additional voluntary investment of up to 40% of salary.
From 2016, not less than 66% of the total award.
this option will not be available to Executive Directors other than Peter Rogers in respect of his 2015 16 bonus.
Details of measures and targets used for specific DBMP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages An additional benefit is provided in cash or shares equal to dividends that would have been paid 111 and 116. over the vesting period on shares that vest.
The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the DBMP matching outcome in circumstances where application of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
Performance Share Plan PSP and Company Share Option Plan CSOP To incentivise delivery of top quartile The Remuneration Committee has the ability to grant nil-cost options or conditional share awards Maximum annual PSP awards of up to 200% of base pay.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and shareholder returns and earnings under the PSP, and may grant a portion of an award in CSOP options.
To date, the Remuneration Company performance over a three year performance period.
For each performance condition applying to an award, growth over the longer term.
Committee has only awarded nil-cost options and CSOP options to executives.
16.7% of the maximum award will vest for threshold performance.
Awards in recent cycles have been based on the achievement Long-term measures guard against The award levels and performance conditions on which vesting depends are reviewed from time to of stretching EPS and TSR targets.
However, 2016 17 PSP awards short-term steps being taken to time to ensure they remain appropriate.
will also include an element based on ROCE.
maximise annual rewards at the An additional benefit is provided in cash or shares equal to dividends that would have been paid The Committee will review the performance measures, their expense of future performance.
over the vesting period on shares that vest.
weightings, and performance targets annually to ensure continued alignment with Company strategy.
Should the Committee make Options may also be granted under the CSOP, an HMRC approved option scheme, which have an changes to the measures, the weighting on EPS and or TSR exercise price based on market price at the award date and can be linked to PSP awards as combined will be not less than 66% of the total award.
explained further on page 126, but are otherwise the same as for PSP awards.
Details of measures and targets used for specific PSP and CSOP The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the PSP outcome in circumstances grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on where strict application of the performance conditions would produce a result inconsistent with the pages 110 and 115.
All-employee plans Babcock Employee Share Plan To encourage employee ownership Open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Group companies.
Executive Directors are Participants can purchase shares up to the prevailing HMRC Not performance related.
limit at the time employees are invited to participate.
The plan is an HMRC approved share incentive plan that allows an employee to purchase shares The Company currently offers to match purchases made through the plan trustees out of pre-tax salary which, if held for periods of time approved by HMRC through the plan at the rate of 1 free matching share for currently three to five years, are taxed on a favourable basis.
The Company can match purchased shares with an award of free shares.
Matching shares are The matching rate is reviewed periodically, and any future offer forfeited if employees leave within three years of their award other than for good leaver reasons.
will be bound by the prevailing HMRC limit.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 98 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Annual bonus To underpin delivery of year-on-year Performance targets are set at the start of the year and reflect the responsibilities of the executive Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 99 Remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration Recruitment policy In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on size and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the candidates N A experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension Membership of pension scheme or salary supplement on a similar basis to N A other executives, as described in the policy table.
Benefits Provision of benefits on a similar basis to other executives, as described in the N A policy table.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table, and may be pro-rated for proportion of 150% of salary year served.
Deferred Bonus New appointees may participate in the DBMP on similar terms to other 200% of salary Matching Plan executives.
It is not intended tomake awards underthis Plan in 2016 17 for Executive Directors other than Peter Rogers.
Performance Share Plan New appointees may be granted awards under the PSP on similar terms 200% of salary and Company Share to other executives.
Option Plan CSOP All-employee plans New appointees may be granted awards under all-employee plans on similar As per Policy Table terms to other executives.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, the N A Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, time to vesting and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
In order to facilitate like-for-like compensatory awards on recruitment, the Committee may avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
Other recruitment events Internal promotion When appointing a new Executive Director by way of promotion from an N A internal role, the Committee will be consistent with the policy for external hires detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments, outstanding incentive awards and or pension arrangements prior to their promotion to Executive Director, the Company may honour those arrangements: however, where appropriate, these would be expected to transition over time to the arrangements as stated above.
Non-Executive Director When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee or Board N A will structure pay in line with the existing policy, namely a base fee in line with the current fee schedule, with additional fees for fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director and Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 100 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Minor updates to the approved Remuneration Policy The TSR performance measure is tested by reference to the Companys relative long-term share price performance against Updating and minor text changes have been made to this Policy suitable peers.
The Committee believes that the use of relative Report as compared to the text approved at the 2014 AGM to TSR provides strong alignment with shareholders interests by improve its readability and provide clarifications.
These include: incentivising management for the delivery of above-market clarification of malus provisions previously referred to as returns.
The TSR calculation would normally use a 12-month clawback in line with emerging consensus on terminology average for opening and closing share prices adjusted for updating of charts illustrating the balance of remuneration dividends paid during the period.
The Company feels that this for Executive Directors to be relevant for 2016 17 is the most appropriate period because a 12-month average ensures both that short-term market volatility is excluded and updating to reflect changes to how the policy is to be that for each company a 12-month period will capture the applied in 2016 17 impact of the announcement of results and payment of minor updates to reflect changes in Board membership dividends.
A shorter period would not capture all these events and other non-policy factual changes since 2014 and would not necessarily put all companies on an equal footing.
updating page references, references to year ends, The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion and other minor text changes of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong The remuneration policy approved at the Annual General financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Meeting held on 21 July 2014 is available on the Companys Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
com investors, together The Committee believes that ROCE reinforces the focus on with this Policy Report.
returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
Payments from existing awards and commitments It also provides good line of sight for management.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make any award or other commitment made prior to the approval adjustments to the calculation of short and long-term and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in performance outcomes in circumstances where application this report.
of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the Performance measure selection and approach to Companys remuneration principles.
Such circumstances may target setting include: changes in accounting standards, certain major The measures used under annual bonus schemes are selected corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special annually to reflect the Groups main strategic objectives for the dividends, corporate restructurings, acquisitions and disposals.
year and reflect both financial and non-financial priorities.
The Committee reviews the performance conditions for share Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, awards prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they remain taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and appropriate.
No material reduction in long-term incentive the economic environment in which the Company operates.
targets for future awards would be made without prior Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference consultation with our major shareholders.
points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
Differences between Executive Director and general The Committee considers at length the appropriate financial employee remuneration conditions and non-financial objectives to attach to annual The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of bonus awards and the financial targets to attach to share senior executives below the Board is consistent with that for the awards to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to our Executive Directors.
Senior executives generally participate in strategic objectives and aligned with shareholders interests the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with mindful of risk management: and ii fair by being suitably similar performance measures applied.
The remuneration policy stretching whilst realistic.
for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration The Committee believes that Total Shareholder Return TSR, philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the Underlying Earnings per Share EPS and Return on Capital wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other Employed ROCE continue to be effective measures of longemployees reflect local market practice and seniority of each term performance for the Company, providing a good role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for balance between shareholder value creation and line of different groups of employees will differ from the policy for sight for executives.
executives as set out above but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair having regard to such factors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 101 Remuneration report continued Balance of remuneration for Executive Directors as outlined in the Chairmans statement and later in the Annual Report on Remuneration, applied to base salaries as at 1 April The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future 2016.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the share price movements.
For this reason, were the PSP shares potential split between the different elements of remuneration or DBMP matching shares for the current Chief Executive to vest under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, in full, actual total remuneration may exceed the value shown in On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Babcocks remuneration policy and implementation in 2016 17, Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Peter Rogers 000 Franco Martinelli 000 International division Bill Tame 000 26% 32% 42% 1,996 27% 31% 42% 2,010 Maximum 19% 22% 59% 4,470 Maximum Maximum On-target 48% 32% 20% 1,725 On-target 52% 34% 14% 1,013 On-target 52% 34% 14% 1,027 Minimum 100% 840 Minimum 100% 526 Minimum 100% 540 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive, Archie Bethel 000 Support Services division John Davies 000 Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Maximum 27% 31% 2,620 Maximum 27% 31% 42% 1,951 42% Long-term incentives On-target 52% 34% 14% 1,332 On-target 53% 33% 14% 1,003 Minimum 100% 695 Minimum 100% 533 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 The Minimum scenario shows base salary, pension and or pay in lieu of pension and benefits ie fixed remuneration.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which are not at risk.
The On-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus a pay-out of 55% of the annual bonus and threshold vesting of 12.5% and 16.7% of the maximum award under the DBMP for Peter Rogers only and PSP, respectively.
All scenarios assume full voluntary investment under the DBMP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay-out of all incentives.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 102 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Details of Directors service contracts and exit payments and treatment of awards on a change of control The following summarises the key terms excluding remuneration of the Directors service contracts or terms of appointment: Executive Directors Name Date of service contract Notice period Peter Rogers Chief Executive 31 July 2003 amended by letters dated 12 months from Company, 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director Mr Rogers will be retiring from the Company on 31 August 2016.
Archie Bethel 1 April 2016 12 months from Company, Chief Operating Officer, becoming 12 months from Director Chief Executive on 1 September 2016 Franco Martinelli 1 August 2014 12 months from Company, Group Finance Director 12 months from Director Bill Tame 1 October 2001 amended by letters dated 12 months from Company, Chief Executive, International division 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director John Davies 20 December 2012 12 months from Company, Chief Executive, Support Services 12 months from Director The latest service contracts are available for inspection at the scheme of 150% in lieu of bonus and all other contractual Companys registered office and will also be available at the entitlements.
From this payment there is to be deducted any Companys Annual General Meeting.
amount that the Executive Director receives by way of income, if it exceeds 10% of his Babcock salary, from other sources that The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service he would not have been able to earn had he continued in contracts should be capable of being terminated by the employment with the Company.
Company on not more than 12 months notice.
The Executive Directors service contracts entitle the Company to terminate The contracts for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not for Archie their employment without notice by making a payment of salary Bethel, John Davies and Franco Martinelli also provide that if the and benefits in lieu of notice.
In these circumstances, since 2012, Company terminates their appointment within 12 months of a new Executive Director contracts those for Archie Bethel, change of control, they would be entitled to a termination John Davies and Franco Martinelli allow the Company to payment equal to 100% of annual salary plus 40% in lieu of choose to make the payment in lieu by monthly instalments bonus and all other benefits, subject to any additional and mitigation applies such that the Committee may decide to entitlement as outlined below.
reduce or discontinue further instalments.
For contracts made In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment before 2012 namely those for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame on termination set out above, the Companys incentive plans such a payment would be by way of a lump sum payment on contain provisions for termination of employment, where the termination.
If the Company terminates an Executive Directors Committee has the discretion to determine the level of service contract it will have regard to all the circumstances award vesting.
including the scope for mitigation and the Companys interests in determining the amount of compensation, if any, payable to him in connection with that termination.
The contracts for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not for Archie Bethel, John Davies and Franco Martinelli contain provisions which provide that within 90 days of the occurrence of a change of control of the Company, each may terminate his employment forthwith.
If he exercises this right, he is entitled, for a 12-month period, to be paid on a monthly basis his base salary plus 40% compared to a maximum entitlement under the annual bonus Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 103 Remuneration report continued 2 Component Treatment on a change of control Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus Will be paid a time pro-rated Will be paid a time pro-rated No annual bonus proportion, subject to performance proportion, subject to performance entitlement, unless the during the year, generally paid during the year, generally paid Committee exercises immediately, with Committee immediately, with Committee discretion to treat otherwise 1 discretion to treat otherwise discretion to treat otherwise PSP, CSOP, DBP and DBMP Awards generally vest immediately, Entitled to retain a time pro-rated Outstanding awards are mandatorily deferred bonus and, for performance-related proportion, which remains subject forfeited, unless the awards and matching awards awards, will be pro-rated for time to performance conditions.
Committee exercises and remain subject to performance Committee has discretion to allow discretion to treat otherwise conditions, with Committee immediate vesting and or more discretion to treat otherwise than time pro-rated vesting 1.
Treatment of bonus on a change of control for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame is also subject of the provisions outlined on page 103 and above.
An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they leave the Groups employment by reason of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement in each case evidenced to the Committees satisfaction.
The treatment of share awards held by Directors who leave on other grounds is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and in deciding whether and the extent to which it would be appropriate to exercise that discretion the Committee will have regard to all the circumstances.
The Committee has discretion to allow awards held by leavers to vest immediately and or in full or for a good leaver or on a change of control at a higher proportion than strict time-apportionment if it considers this to be appropriate.
In deciding how to exercise its discretion the Committee will take account of all the circumstances arising including, in the case of a leaver, the reasons for and circumstances of the termination of employment, the leavers length of service, level of responsibility and business impact, individual performance during their tenure, exceptional contribution to the business and the extent to which that contribution is expected to still have an impact during the remainder of the applicable performance period.
The Committee may also make any favourable exercise of its discretion subject to conditions.
Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least twice the Executive Directors annual base salary three times for the CEO.
The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to retain at least half of any shares acquired on the exercise of a share award that remain after the sale of sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance triggered by the exercise and associated dealing costs until the guideline level is achieved and thereafter maintained.
The Executive Directors compliance with these guidelines is shown in the table on page 120.
External appointments of Executive Directors The Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman, provided that such appointments do not prejudice the individuals ability to fulfil their duties at the Group.
Any fees for outside appointments are retained by the Director.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Anticipated expiry of present term of Date of appointment Date of current appointment subject Name as a Director appointment letters to annual re-election Mike Turner Chairman 1 June 2008 20 March 2014 AGM 2017 Sir David Omand 1 April 2009 26 March 2015 AGM 2018 Ian Duncan 10 November 2010 25 January 2016 AGM 2019 Anna Stewart 1 November 2012 26 March 2015 AGM 2018 Jeff Randall 1 April 2014 6 December 2013 AGM 2017 Myles Lee 1 April 2015 3 March 2015 AGM 2018 Victoire fide Margerie 1 February 2016 3 December 2015 AGM 2019 Details of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are The latest written terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the shown in the table.
The appointment and re-appointment and Companys Annual General Meeting.
The expected time the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters commitment of Non-Executive Directors is set out in their reserved for the Nominations Committee and Executive current written terms of appointment.
The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to appointment as detailed in the table above, normally for no reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in more than three-year terms at a time: however, in all cases order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its appointments are terminable at will at any time by the Company Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to or the Director.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual participate in the Companys performance-related incentive re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 104 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance measures To attract and retain Fee levels are reviewed against market Non-Executive Director fee increases None high-calibre Non-Executive practice from time to time by the are applied in line with the outcome Directors with commercial Chairman and the Executive Directors of the periodic fee review and other experience in the case of Non-Executive Director Any increases to the Non-Executive relevant to the Company fees and by the Remuneration Director fee will typically be in line Committee in respect of fees with general movements in market payable to the Chairman, with any levels of Non-Executive Director fees adjustments normally being made on In the event that there is a material 1 April in the review year misalignment with the market Additional fees are payable for acting or achange in the complexity, as Chairman of the Audit and Risk, and responsibility or time commitment Remuneration Committees required to fulfil a Non-Executive Fee levels are reviewed by reference Director role, the Board has discretion to FTSE listed companies of similar size to make an appropriate adjustment to and complexity.
Time commitment, the fee level level of involvement required and responsibility are taken into account when reviewing fee levels Fees for the year ending 31 March 2016 and those for the year ending 31 March 2017 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 118.
Consideration of employee views Consideration of shareholder views When reviewing Executive Director pay the Committee is aware When determining remuneration, the Committee takes of the proposals for review of remuneration of all employees.
into account views of leading shareholders and best The Committee receives regular updates on salary increases, practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
bonus and share awards made to employees throughout the The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders Group.
These matters are considered when conducting the on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to annual review of executive remuneration.
undergoing consultation with leading shareholders in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments with employee representative bodies as part of its employee in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company Further detail on the votes received on the 2015 Directors operates.
The Company now formally presents a summary of its Remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report on policy for remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors Remuneration on page 107. to the Babcock Employee Forum, which is attended by representatives from across the UK business operations, and will consider any feedback from that Forum.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 105 Remuneration report continued How often it meets Annual Report on Remuneration In total there were seven meetings in the year to 31 March 2016.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee plans to meet at least six times in the year to The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board 31 March 2017. on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and, Matters considered in accordance with provision D 2.1 of the UK Corporate The Committee considered a number of matters during the year Governance Code, the Committee is made up of the to 31 March 2016, including: independent Non-Executive Directors.
The membership of the appropriate leaving terms for two retiring executive directors: Committee currently and during the year to 31 March 2016 Peter Rogers and Kevin Thomas with each member serving throughout the year unless otherwise stated as well as attendance at Committee meetings terms of the remuneration package for Archie Bethel as in the year is shown below.
The Company Secretary is Secretary Chief Operating Officer from 1st April 2016 and potential to the Committee.
salary, from 1 September 2016, as the new Chief Executive changes to executive director remuneration arrangements Committee attendance for 2016 17 in light of changes to the management team, Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible including removal of deferred bonus matching arrangements Member Year to 31 March 2016 for executive directors under the DBMP as explained in the Jeff Randall 7 7 Chairmans Annual Statement on pages 92 to 95 Sir David Omand 7 7 seeking views of our largest shareholders and investor bodies Ian Duncan 7 7 in advance of implementing changes to remuneration arrangements for 2016 17 Anna Stewart 7 7 the Committees terms of reference Myles Lee 7 7 1 Victoire fide Margerie 1 2 trends in executive remuneration, remuneration governance 2 and investor views Kate Swann 4 4 initial consideration of possible changes to remuneration 1.
Victoire fide Margerie joined the Board and the Remuneration policy toput to the AGM in 2017 Committee on 1 February 2016.
She was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing engagement.
the making of share awards under the Companys share plans 2.
Kate Swann retired from the Board and the Committee on and the performance measures and targets to be applied 31 December 2015 the finalisation of performance targets and non-financial The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend objectives for the 2015 16 annual bonus scheme meetings by invitation, as does the Group Finance Director on the level of vesting of PSP and CSOP awards granted in 2012 occasion, but they are not present when their own remuneration the vesting of DBP and DBMP awards made in 2013 and is being decided.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as 2012 respectively Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Director of Organisation the level of annual bonuses to be paid for the year to 31 March and Development also attends meetings.
2015 in light of financial and non-financial measures applying Advisers setting of annual bonus financial targets and non-financial Kepler, a brand of Mercer which is part of the MMC group of objectives for the year to 31 March 2017 companies, was appointed by the Committee in late 2008, following a selection process including interviewing a number of review of share ownership guidelines for senior executives candidate firms, to provide it with objective and independent pay reviews for other senior executives for the year to analysis, information and advice on all aspects of executive 31 March 2017 remuneration and market practice, within the context of the review of the Babcock Directors Remuneration report objectives and policy set by the Committee.
Kepler reports approval of procedure for the authorisation of Chairman directly to the Committee Chairman.
A representative from and CEO expenses Kepler typically attends Committee meetings.
Kepler also provides participant communications, performance reporting, review of the continued appointment of the Committees and non-executive directors fee benchmarking services to the independent advisers.
Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for consultants to remuneration committees of UK listed companies, details of which can be found at www.
Kepler adheres to this Code of Conduct.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work for the Committee carried out in the year under review totalled 113,816 on the basis of time and materials, excluding expenses and VAT.
The Committee reviews Keplers involvement each year and considers any other relationships that Keplers parent company has with Babcock that may limit their independence.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Kepler is objective and independent and that any services provided by their parent to the Company do not impair their independence.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 106 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Summary of shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder vote on the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2015 AGM, and the results of the binding shareholder vote on the 2014 Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM: 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 2014 Remuneration Policy Votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 372,308,190 97.3% 322,568,767 98.9% Against 10,431,204 2.7% 3,734,746 1.1% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 382,739,394 100% 326,303,513 100% Votes withheld 11,342,943 38,245,712 Total votes cast including withheld votes 394,082,337 364,549,225 The Committee is pleased to note the high level of shareholder support for both the Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM and Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee will continue to engage with its major shareholders to facilitate a better understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into the Groups executive remuneration policy.
The Committee Chairman spoke and or wrote to a number of the Companys leading shareholders and investor bodies the Investment Association, Institutional Shareholder Services and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association about the proposed implementation of the approved remuneration policy for 2016 17 as described in the Chairmans Annual Statement on page 92, and elsewhere in this report, and more generally to garner their views on the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the years ending 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015.
The figures in the table above for 2015 16 are for the period 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015, pro-rated in the case of salary, annual bonus and benefits.
The full values of long-term incentives vesting on performance to 31 March 2016 are included.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1.
Salary: basic salary amount paid in the year.
Benefits in kind and cash: the value of benefits and salary supplements other than those in lieu of pensions including medical insurance, home to work travel expenses incurred at the request of the Company,  benefits, car and fuel benefits and costs in connection with accommodation.
Pension: for Peter Rogers, Bill Tame, Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas, the numbers above represent for each year the value of the cash supplement of 25% of salary paid to each of them in both years: for John Davies they represent for each year i 20 times the increase in accrued benefit over the year in question less his contributions, plus ii a cash supplement of 36k: and for Franco Martinelli they represent, for the pro-rated period from his appointment as a director on 1 August 2014 to 31 March 2015: i 20 times the increase in accrued benefit over the year, less his contributions, plus ii the value of a cash supplement of 10k: and for the year to 31 March 2016 his having ceased to participate in the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme as an active member from 1 April 2015, a cash supplement of 25% of salary.
Annual bonus cash or voluntarily deferred bonus : this is the part of total annual bonus earned for performance during the year see page 109 that is not required to be mandatorily deferred into a basic award of shares under the DBMP see page 110 and that is to be satisfied in cash and or, if the Director has so elected, by the making of a voluntary deferral into an award of shares under the DBMP.
DBMP deferred annual bonus: this is the mandatorily deferred element of the annual bonus earned for performance during the year, which will vest after three years.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 107 Remuneration report continued 6.
DBMP matching awards : the market value of awards that vest on performance to i 31 March 2016: based on vesting as to 58.8% of the total award see page112 and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2016 of 930p and ii 31 March 2015: based on vesting as to 88.4%.
Note: the difference between the 2014 15 DBMP figures in the table above and the equivalent numbers disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects truing up for the actual share price on subsequent actual vesting on 16 July 2015 of 1,111p.
PSP: the market value of awards that vest on performance to i 31 March 2016: based on vesting as to 38.7% of the total award see page 112 and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2016 of 930p and ii 31 March 2015: based on vesting as to 83.5% and a vesting date share price on 15 June 2015 of 1,121p and on 16 July 2015 of 1,111p for a portion of Peter Rogers PSP award.
Note: the difference between the 2014 15 PSP figures in the table above and the equivalent numbers disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects truing up for the actual share price and dividends accrued on subsequent actual vesting.
Dividends: the total value of dividends accruing on long-term incentive awards other than on mandatory and voluntary deferral of bonus awards under the DBMP DBP vesting on performance to i 31 March 2016 and ii 31 March 2015, payable in cash on exercise of the award.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2016 and the prior year: Base fee 000 Additional fees 000 Total 000 15 16 14 15 15 16 14 15 15 16 14 15 Mike Turner 310 295 0 0 310 295 4 Jeff Randall 58 55 15 9 73 64 Sir David Omand 69 65 0 0 69 65 4 Ian Duncan 58 55 15 13 73 68 1 Kate Swann 44 55 0 0 58 55 Anna Stewart 58 55 0 0 58 55 2 Myles Lee 62 N A 0 N A 62 N A 3 Victoire fide Margerie 10 N A 0 N A 10 N A 1.
Retired from the Board on 31 December 2015: figure for 2015 16 is for the period 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015.
Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2016.
Relating to Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee Ian Duncan, and Remuneration Committee Jeff Randall.
Pension entitlements under the Scheme defined benefit for the Pensions year to 31 March 2016 are set out in the following table: The Executive Directors, other than John Davies, did not participate in a Group pension scheme or otherwise receive Accrued pension at 31 March pension benefits from the Group for service during the year to 2016 Normal 31 March 2016.
These Executive Directors received a cash 1 Director pa retirement date supplement equal to 25% of their base salary in lieu of pension 2 Bill Tame 50,274 60 benefits.
There are no additional early retirement benefits.
2 Archie Bethel 39,950 65 John Davies was a member of the Babcock International 2,3 Kevin Thomas 64,168 65 Group Pension Scheme until 31 March 2016.
During the year John Davies 57,302 65 to 31 March 2016, John Davies received a cash supplement of 2 Franco Martinelli 58,981 65 36,000 in lieu of pension benefits on that part of his salary as exceeded the applicable scheme earnings cap.
Date from which payment can be drawn with no actuarial reduction.
Supplements paid in lieu of pension do not count for pension, 2.
Bill Tame, Archie Bethel, Kevin Thomas and Franco Martinelli were not share award or bonus purposes.
active members of the scheme during the year.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Board on 31 December 2015 and Babcock International Group Pension Scheme retired as a full-time executive on 31 March 2016.
The figure for him the Scheme audited above is the amount accruedat 31 March 2016.
Bill Tame was an active member of the senior executive tier Note: The figures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of of the Scheme until 30 September 2011.
Archie Bethel and death in service benefits under the Scheme, or for any benefits in respect Kevin Thomas were active members of the executive tier of of earnings in excess of the earnings cap.
In calculating the above figures the Scheme until 31 March 2012.
Franco Martinelli was an no account has been taken of any retained benefits that the Director may have from previous employments.
active member of the executive tier of the Scheme until 31 March 2015.
Whilst still members of the Scheme, Bill Tame Directors also benefit from life assurance cover of four times accrued benefits at the rate of one-thirtieth, and for Archie base salary.
The cost of providing that life assurance cover was: Bethel, Kevin Thomas and Franco Martinelli the rate of accrual 2015 16 2014 15 was one-forty-fifth, of pensionable salary for each year of service, Director 000 000 with a cash supplement on earnings over the applicable scheme Bill Tame 3 2 earnings cap.
Until 31 March 2016, John Davies was a member Archie Bethel 2 2 of the VT Upper Section Ex-Short Brothers section of the Scheme.
1 Kevin Thomas 2 2 In the year to 31 March 2016, he accrued benefits on earnings up to the scheme earnings cap for the year to 31 March 2016, John Davies 2 2 2 149,400 at the rate of one-sixtieth of pensionable salary for Franco Martinelli 2 1 each year of service.
From 1 April 2016, John Davies has ceased 1.
Pro rata amount for the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 December to be an active member of the Scheme and now receives a cash 2015, the date of his retirement from the Board.
supplement equal to 25% of his salary in line with the other 2.
Pro rata amount for the period from his appointment as a director on Executive Directors.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 108 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Annual Bonus Scheme 2015 16 Annual bonus audited For our Executive Directors annual bonus schemes in 2015 16, as in previous years, a mix of financial and non-financial measures was used.
The non-financial measures were principally based on the key themes that the Committee considers to be of material importance to the continued success of the Company.
Objectives for the 2015 16 bonus were set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
The table below sets out the annual bonus schemes in place for the Executive Directors and the outturn under them in 2015 16.
The figures in the table below for actual outturn excludes the effect of changes in exchange rates.
Threshold Maximum Actual Peter Franco Archie Kevin John Bonus element target target outturn Rogers Martinelli Bill Tame Bethel Thomas Davies 1 EPS performance 73.1p 77.1p 74.7p Maximum potential 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% Stretching targets, with % of salary a sliding scale between Outturn 33.5% 33.5% 33.5% 33.5% 0% 33.5% threshold and maximum % of salary Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget 400.5m Maximum potential 15% 15% Group cash flow budget 329.9m % of salary Outturn 15% 15% % of salary Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget 463.5m Maximum potential 15% 15% 2,3 Group PBT budget 467.9m % of salary Outturn 12% 12% % of salary 4 Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget Maximum potential 15% 15% 15% 15% 3 Divisional cash flow budget % of salary Outturn 15% 15% 0% 15% % of salary 4 Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget Maximum potential 15% 15% 15% 15% 2,3 Divisional PBIT budget % of salary Outturn 0% 14.3% 0% 14% % of salary 5 Non-financial objectives Maximum potential 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% % of salary Outturn 30% 30% 30% 30% 0% 30% % of salary Total Maximum potential 150% 150% 150% 150% 150% 150% % of salary Outturn 90.5% 90.5% 78.5% 92.7% 0% 92.5% % of salary 1.
Threshold vesting is 20% of maximum for each financial bonus element except for EPS performance, where 18% of maximum vests at threshold.
In line with our policy, overall vesting at threshold is no more than 15% when all measures are taken into account.
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The treatment of exceptional items is at the discretion of the Committee.
The bonus element for John Davies in respect of divisional financial targets applicable to the scheme is based on the targets set in respect of Defenceand Security, where he was Chief Executive for the greater part of the financial year.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the divisional budgets remain commercially sensitive given the strategic nature of some of our customers or their activities and they would also be of assistance to competitors, and will not be published.
Non-financial objectives are set around the strategic and risk management 'Themes', which for the year were Reputation: Growth: Employees: and Processes.
Within these Themes are then areas of 'Focus' and for each such area there are a number of more detailed 'Indicators' relating to specific matters that fall within that area of Focus.
The scheme does not ascribe fixed amounts of potential bonus to particular Themes, areas of Focus or Indicators as directors are expected to respond to changing internal or external priorities, conditions or developments within those areas over the year in the best interests of the Group without being tied to or having to have regard to a set of objectives that were framed before the year got underway.
At the end of the bonus year, the Committee reviews progress against the Themes, Focuses and Indicators overall having regard to all relevant circumstances and makes an assessment as to performance on non-financial measures and what the appropriate bonus payment, if any, would be for that.
The actual 'Indicators' used each year are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive as they tend to be ongoing in nature, relating as they do to customer relationships, specific bids, specific strategic steps or objectives, security measures and personnel matters.
By way of example, areas of focus will typically include maintenance and development of reputation with customers and investors, including specified improved strategic and customer engagement and key relationship objectives: ethical training and compliance : growth relating to strategy planning and business development steps and positioning, progress against existing strategic plans, particularly for territories outside the UK, specific bidding or market targets and objectives, development and leveraging of identified strategic partnerships, organisational and management changes to support growth and strategic objectives : employee development and engagement communications and cultural initiatives, diversity: talent identification, development and succession planning initiatives and programmes: development of graduate and apprentice recruitment and development of the groups relationships with universities : process improvements development of IT strategy, upgrading and development of resource planning and management information systems, cyber-security and information assurance objectives.
Additionally, Health and Safety performance is an overriding underpin to all elements of the annual bonus scheme allowing the Committee to reduce or withhold entirely any bonus otherwise payable if it considers such performance to have been unsatisfactory.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 109 Remuneration report continued Annual bonus deferral into shares audited The Committee granted performance-related matching To ensure that a substantial part of the Directors annual bonus awardsunder the DBMP to Directors on the amount of bonus is exposed to the longer term impact of decision-making and for 2014 15 mandatorily or voluntarily deferred into share further to align their interests with shareholders, 40% of any awards under that scheme.
As part of the restructuring of annual bonus earned by Executive Directors and other senior Executive Director remuneration arrangements discussed in the executives must be deferred into Babcock shares by means of Chairmans Annual Statement on page 93, no further matching an award of nil-cost options.
awards under the DBMP will be granted to Executive Directors, with the exception of Peter Rogers in respect of his deferred Since 2012, deferred awards have been made to Directors bonus for 2015 16. under the Deferred Bonus Matching Plan DBMP under which the deferral period is three years.
In addition to the mandatory The performance conditions relating to matching awards made deferral of 40% of bonus the DBMP allows for Directors to be in 2015 and those proposed for matching awards to be made to invited to make a voluntary additional investment including by Peter Rogers and other below-Board participants in 2016 are way of accepting deferral of extra amounts of bonus of an discussed on pages111 and 112.
Mandatorily deferred annual amount equal to up to 40% of salary.
Both mandatorily deferred bonus awards Basic Awards and Matching Awards under the and voluntary investments are eligible, subject to Committee DBMP are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves discretion, for performance-based matching share awards of before the awards vest other than by reason of death, disability, up to a 2 for 1 match.
redundancy, retirement or the company or business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group.
Long-term incentive schemes PSP and DBMP PSP awards made in 2015 16 audited % receivable for End of Face value Face value threshold performance 1 2 Director Basis % of salary performance period Peter Rogers 1,285,690 200% 16.7% 31 March 2018 Franco Martinelli 530,782 150% 16.7% 31 March 2018 As per the Policy.
Based for directors on 3 day average share price of 1,141p at time of grant.
Expressed as a percentage of salary at the date of the award.
Kevin Thomas retired as a director on 31 December 2015.
In the form of nil-cost options.
The performance targets that were attached to these awards split equally between TSR performance relative to the peer group and real EPS growth are illustrated in the charts below: Note: TSR comparators are the companies comprised in the FTSE 350 excluding EPS element TSR element investment trusts and financial services 50% of award 50% of award companies.
As reported in the Remuneration Report for the year to 31 March 2015, the Committee decided, for awards going forward, 100% 100% having regard to the low inflation environment and the increasingly international nature of the Companys business, to measure growth in EPS in absolute terms and not, as in previous years, 75% 75% as growth in excess of the UK Retail Prices Index.
Threshold vesting 16.7% of this element for the EPS element was set at growth of 4% per annum and maximum vesting at 50% 50% growth of 11% per annum.
We believe that growth of 11% would represent exceptional performance.
For the comparative TSR 25% 25% element, threshold vesting 16.7% of this 16.7% 16.7% element would be for performance in line with the median of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services 0% 0% companies and maximum vesting would be for 4% 11% Median Median 9% 9% pa outperformance of the median, representing upper quartile performance.
Babcocks three-year annualised EPS growth % pa Babcocks three-year TSR out-performance of FTSE 350 Median % pa Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 110 % of EPS element % of TSR element Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Deferred Bonus Plan awards made in 2015 16 audited Face value % receivable End of Face value forthreshold performance 1 2 Director Basis % of salary performance period Peter Rogers 532,128 83% n a n a Franco Martinelli 114,579 32% n a n a As per the Policy.
Bill Tame 183,359 46% n a n a No additional performance conditions required for Archie Bethel 264,050 75% n a n a 3 vesting.
Based for directors onthree day average share price of 1,141p at time of grant.
Expressed as a percentage of salary at the date of award.
Deferred Bonus Matching Plan awards made in 2015 16 audited % receivable for End of Face value Face value threshold performance 1 2 Director Basis % of salary performance period Peter Rogers 1,064,256 166% 12.5% 31 March 2018 Franco Martinelli 229,158 65% 12.5% 31 March 2018 As per the Policy.
The DBMP allows the Committee to make matching share awards of up to two times the deferred bonus shares 40% of bonus and any additional shares or extra bonus deferral self-invested under the scheme by the Director of an amount equal to up to 40% of salary.
The matching share award is performance-related and only vests to the extent that the performance criteria are met in respect of the three-year performance period.
For the 2015 cycle, the performance period runs from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2018, the same as for PSP awards made in 2015.
The performance targets attached to those matching awards split equally between TSR performance relative to the peer group, EPS growth, and return on capital employed ROCE are illustrated in the charts below: EPS element TSR element ROCE element 33% of award 33% of award 33% of award 2x 2x 2x 1.5x 1.5x 1.5x 1x 1x 1x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 0.25x 0.25x 0.25x 0x 0x 0x 4% 11% Median Median 9% 12% 15% Babcocks three-year annualised EPS growth % pa Babcocks three-year TSR out-performance of Babcocks three-year average ROCE % FTSE 350 Median % pa Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 111 Match on EPS element Match on TSR element Match on ROCE element Remuneration report continued The target for maximum vesting of these awards was set as ROCE of 15% and for threshold vesting it is 12%.
The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held under the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each such share at threshold vesting.
Therefore, for each measure, threshold vesting would be a 0.25 3 for 1 match 4.2% of maximum and maximum vesting would be a 2 3 for 1 match 33% of maximum.
For 2015 16 Executive Directors received awards in lieu of mandatorily and voluntarily deferred bonus and matching awards in respect of the 2014 15 bonus as follows: Deferred annual bonus Total shares invested Potential Maximum mandatorily deferred Voluntarily Deferral in the DBMP in number of matching Director bonus no of shares Awards no of shares 2015 16 shares Peter Rogers 25,187 21,450 46,637 93,274 Franco Martinelli 10,042 10,042 20,084 Bill Tame 16,070 16,070 32,140 Archie Bethel 12,187 10,955 23,142 46,284 1 Kevin Thomas 11,102 11,102 22,204 John Davies 11,785 7,366 19,151 38,302 1.
2013 PSP awards vesting audited 2013 DBMP awards vesting audited Awards granted in 2013 under the PSP were subject to 3-year Awards granted in 2013 under the DBMP were subject to the TSR and EPS targets outlined on page 115.
Performance against 3-year TSR, EPS and average ROCE targets outlined on page 116. these measures, and resulting vesting, is as follows: The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held under the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each such % weighting % of each on each element share at threshold vesting.
Performance against these measures, element vesting and resulting vesting, is as follows: Outcome of 2.4% pa below 50% 0% % weighting Match 3-year TSR to medianTSR for the on each on each element element 31 March 2016 FTSE350 excluding investment trusts and Outcome of 2.4% pa below 33% 0x financial services 3-year TSR to median TSR for the 31 March 2016 FTSE350 excluding Outcome of 9.1% pa in excess of RPI 50% 77.5% investment trusts and 3-year adjusted historical EPS numbers financial services basic underlying were restated to ensure EPS growth to they were on the same Outcome of 9.1% pa in excess 33% 1.53x 31 March 2016 accounting basis 3-year adjusted of RPI historical basic underlying EPS numbers 2013 PSP awards expected to vest to 38.7% EPS growth to wererestated to Executive Directors in June 2016: 31 March 2016 ensure they were onthe same accounting basis Number expected Outcome of 3-year 25.0% 33% 2x Director Award to vest average ROCE Peter Rogers PSP 2013 45,673 Match expected on 2013 DBMP awards for 1.18 1 Franco Martinelli PSP 2013 12,092 Executive Directors on vesting in June 2016: Bill Tame PSP 2013 21,684 Archie Bethel PSP 2013 18,855 2 Number Kevin Thomas PSP 2013 18,855 expected John Davies PSP 2013 18,016 Director Award to vest Peter Rogers DBMP 2013 63,281 1.
Franco Martinellis awards were made prior to his appointment 1 asadirector.
Franco Martinellis award was made prior to his appointment as adirector.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 112 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Sourcing of shares As part of the restructuring of remuneration arrangements Shares needed to satisfy share awards for Directors are either associated with changes to the management team which is fresh issue shares issued to the Groups employee share trusts more fully described on page 93 in the Chairmans Annual to meet share awards or shares purchased in the market by Statement and elsewhere in this Report, the Committee has the trusts using funds advanced by the Company.
The source more closely aligned the remuneration packages for continuing selection is finalised on or before vesting, the choice being based Executive Directors with market by ceasing to grant matching on what the Board considers to be in the best interests of the awards to continuing Executive Directors under the DBMP, Company at the time, and what is permissible within available moving salaries closer to market median and increasing the PSP headroom and dilution limits.
opportunity within the limits prescribed in our approved policy, to help support recruitment and retention whilst maintaining Executive Directors remuneration for 2016 17 broadly the fair value of Executive Director total remuneration In light of the changes to our management team, and having for those whose roles are unchanged and delivering pay in line in mind shareholder views on remuneration arrangements, with our policy.
As part of this review of remuneration including requests for less complexity, the Remuneration arrangements, the Committee determined the following base Committee has considered carefully how best to apply our salaries for 2016 17 for Executive Directors.
policy for remuneration for executive directors in 2016 17.
Salary Salary Having sounded out the views of leading shareholders, 2016 17 2015 16 the Committee has taken this opportunity to remove matching share awards going forward for Executive Directors under the Peter Rogers 660,000 642,850 DBMP for continuing directors, align the remuneration Franco Martinelli 420,000 353,861 packages for Executive Directors more closely with market by Bill Tame 420,000 397,014 moving salaries closer to market median, and increase the PSP Archie Bethel opportunity within the limits prescribed in our approved policy, as Chief Operating Officer 550,000 N A to help support recruitment and retention whilst being true to our policy.
As set out in the Chairmans Annual Statement on Archie Bethel as Chief Executive, page 93, remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors Marineand Technology N A 353,861 in 2016 17 comprise the following: 1 Kevin Thomas N A 353,861 2 a move to more market competitive salary other than for John Davies as Chief Executive the outgoing CEO, Peter Rogers, who is participating in a Support Services 405,000 N A 2 final time pro-rated DBMP matching opportunity in 2016 John Davies as Chief Executive Defenceand Security N A 338,101 annual bonus awards of up to 150% of salary, operated using a similar structure as in 2015 16.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Board on 31 December 2015. to be mandatorily deferred into shares for 3 years The figure for 2015 16 above is that implied for a full year of service as a director.
removal of DBMP matching arrangements other than for Peter Rogers, as above 2.
Salary reflects that he receives car and fuel benefits.
PSP awards of 200% for all executive directors, based on TSR, The salary increase for the Chief Executive, International division EPS and ROCE, equally weighted of 5.8% reflects the fact that the current fair value of his total remuneration was already closer to being appropriately pension and benefit arrangements as outlined above for positioned, whereas the Group Finance Directors salary 2015 16 increase of 18.7% reflects the fact that the fair value of his total This structure is described in more detail below.
remuneration was significantly below market.
Salary increases for the Chief Operating Officer and the new Chief Executive, Base salary Support Services reflect both additional responsibilities and a Executive Directors base salaries and benefits are reviewed move closer to market median.
each year with any changes usually taking effect from 1 April.
Babcocks remuneration policy is pitched to deliver fixed As Peter Rogers, current Chief Executive, will be retiring shortly remuneration at or below median and total remuneration we have simply increased his salary effective 1 April 2016 by capable of delivering upper quartile reward for upper quartile 2.7% within the range of increases for the wider UK Babcock performance.
However, senior executive salaries have not kept employee population and are making no changes to his current pace with market or with the increased responsibilities in incentive arrangements.
managing what is now a significantly larger and more complex Leading shareholders consulted on the above proposals were business than it wasfive years ago.
Executive Directors 2015 16 broadly supportive of this approach to simplification of base salaries were positioned on average c 20% behind market, remuneration arrangements, and acknowledged the need to while total remuneration was approximately aligned with market rebalance remuneration as a result of the removal of the DBMP.
on a fair value basis other than for the Group Finance Director whose package was c 15% below market.
Having Executive Archie Bethel will take over as Chief Executive on 1 September Director salaries so significantly below market also affects 2016, at which point the Remuneration Committee will once remuneration for other senior staff and we were concerned that again review his salary and set it to be at an appropriate level for this does, and will increasingly, affect our ability to recruit and the role.
Subject to further review at the time, the Committee is retain talent both at and below Board level.
minded to appoint Archie Bethel as CEO on a salary of c 750k, which would remain below market median and would represent a reduction in total remuneration for the role.
The final approved salary will be disclosed in next year's remuneration report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 113 Remuneration report continued Internal relativity PSP and DBMP awards for 2016 17 As noted in our Remuneration policy, when reviewing As discussed earlier in this report, with the exception of Peter Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes note Rogers, who will continue to participate in a final cycle of of proposals for pay in the wider Group.
Each business within matching awards under the DBMP in 2016 17, the Committee the Group determines its own pay structures and remuneration intends to cease granting matching awards to Executive in light of its own position and the employment market in which Directors.
The DBMP currently allows for a performance-based it operates.
matching award of two shares for each share mandatorily or voluntarily invested, which is worth up to 200% of salary based The overall average salary increase for employees in the UK on the maximum permitted investment of 100% of salary.
generally for the year to 31 March 2017 is expected to be in Having removed this matching opportunity for Executive the range of 2 to 3% with individual increases significantly Directors for 2016 17, the Committee intends to increase the above this amount in some cases dependent on business and PSP award opportunity for all Directors other than Peter Rogers personal performance and local market conditions.
by 50% of salary and has made some fairly significant changes to However, as explained on page93 in the Chairmans Annual base salaries in order to ensure that the fair value of Executive Statement and elsewhere in this Report, the Committee has Director total remuneration is broadly maintained for those restructured the continuing Executive Directors overall whose roles are unchanged.
remuneration packages, within the scope of its Remuneration Since adoption in 2012, DBMP matching awards have included Policy, and part of that restructuring involved the making of a ROCE performance measure alongside TSR and EPS, whilst PSP significant increases this year in base salaries, but that broadly awards have been made based on an equal weighting of TSR maintain the fair value of total remuneration.
The Committee considers that ROCE continues 2016 17 Annual bonus to be an effective measure of long-term performance and that For our Executive Directors annual bonus schemes for 2016 17 it reinforces the focus on returns for shareholders, encourages we are continuing to use the structure adopted in 2015 16 as capital discipline and provides good line of sight for management.
The Committee intends to disclose the Therefore, in order to retain a weighting on ROCE in Babcocks Group financial performance targets for 2016 17 and personal long-term incentives following the elimination of matching awards objectives retrospectively in next years Annual Report on under the DBMP, we plan to use ROCE, TSR and EPS equally Remuneration, subject to these no longer being considered by weighted as performance measures for the PSP awards to be the Board to be commercially sensitive.
The weighting of the made in 2016 17. elements of bonus is kept under review.
The Committee intends to grant awards in 2016 17 under the For all Executive Directors, 40% of any earned bonus will PSP of 200% of salary for all Executive Directors, with the continue to be deferred into shares forthree years.
performance measures and targets as follows: the EPS growth targets for 2016 awards in nominal terms of 4% pa to 11% pa over three years: TSR targets between median and median 9% relative to the peer group: ROCE targets based on the average return over the performance period will vest from 12% to 15%, set to be relevant for the Company strategy.
Summary of the structure of Executive Directors remuneration Based on the Committees policy, the principal elements of the remuneration arrangements other than pension benefits or supplements in lieu of pension benefits for Executive Directors in the year to 31 March 2016 and for the year to 31 March 2017 are summarised in the table below.
Assumes maximum bonus and maximum self-investment and 2 for 1 share match.
Peter Rogers will be retiring as a director on 31 August 2016 and his acual PSP and Matching Share Awards for 2016 17 will reflect this.
Salary on appointment as Chief Operating Officer 1 April 2016.
His salary as Chief Executive from 1 September 2016 will be set using the approach described on page 94.
Salary as Chief Executive, Marine and Technology.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
The figure for 2015 16 above is that implied for a full year of service as a director.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 114 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Outstanding share awards summaries: grants made up to and during 2015 The following tables on pages115 to116 summarise the performance targets if applicable and other information about the schemes relevant to currently outstanding share awards held by Executive Directors ie those awards yet to vest and those that vested during the year to 31 March 2016 the awards made in 2012 under the PSP, the CSOP and the DBMP in 2012.
Scheme Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 20122015 Performance period For the 2012 awards: 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 vested in June 2015 as to 83.5%.
For the 2013 awards: 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016 expected to vest in June 2016 as to 38.7% for Executive Directors.
Proportion of total award that can General performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test vest under each measure Maximum Compound annual growth: Outperformance of the median TSR 50% performance for the peer group taken 2012 awards: 12.5% or more as a whole by 9% or more in excess of RPI 2013 and 2014 Awards: 11% or more in excess of RPI 2015 Awards: 11% or more Threshold Compound annual growth in: TSR performance equivalent 8.3% to the median for the peer 2012 2014 awards: 4% or more group as a whole in excess of RPI 2015 Awards: 4% or more Intermediate growth between Intermediate ranking between Straightline basis between the above points the above points 8.3% and 50% Compound annual growth Performance less than equivalent 0% below threshold to median for the whole peer group TSR comparator group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Other information The awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in respect of any item, is after exceptional items.
The awards carry the right to receive on vesting a payment equal to the value of any dividends in the period between grant and vesting but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
Exercise periods commence not less than three years from actual or nominal award grant date.
CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that in aggregate the holder cannot receive more gross value from them than a standalone PSP award of shares equal to the relevant award multiple of the Directors base salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 115 Remuneration report continued Scheme Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 20122015 matching awards Performance period For the 2012 awards: 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 vested in June 2015 as to 88.4%.
For the 2013 awards: 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016 expected to vest in June 2016 as to 58.8% for Executive Directors.
Match that can vest General Performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test under each measure Maximum Compound annual growth: Outperformance of the ROCE of more than 0.33x maximum median TSR performance 20.5% 2012 23.5% 2013 2012 awards: 12.5% or for the peer group taken 17% 2014 15% 2015 more in excess of RPI as a whole by 9% or more 2013 and 2014 Awards: 11% or more in excess of RPI 2015 Awards: 11% or more Threshold Compound annual growth: TSR performance ROCE of 17.5% 2012 0.042x maximum equivalent to the 21.5% 2013 2012 2014 awards: median for the peer 15% 2014 12% 2015 4% or more in excess of RPI group as a whole 2015 Awards: 4% or more Intermediate growth Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straightline basis between the above points between the above points between the above points between 0.042x and 0.33x maximum Compound annual Performance less than ROCE of less than 0x growth below threshold equivalent to median for 17.5% 2012 21.5% 2013 the whole peer group 15% 2014 12% 2015 TSR comparator group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
Other information Matching awards are not subject to re-testing.
For the 2012, 2013 and 2015 awards ROCE is underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the applicable Performance Period.
For 2014 awards, the test is based on Average Capital Employed in the 2016 17 Financial Year, with EBIT for the Babcock businesses excluding Avincis now called Mission Critical Services being calculated after amortisation of acquired intangibles and EBIT for the Avincis business being calculated before amortisation of acquired intangibles in each case before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Capital Employed calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for that year.
In addition, for the 2014 awards, the Committee has to be satisfied that ROCE for 2014 15 and 2015 16 was satisfactory, and that the recorded ROCE performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
ROCE targets set at the start of each cycle represent challenging returns in relation to the capital structure at that time, including the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the period prior to grant.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant changes to the capital structure made during the performance period eg acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair outcome for participants and shareholders.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 116 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Linkage of remuneration to strategic objectives, risk management and its alignment with shareholder interests The Committee links the remuneration of executives to the long-term interests of shareholders and key strategic and risk management objectives by the performance criteria it uses in the annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes.
Examples include the following: Strategic Objective SO Risk R Annual bonus scheme metric Long-term incentive metric SO R: Delivering superior Financial measures focused on annual delivery of Incentivising delivery of top quartile and sustainable value for our sustainable earnings and or profits with stretch targets, shareholder returns and earnings shareholders, whilst balancing whilst maintaining strict control of cash.
growth over the longer term.
Long-term measures and deferral of significant part of annual bonus to guard against short-term steps being taken to maximise annual rewards at the expense of future performance.
Setting challenging budgets and stretch targets, as well as non-financial measures specifically aimed at: laying the foundations for sustainable growth in specific existing and new geographical business markets: winning key bids and re-bids: fostering strategically important partnering arrangements.
SO: Developing and maintaining Specific non-financial objectives for: leading market positions in the progressing plans for entry into or expansion in UK and selected overseas markets.
targeted domestic and overseas markets: securing key business development milestones.
SO: Building and maintaining Non-financial objectives linked to: customer-focused, long-term customer satisfaction: relationships with strategically continuing improvement of management processes: important customers.
R: Loss of business reputation, meeting and planning for existing and poor contract performance.
future customer expectations on capability and compliance, for example, in the field of security and information assurance.
SO R: Ensuring the Group will Non-financial objectives linked to recruitment and Retentive nature of the continue to retain and attract the development, resource and succession planning, long-term schemes.
suitably qualified and experienced and fostering diversity and employee engagement.
people it needs to deliver its growth Retentive nature of the requirement for deferral and strategic plans, maintain and into shares of 40% of annual bonuses earned by develop its technical and senior executives.
SO R: Maintenance of an Overriding health, safety and environmental excellent health, safety and performance criterion in annual bonus schemes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 117 Remuneration report continued Exit payments made in year audited performance conditions as described on page 114above for the period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019, and will vest at the No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during normal time.
He will also receive the benefit of the dividends the year under review.
that would have been paid over the vesting period on shares Payments to past Directors audited that vest the awards.
In September 2015, Kevin Thomas gave notice of his retirement Annual Bonus 2016 17 from full-time executive employment with the Company, As he is serving as Chief Executive for most of the first half of effective 31 March 2016.
He retired as an Executive Director the 2016 17 financial year, Peter Rogers will also participate in a of the Company on 31 December 2015 though he continued time and performance pro-rated annual bonus scheme on similar to be employed on his existing terms and conditions until his terms as for other Directors as described on page114 above, retirement on 31 March 2016 and he therefore continued to but will only receive 50% of the amount that would be payable be paid salary and benefits in accordance with his service for the full year after testing for performance.
Any such payment agreement until 31 March 2016.
He willbe entitled tothe full will be made in June 2017 as to 60% in cash and 40% by way of value of any shares vesting in June 2016 under his 2013 PSP and deferral in shares for three years into a Basic Award under the DBMP awards together with any associated Dividend Equivalent DBMP, but he will not be eligible for a matching award Cash.
Payments not included in the single total figure of opportunity on the deferral.
He will also receive the benefit of remuneration table were 88,500 of salary and 22,100 of the dividends that would have been paid over the vesting period pension in respect of the period 1 January 2016 to 31 March on shares that vest in respect of such DBMP award.
For further details on the treatment of Kevin Thomass outstanding awards see section on Retiring Directors below.
Existing Share Awards made up to and including 2015 Please refer to theChairman's Annual Statement on page94 Save in respect of Kevin Thomas as referred to above, above, which provides further context regarding the treatment nopayments were made to past Directors in the year.
The Committee has exercised discretion Retiring Directors afforded within the approved remuneration policy not to reduce the number of shares covered by the share awards already held During the year to 31 March 2016, two Executive Directors by Peter Rogers and Kevin Thomas at the time they gave notice gave notice of retirement.
Kevin Thomas, as noted above, of their retirements to reflect, where those awards were retired on 31 March 2016 having given notice of his retirement performance-related that the vesting periods would not be in September 2015.
He stepped down from the Board on served in full.
Performance pro-rating will still apply.
Peter Rogers gave notice in January 2016 performance they will, therefore receive any shares actually of his intention to retire on 31 August 2016, when he will also vesting under their PSP and DBMP 2013, 2014 and 2015 awards step down from the Board.
Consequent upon those notices of by reference to the number of shares as originally granted under retirement, the Committee decided, as permitted by the terms each award, together with the Dividend Equivalent Cash on of its remuneration policy, to deal with their remuneration as such shares.
Kevin Thomas will also continue to act as the Groups nominee Non-Executive Directors fees including the Chairman for part-time, non-executive Chairman of the parent body The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fixed fees.
organisations for the Magnox and Dounreay decommissioning These fees are reviewed against market practice from time to contracts Cavendish Fluor Limited and Cavendish Dounreay time by the Chairman and the Executive Directors in the case Partnership Limited, respectively in which the Group is of the Non-Executive Director fees and by the Remuneration interested with its joint venture partners.
He will be paid Committee in respect of the fees payable to the Chairman.
60,000 per annum for each Chairmanship.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees were last reviewed and set as of 1 April 2015.
Basic Pay and benefits other than annual bonus and Year to share awards 31 March 2017 Kevin Thomas continued to, and Peter Rogers will continue to, Annual rate of fees be paid in accordance with their relevant service agreements Chairman 310,000 up to the date of their retirement.
Senior Independent Director Annual Bonus 2015 16 inclusive of basic fee 69,000 The bonus for Peter Rogers for the full year to 31 March 2016 Basic Non-Executive Directors fee for the whole of whichhe wasemployed will be paid at the 1 UK based directors 58,000 normal time in June 2016 and pro-rated for performance.
2 Chairmanship of Audit and Risk Committee 15,000 In accordance with our remuneration policy, 40% of the bonus 2 earned will be deferred for three years, subject to adjustment as Chairmanship of Remuneration Committee 15,000 described on page94 above, into a Basic Award of shares under 1.
Fees for non-UK based directors will be set having regard to the extra the DBMP and he will also receive the benefit of the dividends time commitment involved in attending meetings.
For Myles Lee, that would have been paid over the vesting period on shares appointed 1 April 2015 and based in Ireland, and for Victoire fide that eventually vest under that award.
Margerie, appointed 1 February 2016 and based in France, the fee has been set at 62,000.
Committee chairmanship fees are paid in addition to the basic As he is continuing as Chief Executive for most of the first half of applicable Non-Executive Directors fee.
No additional fees are paid the 2016 17 financial year, Peter Rogers will also be granted a for membership of Committees.
time pro-rated matching award under the DBMP and a time pro-rated PSP award, over one-sixth of the number of shares he would have been granted were he to have been expected to serve for the full three years of the performance period to be attached to those awards, These pro-rated matching awards under the DBMP and the PSP awards will be subject to Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 118 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief 2014 15 2015 16 % change Executives remuneration as disclosed in the single total figure Distribution to of remuneration table on page 107 from the prior year shareholders 117m 126m 7.3% compared to the average percentage change in remuneration Employee for other employees.
remuneration 1,384m 1,459m 5.4% The analysis is based on UK employees as they are operating in Performance graphs the same geography and macro-economic background as the Chief Executive.
The following graph shows the TSR Total Shareholder Return for the Company compared to the FTSE100 Index and FTSE350 % change 2014 15 to 2015 16 Support Services Index, assuming 100 was invested on 31 March 2009 investment in the Company was worth 289 on Chief Executive Other employees 31 March 2016.
The Board considers that these indices currently Base salary 5% 1.9% represent the most appropriate of the published indices for these Taxable benefits -38% 3.4% purposes as they provide a view of performance against the Single-year variable -19% -26.6% broad equity market and sector index of which the Company is a constituent.
Babcock International vs. FTSE Support Services Index and FTSE 100 Index 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2009 Babcock FTSE 350 Support Services Index FTSE 100 Index The table below details the CEOs single figure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
Babcock CEO single figure of remuneration and % of variable awards vesting 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 Single figure k 1,706 1,792 2,185 2,731 3,809 4,448 2,491 Bonus vesting % max 97% 98% 99% 99% 93% 78% 60% DBMP matching shares vesting % max n a n a n a n a n a 88.4% 58.8% PSP CSOP vesting % max 100% 82.9% 57.8% 58.8% 94.7% 83.5% 38.7% Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 119 Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2009 Remuneration report continued Directors share ownership Directors interests in shares audited The interests of the Directors and or their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2016, and Directors interests in shares and options under Babcocks long-term incentives are set out in the sections below: At 31 March 2015 At 31 March 2016 Shares held Shares held Options held Unvested Unvested Owned Owned Vested but and and outright outright subject to Vested subject to subject to S holding Current by director by director holding but not performance continued req.
shareholding 1 1 2 2 Director or spouse or spouse period exercised conditions employment % salary % of salary Req.
Beneficially held shares of director and or spouse.
Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors is calculated based on salary as at 31 March 2016 and by reference to shares owned outright by Director or spouse, options vested but subject to holding periods, options vested but not exercised and options unvested but subject only to continued employment, valued assuming exercise of options on 31 March 2016 and calculated post-tax.
Disclosure of these shareholdings reflects any adjustments made due to the rights issue which completed during May 2014.
His interests are shown as at that date.
Kate Swann retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
The figures shown for her are holdings as at that date.
Myles Lee joined the board on 1 April 2015.
Victoire fide Margerie joined the board on 1 February 2016.
There have been no changes to the continuing directors or their spouses shareholdings between 31 March 2016 and 24 May 2016.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 120 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Directors share-based awards and options audited The table below shows the various share awards held by Directors under the Companys various share schemes.
The Companys mid-market share price at close of business on 31 March 2016 was 949.5p.
The highest and lowest mid-market share prices in the year ended 31 March 2016 were 1,145p and 854p, respectively.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 15 Jun 2015 1,104.1p.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 30 Nov 2015 1,078.9p.
For other notes to the table see page 126.
Market Value of each share at date of exercise 16 Jul 2015 1,108.5p.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 15 Jun 2015 1,104,1p.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 16 Jun 2015 1,098.0p.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 17 Jun 2015 1,111.2p.
Market value of eachshare at date of exercise 30 Nov 2015 1,071.0p.
NOTES APPLICABLE TO ALL TABLES ON PAGES121 TO 126.
Outstanding awards granted prior to June 2014 were adjusted to reflect the rights issue which completed during May 2014 using a standard adjustment factor of 1.13417.
Any reference price, including the exercise prices shown was also adjusted.
PSP 2009 Performance Share Plan: CSOP 2009 Company Share Option Plan: DBMP 2012 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan.
Further details about these plans and, where applicable, performance conditions attaching to the awards listed are to be found on pages110 to 116.
The PSP and DBMP awards are structured as nil priced options.
DBMP basic awards represent the amount of the annual bonus mandatorily deferredand DBMP voluntary deferral awards represent the amount voluntarily deferred by the Director, in each case converted into shares attheir value at the award date.
Subject to the rules of the scheme concerned, including as to meeting performance targets for PSP, CSOP and DBMP Matching Awards.
Where this date is less than ten years from the date of award, the Committee may extend the expiry date on one or more occasions, but not beyond the tenth anniversary of the award.
The vesting of the CSOP award is subject to performance measures that are identical to those for the PSP award granted on the same date.
When a CSOP award is granted at the same time as a PSP award, the PSP award has two parts.
The CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be acquired on exercise of the two awards is limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards and after deducting any exercise price payable on exercise of the CSOP award equal to the relevant grant multiple of the Directors base salary at the date of the awards the Limit.
This is achieved by making the level of vesting of Part B of the PSP Award accord to the level of vesting of the linked CSOP award but the actual number of vested Part B award shares that can be exercised is then limited according to the market price on the day of exercise such that the total value of Part B PSP award shares so exercisable does not then exceed the exercise price payable on exercise of the vested CSOP award.
If there is less than full vesting, it is possible for the Director to choose to exercise the CSOP to its fullest extent within the Limit and then to exercise the PSP award to the extent of any balance left within the Limit.
The actual number of shares capable of being exercised under Part B of the PSP award can only be determined on the exercise date as explained in note 5 above.
Awards shown in the table for John Davies for 2012 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 January 2013.
Awards shown in the table for Franco Martinelli for 2012 and 2013 and June 2014 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 August 2014.
The actual number of PSP 2012 Funding shares capable of being exercised was determined on the CSOP exercise date.
Market value on vesting could not have exceeded market value on award of relating CSOP 2012 awards.
GENERAL NOTES: 1. Dividend equivalent cash an amount representing dividends earned of 69.77p per vested share had accrued on the PSP 2012 awards and on the DBMP 2013 awards, in each case for the period between grant and vesting.
It is payable by the Company to the award holder on exercise of the award concerned.
Closing Share Price on the last dealing date before vesting was for PSP 2012 1,121p 14 June 2015, CSOP 2012 and DBMP 2012 awards 1,111p 16 July 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 127 Remuneration report continued Other interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
External appointments of Executive Directors in 2015 16 The table below details the fees received by Peter Rogers, Bill Tame and Kevin Thomas during the year, in respect of their other directorships, which are retained by the Executive Director.
Fees received Name of director Company 000 1 Peter Rogers Galliford Try plc 4 Bill Tame Southern Water 50 2 Kevin Thomas Harvey Nash Group plc 32 1.
Peter Rogers retired from the board of Galliford Try on 30 April 2015 2.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Board of Babcock International Group PLC on 31 December 2015.
The figure for his earnings from Harvey Nash PLC is for the period 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015.
This Remuneration report was approved by the Board on 24 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Jeff Randall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24May 2016 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 128
