BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 79 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Remuneration Committee report Members Paula Rosput Reynolds Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman Chairman of the Elizabeth Corley Remuneration Committee Nick Rose Dear Shareholders, Thus, given the external environment of There are multiple considerations in the heightened sensitivity on remuneration, designof the overall framework.
First, is Over the last year, there has been an potential senior leadership changes and the thebalance of short-term and long-term elevatedinterest by shareholders and the UK exigencies of our business, the Committee incentives.
Second, is the interplay between government regarding executive remuneration.
hashad much to consider over the last Group and business segment results and Concerns have been raised about the number of months.
This letter elaborates individual accomplishments, as well as the effectiveness of the incentives embedded onthe Committees thinking and reflects the level of reward afforded to employees in the inremuneration schemes, the alignment extensive input we have received from major wider Group.
Third, is to distinguish between ofremuneration with shareholder interests the precise numerical results and the character shareholders.
We provide substantial detail in and business outcomes, and the quantum of the results themselves, including the manner this letter so that all shareholders can equally ofrewards afforded to top-level executives.
in which they are achieved.
Fourth, isthe consider the various concerns and trade-offs Whilelisted companies have often sought balance between absolute shareholder value that the Committee has considered in tostandardise their plans, there is a growing creation and theGroups performance relative proposing changes to the policy.
recognition that one size does not fit all.
Nevertheless, the Committees overarching It is with this backdrop in mind that the Our short-term programme metrics are tied goal remains the same to ensure that we are Remuneration Committee the Committee toGroup performance, business segment providing the proper incentives for sustainable has considered both the administration of performance and individual goals, including high performance by our executive team, to ourcurrent reward framework and the the leadership behaviours that underpin do so with transparency for our stakeholders, refreshment of our remuneration policy BAE Systems Total Performance culture.
and to assure alignment between business thePolicy, the latter ofwhich will be Ourlong-term incentive programme measures results and rewards conferred.
subjectto a shareholder resolution at the absolute performance of the Group and 2017Annual General Meeting AGM.
Context to the Committees decisions performance relative to peers.
Our framework Webelieve that weve madesubstantial The Committee is concerned with the full is intended to foster accountability for progress in recent years tobuild a more spectrum of executive employment matters: sustaining and growing the Group in a directalignment between theCompanys recruiting, promoting and retaining the best responsible manner.
strategy and the creation ofshareholder value.
top-level leaders, setting the incentives under At this same time, wehave sought to reduce In addition to developing the overall which these leaders operate, and monitoring the complexity of our long-term incentive remuneration policy and framework, the the results they produce and the manner in arrangements.
Butthis effort is always a work Committee assesses the level ofchallenge which they produce them.
Our overall in progress: asbusiness circumstances change, within our Annual and Long-Term Incentive remuneration framework has a number of so must weadapt our policies.
Annually, in November, the full specific objectives.
It is designed to motivate Board reviews and adopts the Integrated our key talent to achieve the Companys 2017 is, in many ways, a crossroads year Business Plan.
Thereafter, the Committee strategic objectives, todeliver on customer forBAE Systems.
We remain subject to reviews the specific business targets metrics commitments, to lead and inspire employees, rapidly-changing political, economic, defence for the one and three-year periods and and to drive value for our shareholders.
It is and security conditions around the world.
examines the underlying assumptions, also designed to be competitive in the Such circumstances require that we redouble including the degree of stretch contained variousmarkets in which we operate and our efforts to be responsive to the environment within them.
After setting one and three-year compete for talent.
and to innovate for the long-run health of targets, the Committee periodically reviews ourbusiness.
As already announced, Ian King progress towards the attainment of the will retire and Charles Woodburn has been objectives.
After the close of each year, the appointed as Chief Executive effective 1 July Committee undertakes a thorough review 2017.
Additionally, given the demographics of ofannual and three-year performance.
our workforce, we anticipate that there will be Separately, the Committee regularly considers anumber of other senior-level retirements and the overall construct of the remuneration individuals appointed to replace them over the package to ensure that potential pay next three to five years.
Under the guidance of outcomes are appropriate and reasonable our Chairman, Sir Roger Carr, the Board has against different performance scenarios.
undertaken a programme which will not only assure a smooth transition of leadership but also inspire our employees toembrace change.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 80 Remuneration Committee report continued Rationale for the 2017 remuneration Maintain quantum Summary of key decisions for 2016 policy requiring approval at 2017 AGM As a demonstration of the Committees commitment to continued restraint, there will Determination of remuneration package Earlier this year, the Committee conducted be no change to Annual Incentive opportunity applicable to newly-appointed Chief anextensive review of the effectiveness of levels or LTI expected value levels.
Operating Officer in May 2016. ourapproved 2014 remuneration policy to determine whether it contained sufficient Salaries of the Chief Executive and As shareholders will recognise, there is an flexibility in our future arrangements.
The ChiefOperating Officer are not being important distinction between the face or Committee concluded that, overall, the increased for 2017. headline award values and the expected currentreward framework is broadly working value of the different LTI vehicles which takes Salary of the Group Finance Director and recognised that shareholders have into account the performance conditions on isbeing increased by 2.5% from  a high level of Performance Shares and Share Options, and 1January 2017. support for the Committees application of the inherent share price growth requirement Salary of the President and Chief thepolicy.
In terms of overall design principles, to deliver value as summarised in the Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. our review confirmed that the current design followingtable: isbeing increased by 3.0% from construct of base salary, Annual Incentive LTI LTI 1January 2017. andLTIs remains appropriate.
Importantly, headline expected award value Fee for the Chairman is being increased wepropose no changes to the overall quantum % of salary % of salary from 650,000 to 700,000 from of LTI expected value forexecutive directors.
Chief Executive 550 185 1February 2017 and isfixed for The Committee has spent considerable threeyears.
Chief Operating Officer 530 175 timeexamining the various alternative Awards granted in spring 2016 of constructs being advocated by shareholders Group Finance Director 515 167.5 Performance Shares, Share Options and government.
Many of these constructs and toUS executive director only President and are already featured in our plans, such as ChiefExecutive Officer Restricted Shares.
theuse of restricted shares in lieu of of BAE Systems, Inc. 732 299 Application of a performance range of performance-based shares or options: longer 3% to 7% average annual Earnings per mandatory holding periods for shares: and We believe reliance on headline values in Share EPS growth with 25% vesting higher levels of minimum shareholdings by judging the appropriateness of remuneration atthreshold to Long-Term Incentive executives.
The following revisions to our plans is misplaced since it does not account for LTI awards and 50% of the Total policy are proposed taking account of the challenging performance conditions and Shareholder Return TSR measure based shareholder recommendations.
In addition, the share price appreciation needed to create on the current peer comparator group recognising public interest in paydifferentials, realised value.
and 50% based on a TSR percentile we are disclosing the pay ratioof our current Adjust LTI metrics to align with ranking against the companies in the Chief Executive to that ofthe average strategicobjectives FTSE100 index.
A key conclusion of the review found that, Appointment of new independent whilst the LTI structure is broadly working, adviser Willis Towers Watson.
better alignment is possible between LTI vesting outcomes and Group performance and shareholder experience.
The Committee has previously recognised the need for better Business performance and incentive outcomes in 2016 alignment and, in 2016, the Committee addeda second TSR measure that benchmarks 2016 2016 BAE Systems performance, not just to its peer performance incentive outcome group, but to the broader group of FTSE 100 Group EPS AIP 38.5p companies.
This change was intended to align Group cash AIP 1,386 m realisation of equity by executive directors with the value created for the UKshareholder Group order intake AIP 20.9bn base, whose preferences for income differ Average three-year EPS growth LTI 5% from the US shareholder base ofBAE Systems Three-year TSR LTI 49.1% global defence peers.
Recordable Accident Rate per 100,000 employees AIP 580 Notwithstanding the improvement in Major injuries recorded AIP 39 alignment that we anticipate will be fostered by this FTSE component to the TSR, the Below threshold AIP Annual Incentive Plan Committee believes TSR may be a more Between threshold and target volatile indicator when used by itself as LTI Long-Term Incentive Between target and stretch ameans for vesting shares.
Prospectively, This resulted in the following incentive outcomes: theCommittee proposes to introduce EPS alongside TSR as aperformance condition 2016 annual bonus payouts for the executive directors ranged from 82.3% to 92.8% applicable to Share Options granted to ofmaximum: and theexecutive directors, with an equal Performance Share Plan and Share Option awards granted toexecutive directors 50%weighting on EPS and50% on TSR inMarch2014 will lapse in2017 as the performance conditionswere not met.
ascurrently applies to Performance Shares.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 81 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Application of 2018 package  Application of 2018 package  Share Performance Vests subject to Options Shares Vests subject to three-year TSR and three-year TSR and EPS conditions, and EPS conditions: two-year holding vested shares period, inyear 5 released in one-thirds in Performance years3, 4 and 5 Shares Restricted Vests subject to Shares three-year TSR and Vests subject to EPS conditions, and three-year service two-year holding condition with an period, inyear 5 additional two-year clawback period One-third One-third Compulsory compulsorily Compulsory compulsorily deferred inshares deferred inshares bonus deferral bonus deferral for three years for three years Annual Annual Incentive Incentive Two-thirds paid in Two-thirds paid in cash immediately cash immediately Base Base Salary Salary 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Year Year Charts are illustrative and are not to scale.
Details of executive director remuneration packages are on page 83.
The full Policy for approval at the 2017 AGM is on pages 99 to 111.
Our rationale for this enhancement is to before seeking toincrease the potential At the same time, we intend to increase recognise the strategic importance of vesting outcome atafuture point in time.
theMinimum Shareholding Requirement achieving consistent absolutegrowth in applicable to the US executive director from Modify the mix of LTI awards for the ourmarkets, not justrelative performance.
350% to 425% of salary, consistent with USexecutive director thehigher grant of Restricted Shares and In summary, the Committee continues to Following an extensive review, which included inkeeping with US market practice.
support the use of TSR so that there remains data provided by an independent third-party an external benchmark of the Groups adviser with expertise in the US defence The limits applicable to awards ofRestricted performance to both defence and FTSE peers.
sector, and in consultation with the board Shares contained within thecurrent policy At the same time, the Committee believes that ofBAE Systems, Inc. the Committee has willbe revised accordingly, with the maximum including three-year earnings targets keeps identified that the current LTI construct and limit on awards being raised from 100% to ourexecutives focused on achieving absolute realisable pay opportunity for our US executive 150% andwith no more than 50% of the growth over each planning period.
director is significantly out of line relative to overallLTIexpected value being delivered USpeer companies.
Differences in typical inRestricted Shares.
Application of reasonable discretion USmarket practice, such as the award of The Committee is mindful of the shareholder Increase period from grant to final release shareoptions not being subject to a further requirement for the Committee, and ultimately The Committee proposes to increase the performance hurdle, mean that the actual the Board, to exercise judgement when period from grant to final release to five years reward received by our US executive director determining remuneration awards.
In addition in respect of Performance Shares and Share lags that of USpeers by approximately 20%.
to the TSR and EPS primary performance tests, Options.
This will be structured as a three-year This is an unsustainable position and may in the Committee confirms and recognises its performance period with a further two-year time affect our ability to recruit and retain obligation to judge the overall reasonableness holding period on both Performance Shares top-tier talent for this critical position.
of the rewards received relative to the overall and Share Options and is applicable to our business actions and results achieved.
When To address this issue, and without increasing UKexecutive directors.
determining the final performance condition the overall expected value of the LTI, we are Recognising that extending the vesting holding outcome under the LTIP, the Committee may proposing to simplify the current construct period beyond three years would significantly exercise discretion over the number of ofthe US executive directors package by reduce the competitiveness of theLTI offering Performance Shares and or Share Options eliminating the use of Share Options and in the US, the Committee intends to retain vesting in the light of other important factors structuring the design of the LTI with an equal thecurrent LTI vesting release profiles for the in the business reasonable discretion.
Such weighting in expected value in Performance US executive director as follows: factors may include specific financial and or Shares andRestricted Shares as follows: Performance Shares: three-year performance operating conditions as well as judgements Expected value % of salary period with phased release of one-third at regarding the overall health and sustainability Current Proposed the end of years 3, 4 and 5. of the Group.
Whilst the exercise of such Performance Shares 121 149 discretion may result in vesting of awards going Restricted Shares: three-year vesting period upwards, the Committee fully appreciates the with an additional two-year clawback period.
Share Options 78 importance to shareholders of this being used Restricted Shares 100 150 in a balanced way, with clear demonstration of willingness to apply downward adjustments Total 299 299 BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 82 Remuneration Committee report continued Concluding comments The Committee believes that the recommended On behalf of my colleagues on the Committee, changes will ensure that our arrangements and indeed the entire Board, we appreciate arereasonable relative to the complexity and the input we have received from shareholders challenge of the Groups business, are globally and representatives of institutional investors.
competitive, and remain aligned to the These conversations and comments have been Companys strategic goals and to the interests influential in refreshing our policy.
right balance between standardised plans and On behalf of the Board bespoke solutions is a challenging exercise.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman of the  The Remuneration Committees year January Spring November Committee Re-tender Committee London, UK London, UK Farnborough, Hampshire, UK Considered offer package for incoming Re-tender for Independent Adviser to Reviewed feedback from early Chief Operating Officer.
February Reviewed level of executive directors May Committee andExecutive Committee members London, UK Committee shareholdings relative to the Minimum Shareholding Requirement.
Determined 2015 bonuses against Farnborough, Hampshire, UK Reviewed dilution levels and share usage performance for executive directors Considered remuneration design and under Employee Share Plans.
andExecutive Committee members external market trends and themes for 2017 forpayment in March 2016.
Approved operation of Group All-Employee Approved 2015 Group All-Employee Free Share Plans.
December Committee Determined vesting outcome for Committee 2013Long-Term Incentive awards.
Baltimore, Maryland, US London, UK Approved 2016 Long-Term Incentive Considered proposed changes to 2017 awardsand associated performance Reviewed and set salaries and bonus Directors remuneration policy renewal.
targetsfor executive directors and opportunity levels for executive directors Agreed process for early shareholder ExecutiveCommittee members.
consultation on Directors remuneration Agreed 2016 objectives for executive Proposed and set 2017 Annual Incentive policy.
directors and Executive Committee targets.
Agreed basis for 2017 annual remuneration members.
Considered further updates on early review.
Reviewed feedback from shareholder shareholder consultation on 2017 Reviewed and set the Chairmans fee consultation on 2016 remuneration review.
Reviewed Remuneration Committee Reviewed draft 2016 Annual remuneration Received update on progress against termsof reference.
AnnualIncentive Plan objectives for Approved 2015 Annual remuneration executive directors and Executive report.
Received update on performance conditions for Long-Term Incentive awards.
Remuneration Committee timeline January February May September November December Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Re-tender
