Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee Dear Fellow Shareholders As Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to introduce the Remuneration report for 2016.
I set out below the business context which influenced the major decisions taken by the Committee for the year.
This years report also includes a new Directors remuneration policy, which has been updated for regulatory changes, and simplified where possible.
Performance and pay We remain focused on aligning our pay to performance and setting pay at a level which allows us to attract, retain and motivate, but is no more than necessary to ensure that we accelerate the delivery of shareholder value.
The inherent tension between these important considerations continues to be a key component of the Committees deliberations.
2016 represented a year of strong progress against our strategy.
We have moved a step closer towards completing the restructuring of Barclays a restructuring that will create a simplified bank focused on delivering long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
Our Core We remain focused on aligning our pay to businesses are performing well, the rundown of Non-Core businesses performance and setting pay at a level which has accelerated and Barclays continues to explore opportunities to allows us to attract, retain and motivate, but is reduce its shareholding in BAGL to a level that would permit regulatory deconsolidation.
The result will be the creation of a high performing no more than necessary to ensure that we transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment bank.
accelerate the delivery of shareholder value.
Our Core businesses delivered profit before tax up materially, 60% up The inherent tension between these important compared to 2015.
Excluding notable items this increase was 4%, and 10% excluding the impact of changes to our deferral arrangements considerations continues to be a key further detail overleaf.
Core costs of 13.4bn exceeded guidance due component of the Committees deliberations.
to changes to the deferral arrangements.
Return on Tangible Equity RoTE in our Core businesses has increased to 8.4% in 2016 2015: 4.8%.
Excluding notable items, Core RoTE was 9.4% 2015: 11.2%.
Non-Core has executed well against strategy, accelerating the rundown while preserving capital, delivering a 22bn reduction in Risk Weighted Assets.
Group profit before tax for 2016 is 182% up from 2015, at 3,230m, in part driven by a material reduction in costs associated with risk and conduct events in 2016.
The Groups capital position continues to strengthen with a 2016 year end CRD IV fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of 12.4% 2015: 11.4%.
The Committees deliberations on the 2016 incentive pool reflected Group performance and strategic delivery in both the Core and Non-Core businesses.
We reached the decision that an overall Group incentive pool of 1,533m, down slightly from 1,544m in 2015, is appropriate notwithstanding strong 2016 delivery.
This level of incentive pool also absorbs the material adverse impact of foreign exchange movements through the year, which more than offset the impact of reductions in staff numbers in the year.
The Core compensation to net income excluding notable items ratio decreased from 34.0% in 2015 to 32.7% in 2016 excluding the impact of the deferral changes, increasing slightly to 34.7% including the impact of these changes.
At a Group level, the ratio increased to 40.2% 2015: Remuneration Committee members 37.7% driven by Non-Core as it continues to be run down.
Chairman Risk and conduct Crawford Gillies The Committee takes risk and conduct issues very seriously and ensures Members that appropriate adjustments are made at both the individual level and Tim Breedon to the incentive pool.
Mary Francis from November 2016 Individual performance management reviews assess individuals Dambisa Moyo alignment with Barclays Values, which in turn impacts individual Steve Thieke until March 2016 incentive decisions.
Employees who exhibit Barclays Values, resulting in positive risk and conduct outcomes, are rewarded accordingly while those who are directly or indirectly accountable for risk and conduct Contents issues have their remuneration adjusted downwards.
This includes Page reductions in current year bonus and, where appropriate, reductions Annual statement 99 through the application of malus and, going forward, clawback.
New Directors remuneration policy at a glance 101 2016 incentives 103 Remuneration policy for all employees 105 Directors remuneration policy 108 Annual report on Directors remuneration 121 Additional remuneration disclosures 133 The tables marked audited in the report have been audited by  LLP home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 99 Governance: Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee Collective adjustments have also been made to the Group incentive pool From 2017, Barclays is evolving from the existing Balanced Scorecard approach to one which better reflects progress towards our strategic for specific material risk and conduct events, and to take account of an overall assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, goals.
While many of the performance measures remain consistent with the Balanced Scorecard, the new Performance Measurement Framework non-financial factors that can support the delivery of a strong risk management and conduct culture and other factors including allows for a more holistic assessment and broadens our approach to strategic non-financial measures while retaining a balance of key reputation, impact on customers, markets and other stakeholders.
The framework has been incorporated into the measures for the 2017 annual bonus and LTIP with effect from Changes to deferral arrangements Under existing incentive deferral arrangements, there is a limited the 2017 award.
Financial measures will guide 60% of the maximum opportunity for the 2017 annual bonus, and 70% of the maximum relationship between in-year performance costs booked and changes in the incentive pool.
This is a result of high overall levels of deferral, as well opportunity for the 2017 LTIP award.
as the way that the costs of those deferrals have been recognised in our accounts.
The effect of this is that if we chose for example to reduce Agenda for 2017 The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that remuneration is the incentive pool in a given year due to underperformance, there would be limited impact on costs for the year in question.
This lack of in-year aligned to the delivery of our strategy and sustainable shareholder returns.
The Committee will also continue to monitor the flexibility on such an important cost line is not ideal.
From 2016, a change in the recognition timing of deferral costs, together with a competitiveness of our remuneration in the light of recent regulatory changes by the PRA, FCA and EBA.
These changes have compounded harmonisation of deferral levels across the Group, will result in improvements to the Groups operational flexibility going into 2017 and the competitive disadvantage for UK based global firms attributable to the lack of a global level regulatory playing field.
These changes are described in further detail on page 104.
We will also continue to progress further our agenda to address pay inequality, further details on page 106, which is in line with the proposals New remuneration policy for 2017 in the Governments Green Paper on Corporate Governance Reform.
The We will be seeking shareholder approval for a new Directors Committee welcomes this Green Paper and supports its intent to remuneration policy DRP at the 2017 AGM.
The new policy adopts, strengthen accountability over executive pay.
We have provided our where possible, a more simplified and transparent approach to views on the proposals via an industry response and will monitor remuneration and is more closely aligned to Barclays remuneration developments over the coming months.
Changes in the policy also address recent regulatory developments, in particular the requirement to defer bonuses and Long Our Remuneration report Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards for a period of up to seven years.
We The report has been prepared in accordance with the remuneration have also introduced a new requirement for executive Directors to hold disclosures required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and shares for two years post-termination.
Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
We are seeking shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM for our new DRP, the The Committee was supportive of an even more simplified approach Remuneration report other than the part containing the DRP and than that proposed, but the Committee concluded that while this revisions to the Barclays LTIP in response to changes in regulatory alternative was attractive, there was not yet sufficient clarity on major requirements.
Further details can be found in the 2017 AGM Notice shareholders expectations for us to propose such a change at the of Meeting.
The proposed changes to the DRP have been discussed with a number of our larger shareholders and institutional shareholder I am grateful for the feedback received from our larger shareholders on our remuneration proposals and value the insight the discussions bodies, and overall they are broadly supportive of the changes.
An at a glance summary of the new policy can be found on pages 101 and 102 provide.
I hope you will support these resolutions at the 2017 AGM.
of this report and the full policy is set out on pages 108 to 120.
Key remuneration decisions for executive Directors Based on the performance of our executive Directors against the performance measures set at the beginning of the year, the Committee approved a 2016 bonus award of 1,318,000 60% of maximum for Jes Staley and 854,000 61% of maximum for Tushar Morzaria.
Further details of the Committees 2016 decisions for the executive Directors are Crawford Gillies set out on pages 121 and 122.
70% of Jes Staleys annual bonus and Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee 60% of Tushar Morzarias annual bonus have been deferred in shares.
22 February 2017 The period over which variable remuneration has been deferred has increased to seven years.
Unvested variable remuneration is subject to malus during the vesting period.
All variable remuneration awarded to the executive Directors is also subject to clawback for a period of up to 10 years.
The Committee has agreed that Jes Staleys Fixed Pay will be unchanged for 2017 at 2,350,000 2016: salary 1,200,000 and Role Based Pay RBP 1,150,000.
The Committee has agreed that Tushar Morzarias Fixed Pay will be increased to 1,650,000 for 2017 2016: salary 800,000 and RBP 750,000.
In considering the appropriate level of Tushar Morzarias Total fixed pay Fixed Pay plus Pension, the Committee took account of the time he has been in role without any increase over three years, his strong performance and importance to the organisation, and industry market rates for the role.
The Committee concluded that an increase of 5.7%, being less than the cumulative increase paid to UK employees over the same period, was warranted but agreed that the executive Directors would not be eligible for any further increase in the next three years i. e. during the new policy period.
100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report New Directors remuneration policy at a glance Introduction Barclays new DRP is subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM on 10 May 2017 and, if approved, is intended to apply immediately, for three years to the date of the 2020 AGM.
What were the key factors taken into account when determining the new DRP?
The Committee considered the Barclays remuneration philosophy adopted in 2015, regulatory developments and its experience of operating the prior DRP when designing the new DRP.
Inputs Outcomes Alignment with Barclays remuneration philosophy Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays strategy Align pay with investor interests Reward sustainable performance Support Barclays Values and culture Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible Regulatory developments Longer deferral periods: 7 year pro-rata, from year 3 for PRA Senior Managers including executive Directors Extension of clawback periods from 7 to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers including executive Directors Applies for first time for 2017 performance year: Prohibition on dividend equivalents on deferred shares Increase to one year from 6 months holding period for awards delivered in shares Requirement that LTIP grants are based on performance over prior year as well as forward-looking performance period What are the key changes to the DRP?
Key changes Fixed pay Fixed Pay introduced, replacing salary and RBP Fixed Pay delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares subject to 5 year holding period lifting pro-rata Fixed Pay will not change during the policy period for either of the current executive Directors Pension allowance retained at current levels, but limited to 10% of Fixed Pay for new hires Variable pay Bonus and LTIP combined for regulatory deferral purposes Performance measures Bonus: Financial measures 60% LTIP: Financial measures 70% Delivery Any bonus deferral vests in equal tranches between the third and seventh anniversary of award LTIP performance is tested at end of 3 year performance period and vests in equal tranches between the third and seventh anniversary of award Shareholding requirement Requirement increased to 200% of Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension within 5 years from their respective date of appointment from 400% of salary to equivalent of 457% of salary for CEO New requirement to hold shares worth 100% of Total fixed pay or pro-rata thereof for 2 years post-termination Employment contracts For new hires, asymmetry for notice periods removed i. e. 6 months from the Company and 6 months from the Director from 12 months from the Company and 6 months from the Director Full details of the changes to the DRP can be found on page 113.
The full DRP is set out on pages 108 to 120. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 101 Governance: Remuneration report New Directors remuneration policy at a glance How will the new DRP be implemented?
The following charts illustrate how the vesting profiles of maximum total compensation for the Group CEO would change from the current policy to the new policy.
All share awards are subject to additional holding periods following vesting, during which shares may not be sold or transferred.
Current policy pre-regulatory change for current CEO Proposed policy post-regulatory change for current CEO 300% 300% 300% 250% 250% 200% 200% 150% 150% 100% 100% 50% 50% 0% 0% 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Salary RBP released over 5 years Pension Fixed cash Fixed shares released over 5 years Pension Upfront cash bonus Upfront share bonus subject to 6 month holding Upfront cash bonus Upfront share bonus subject to 1 year holding Deferred bonus subject to 6 month holding LTIP subject to 2 year holding Deferred bonus subject to 1 year holding LTIP subject to 1 year holding Additional holding period after vest Additional holding period after vest Subject to shareholder approval of the new DRP, the proposed DRP will apply from the 2017 performance year.
How will the executive Directors remuneration be structured in 2017?
Total fixed pay Fixed Pay Pension 000 000 Jes Staley 2,350 396 Tushar Morzaria 1,650 200 Annual bonus LTIP Maximum 80% of Total fixed pay Maximum 120% of Total fixed pay 2017-2019 cycle performance measures and weighting: 2017 Performance measures and weighting: Profit before tax excluding notable items 22.5% RoTE excluding notable items 25% CET1 ratio 22.5% CET1 ratio as at 31.12.19 25% Cost:Income ratio excluding notable items 15.0% Cost:Income ratio excluding notable items 20% Strategic non-financial 20.0% Strategic non-financial 15% Risk Scorecard 15% Personal objectives 20.0% 102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 1,533m 1,544m 1,860m 2,378m 2,168m 2,578m 3,484m Governance: Remuneration report 2016 incentives This section provides details of how the 2016 total incentive award decisions were made.
2016 pay and performance headlines The key performance considerations which the Committee took into account in making its remuneration decisions for 2016 are highlighted below: Group profit before tax was up 182% at 3,230m 2015: 1,146m Group CET1 ratio was up to 12.4% 2015: 11.4% Core profit before tax was up 60% from 2015 at 6,016m.
Excluding notable items Core profit before tax was up 4% to 6,436m 2015: 6,191m, and up 10% excluding the impact of deferral changes made in 2016 RoTE in our Core businesses increased to 8.4% in 2016 2015: 4.8%.
Excluding notable items, Core RoTE was 9.4% 2015: 11.2% strong execution of the rundown of Non-Core resulting in a reduction in Risk Weighted Assets of 22bn.
The pay outcomes and decisions can be summarised as follows: total compensation costs increased 2% to 7,445m 2015: 7,301m including the impact of the deferral changes.
Excluding this impact compensation costs were down 3% total incentive awards granted were slightly down at 1,533m 2015: 1,544m the level of incentive pool absorbs the material adverse impact of foreign exchange movements through the year which more than offset the impact of reductions in staff numbers in the year the Core compensation to net income ratio excluding notable items improved to 32.7% 2015: 34.0% excluding the impact of deferral changes, increasing slightly to 34.7% including the impact of these changes Group compensation to net income ratio excluding notable items was 40.2% 2015: 37.7% driven by Non-Core income reduction as it runs down Corporate and Investment Bank CIB front office incentive awards were also slightly down at 875m 2015: 884m.
Excluding the impact of deferral changes made in 2016, CIB compensation to net income ratio excluding notable items was 39.2% 2015: 40.3% there has been continued strong differentiation on the basis of individual performance to allow the Group to more effectively manage compensation costs.
2016 total incentive award decisions The Committees 2016 incentives decisions took full consideration of financial and non-financial performance and also the material repositioning of incentives undertaken since 2010.
Since 2010, the Group incentive pool has declined steadily, from 3,484m in 2010 to 1,533m in 2016 a decrease of 56% over six years.
56% Group a b 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Notes a Part of the reduction in incentive pools in 2014 was due to the introduction of RBP.
b The 2015 Group incentive pool has been restated from 1,669m to reflect the treatment of Africa Banking as a discontinued operation.
The 2010 2014 Group incentive pools have not been restated.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 103 Governance: Remuneration report 2016 incentives Total incentive awards granted current year Barclays Group Year ended Year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 m m % change Incentive awards granted Bonus pool 1,459 1,453 0 a Commissions and other incentives 74 91 19 Total incentive awards granted 1,533 1,544 1 Reconciliation of incentive awards granted to income statement charge: Less: deferred bonuses granted but not charged in current year 300 665 55 Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 690 856 19 b Other 26 26 c Income statement charge for performance costs 1,897 1,761 8 d, e Total compensation costs 7,445 7,301 2 d, e Total compensation costs before the impact of deferral changes 7,050 7,301 3 Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred % 30 46 Notes a Awards included in 2015 as commitments are now reflected in Bonus pool for consistency with 2016. b Difference between incentive awards granted and Income Statement charge for commissions and other incentives.
c Includes the 395m impact of changes to deferral arrangements.
d 2015 total compensation costs have been adjusted to exclude the impact of a 429m gain on valuation of a component of the defined benefit liability.
e In addition 212m of Group compensation 2015: 236m was capitalised as internally generated software.
Changes to deferral arrangements From 2016 onwards, costs in relation to deferred bonuses are expensed from the performance year in respect of which they are granted.
Approximately 33% of deferred bonus costs will be taken in the year of performance, being the year prior to granting previously 0%.
This acceleration of future cost immediately improves the link between in-year performance costs and the size of the incentive pool.
The relationship between in-year performance costs and changes in the incentive pool will be further improved through a change to harmonise the deferral approach for all staff across the Group, creating internal consistency.
Historically, we have applied deferral levels significantly higher than those required by our regulators for bonus payments made specifically to senior staff in our Investment Bank, making them defer 100% of incentive awards over at least three years, with nothing paid at all in the year in which the performance is delivered.
This meant that any change to the Investment Bank pool in incentive awards to those staff had limited impact on the in-year performance costs recognised in our accounts.
This approach also put us out of step with peer practice where deferral levels are typically lower.
Our new Group deferral approach ensures that all staff will defer at least what is required by our regulators, while all of our highest paid staff will continue to defer more than is required to preserve the strong alignment to future Group performance.
This change means that any change in incentive awards will now have a direct and immediate impact on performance costs for the year when the charge is made.
The alignment of deferral levels across the Group also helps from a global competitive perspective given the differences in approach being adopted by the different regulatory regimes.
The differences have widened given the recent changes in the UK e. g. the increase in deferral duration to seven years for PRA Senior Managers and to five years for many other MRTs from three years previously.
Harmonising our deferral approach makes the delivery less uncompetitive outside the UK while importantly maintaining our responsibilities to all our stakeholders.
Impact of deferral changes Barclays Group Year ended Year ended 31.12.16 31.12.15 Barclays Group % % Compensation costs as a % of net income excluding notable items Before impact of deferral changes 38.1 37.7 After impact of deferral changes 40.2 37.7 Barclays Core % % Compensation costs as a % of net income excluding notable items Before impact of deferral changes 32.7 34.0 After impact of deferral changes 34.7 34.0 104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees This section sets out Barclays remuneration policy for all employees, explaining the philosophy underlying the structure of remuneration packages, and how this links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.
Remuneration philosophy In October 2015, the Committee formally adopted a revised, simplified remuneration philosophy which articulates Barclays overarching remuneration approach and is set out below.
Barclays remuneration philosophy Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays strategy Long-term success depends on the talent of our employees.
This means attracting and retaining an appropriate range of talent to deliver against our strategy, and paying the right amount for that talent Align pay with investor interests Ensure employees interests are aligned with those of investors equity and debt holders, both in structure and the appropriate balance of returns Reward sustainable performance Sustainable performance means making a positive contribution to stakeholders, in both the short and longer term, playing a valuable role in society Support Barclays Values and culture Results must be achieved in a manner consistent with our Values.
Our Values and culture should drive the way that business is conducted Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Designed to reward employees for achieving results in line with the Banks risk appetite and conduct expectations Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible All employees and stakeholders should understand how we reward our employees.
Remuneration structures should be as simple as possible so that everyone can understand how they work and the behaviours they reward Culture and remuneration Barclays remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving sustained high performance and creating long-term value.
Our remuneration philosophy applies to all employees globally across Barclays and aims to reinforce our belief that effective performance management is critical to enabling the delivery of our business strategy in line with our Values.
Employees who adhere to the Barclays Values and contribute to Barclays success are rewarded accordingly.
This is achieved by basing performance assessment on clear standards of delivery and behaviour, and starts with employees aligning their objectives what they will deliver to business and team goals in order to support the delivery of the business strategy and good customer outcomes.
Behavioural expectations how people will achieve their objectives are set in the context of our Values.
Individual performance is assessed against both financial and non-financial criteria.
Other factors are also taken into consideration within the overall performance assessment, including core job responsibilities, behaviours towards risk and control, colleague and stakeholder feedback as well as input from the Risk and Compliance functions, where appropriate.
Through our performance management approach we emphasise the equal importance of both what an individual has delivered as well as how they have achieved this, encouraging balanced consideration of each dimension.
Both of these elements are assessed and rated independently of each other.
In 2016 we eliminated the requirement to have an overall rating which should allow for more robust and reflective conversations between managers and team members on the individual components of performance.
A key part of the performance management philosophy promotes ongoing quality dialogue throughout the year.
This helps manage performance messages effectively and allows for more timely recognition as well as appropriate coaching and support where needed.
By linking individual performance assessment to Barclays strategy and our Values and, in turn, to remuneration decisions, a clear alignment between what we are striving to achieve, how we go about this, and ultimately, how we recognise this in individual financial terms is achieved.
Risk, conduct and remuneration Another key feature of our remuneration philosophy is the alignment of remuneration with our risk appetite and with the conduct expectations of Barclays, our regulators and stakeholders.
The Committee takes risk and conduct events very seriously and ensures that there are appropriate adjustments to individual remuneration and, where necessary, the incentive pool.
The Remuneration Review Panel, which reports to the Committee, supports the Committee in this process.
The Panel is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and includes senior representatives from the key control functions of Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit, Legal and HR as well as the CEOs of Barclays UK and Barclays International.
It sets the policy and processes for assessing compensation adjustments for risk and conduct events.
We have robust processes for considering risk and conduct as part of individual performance management processes with outcomes reflected in individual remuneration decisions.
Line managers have primary accountability for ensuring the risk and conduct issues are considered when assessing performance and making remuneration decisions.
In addition, there is a secondary review by the control functions for individuals involved in significant failures of risk management, conduct issues, regulatory actions or other major incidents which impact either the Group or business to ensure these issues are also considered.
When considering individual responsibility, a variety of factors are taken into account such as whether an individual was directly responsible or whether the individual, by virtue of seniority, could be deemed indirectly responsible, including staff who drive the Groups culture and set its strategy.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 105 Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees Actions which may be taken where risk management and conduct falls below required standards include: Adjustment Current year annual bonuses are adjusted downwards where individuals are found to be responsible either directly or indirectly in a risk or misconduct event.
Malus Deferred unvested bonuses from prior years are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil at its discretion.
Events which may lead the Committee to do this include, but are not limited to, employee misconduct or a material failure of risk management.
Clawback Clawback applies to any variable remuneration awarded to a PRA Material Risk Taker MRT on or after 1 January 2015 in respect of years for which they are a MRT.
Barclays may apply clawback if, at any time during the seven year period from the date on which variable remuneration is awarded to a MRT: i there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error, and or ii the firm or the business unit suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individuals proximity to and responsibility for that incident.
Clawback may be extended to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers where there are outstanding internal or regulatory investigations at the end of the 7 year clawback period.
Where possible, an adjustment will be made to current year annual bonus, before the application of malus and then clawback.
In addition to reductions to individuals bonuses, the Committee considers and makes collective adjustments to the incentive pool for specific material risk and conduct events.
In 2016, the impact of these collective adjustments, resulting from both the direct financial impact on performance and the additional adjustments applied by the Committee, is a reduction of 150m.
We have also adjusted the incentive pool to take account of an assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, non-financial factors that can support the delivery of a strong risk management, control and conduct culture and other factors including reputation, impact on customers, markets and other stakeholders.
Remuneration levels Barclays is a long-standing supporter of the Living Wage.
As an accredited Living Wage employer, Barclays commits to ensure that all permanent UK employees and those UK employees of third party contractors who provide services to us at our sites, are paid at least the current London or UK Living Wage.
This is a commitment which we have also extended to all our UK employed apprentices.
Barclays is also fully committed to addressing pay inequality.
Barclays work in this area is illustrated by recent union pay deals and the repositioning of the incentive pools over recent years.
Over the past few years, we have consciously redirected the bonus pool funding, providing proportionally more to junior employees.
For UK employees, average Total Compensation fixed pay plus bonus for Managing Directors has reduced materially since 2010 broadly in line with the reduction in the incentive pool.
Over the same period, junior populations have been protected and have seen small increases in Total Compensation despite a challenging business environment.
Similarly, salaries have been consciously increased for those within lower corporate grades within the UK.
The UK pay deal which was in place for the 2014-2016 period provided non-management populations primarily outside of the Investment Bank with a 7.5% merit increase over the three-year period.
A new three-year pay deal with Unite was reached in January 2017 which commits for the non-management population to a 7.5% merit increase over the 2017-2019 period and also commits to a minimum increase of 10% for the most junior graded employees.
Remuneration structure The remuneration structure for employees is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, set out in detail in the DRP which is at pages 108 to 120 of this report and for which shareholder approval is being sought at the 2017 AGM.
The primary exception being that the executive Directors participate in the Barclays LTIP.
Employees receive salary, pension and other benefits and are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus.
Employees in some customer-facing businesses participate in formulaic incentive plans including plans which have good customer outcomes as the primary performance measure.
The plans also recognise how results have been achieved in line with Barclays Values.
Some senior employees also receive RBP.
For executive Directors, under the new DRP, salary and RBP are replaced by Fixed Pay.
Remuneration of MRTs is subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio of variable to total fixed pay.
Capital requirements regulation CRR quantitative disclosures on MRTs are set out on pages 176 and 177 of Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
The remuneration of employees engaged in control functions is determined independently from the business they support and within the parameters of the incentive pool allocated to them by the Committee.
106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Fixed remuneration Salary Salaries reflect individuals skills and experience and are reviewed annually in the context of annual performance assessment.
They are increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility or a change in the appropriate market rate.
Salaries may also be increased in line with local statutory requirements and in line with union and works council commitments.
Role Based Pay A small number of senior employees receive a class of fixed pay called RBP to recognise the seniority, breadth and depth of their RBP role.
Pension and The provision of a competitive package of benefits is important to attracting and retaining the talented staff needed to deliver benefits Barclays strategy.
Employees have access to a range of country-specific company-funded benefits, including pension schemes, healthcare, life assurance and Barclays share plans as well as other voluntary employee funded benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits is defined and controlled.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Annual bonuses incentivise and reward the achievement of Group, business and individual objectives, and reward employees for demonstrating individual behaviours in line with Barclays Values.
The ability to recognise performance through variable remuneration enables the Group to control its cost base flexibly and to react to events and market circumstances.
Bonuses remain a key feature of remuneration practice in the highly competitive and mobile market for talent in the financial services sector.
The Committee is careful to control the proportion of variable to fixed remuneration paid to individuals.
From 2016, the typical deferral structures are: For MRTs: For non-MRTs: Incentive award Amount deferred Incentive award Amount deferred 500,000 40% of total award Up to 65,000 0% 500,000 to 1,000,000 60% of total award 65,000 Graduated level of deferral 1,000,000 60% up to 1,000,000 100% above 1,000,000 Deferred bonuses are generally delivered in equal portions as deferred cash and deferred shares subject to the rules of the deferred cash and share plans as amended from time to time and continued service.
From 2016, deferred bonuses are subject to either a 3, 5 or 7 year deferral period in line with regulatory requirements.
Share plans Alignment of senior employees with shareholders is achieved through deferral of incentive pay.
We also encourage wider employee shareholding through the all-employee share plans.
82% of the global employee population excluding Africa is eligible to participate.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 107 Go Gov vernance: R ernance: Remuner emunera ation r tion report eport Directors remuneration policy This section sets out the proposed new Barclays forward-looking remuneration policy for Directors, which has evolved from the existing policy and explains each element of remuneration and how it operates.
The policy described in this section is intended to apply for three years beginning on the date of the 2017 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
The existing policy can be found on pages 100 to 110 of the 2013 Annual Report or at home.
Remuneration policy for executive Directors Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures A.
Fixed pay Fixed Pay Fixed Pay is determined with reference to market practice Fixed Pay for executive Directors is set within To reward skills and experience and historical market data on which the Committee receives the benchmark range determined by the appropriate for the breadth and independent advice, and reflects the individuals experience Committee taking into account their depth of the role and to provide and role.
the basis for a competitive Executive Directors total compensation is benchmarked The maximum Fixed Pay is 2,350,000 for Jes remuneration package against comparable roles in the following banks: Bank of Staley Group Chief Executive and 1,650,000 America, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche for Tushar Morzaria Group Finance Director.
Bank, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase & Co, Lloyds, Morgan Stanley, These amounts are fixed and will not change Standard Chartered and UBS.
The Committee may amend during the policy period for these individuals.
the list of comparator companies to ensure it remains relevant to Barclays or if circumstances make this necessary There are no performance measures.
for example, as a result of takeovers or mergers.
50% of Fixed Pay is delivered in cash paid monthly, and 50% is delivered in shares.
The shares are delivered quarterly and are subject to a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years 20% each year.
As the executive Directors beneficially own the shares, they will be entitled to any dividends paid on those shares.
Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to Fixed Pay.
Pension Executive Directors receive an annual cash allowance in lieu The maximum annual cash allowance is To enable executive Directors of participation in a pension arrangement.
396,000 for Jes Staley Group Chief Executive to build long-term retirement and 200,000 for Tushar Morzaria Group savings Finance Director.
These amounts are fixed and will not change during the policy period for these individuals.
Benefits Executive Directors benefits provision includes, but is not The maximum value of the benefit is To provide a competitive and restricted to, private medical cover, annual health check, life determined by the nature of the benefit itself cost effective benefits package and ill health income protection, car cash allowance, and use and costs of provision may depend on external appropriate to the role and of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business factors, e. g. insurance costs.
In addition to the above, if an executive Director were to relocate, additional support would be provided for a defined and limited period of time in line with Barclays general employee mobility policy including, but not restricted to, the provision of temporary accommodation, tax advice, home leave related costs, payment of removal costs and relocation flights for the executive Director, spouse and children.
Barclays will pay the executive Directors tax on the relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will also not pay the tax on any other employment income.
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures B.
Variable pay Annual bonus Determination of annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity is To reward delivery of shortIndividual bonuses are discretionary and decisions are based 80% of Total fixed pay.
For these purposes term financial targets set each on the Committees judgement of executive Directors Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.
year, the individual performance in the year, measured against Group and The performance measures by which any performance of the executive personal objectives.
executive Directors bonus is assessed include Directors in achieving those financial and non-financial measures which targets, and their contribution Delivery structure also include risk-related measures and personal to delivering Barclays strategic Annual bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash and objectives.
In making its assessment of any objectives shares, a proportion of which may be deferred and or subject bonus, the Committee will consider financial to a holding period.
Delivery in part in shares with a factors to guide at least 60% of the bonus holding period increases Deferral proportions and vesting profiles will be structured so opportunity.
Any bonus is discretionary and alignment with shareholders.
that, in combination with any LTIP award, the proportion of any amount may be awarded from zero to the Deferred bonuses encourage variable pay that is deferred is no less than that required by maximum value.
longer term focus and retention regulations.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the Deferred bonuses are granted by the Committee or an measures and their respective weightings authorised sub-committee at its discretion, subject to the within each category.
The measures and relevant plan rules as amended from time to time.
weightings will be disclosed annually as part of the Annual report on Directors remuneration.
Dividend equivalents, in the form of additional shares, are payable on the vested deferred bonus shares, equal to the dividends paid or payable between the award date and the relevant release date.
If dividend equivalents are not permissible under regulations, the number of deferred bonus shares to be awarded will be based on a share price discounted by reference to an expected dividend yield over the vesting period.
In such circumstances, the Committee has discretion to reduce not increase the number of shares that vest if actual dividends paid over the period are materially lower than the original dividend assumption.
A notional discount may be applied to the deferred bonus awards for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent this is permitted by regulations currently a discount is permitted on up to 25% of variable pay where the conditions for applying such a discount are met.
Operation of risk and conduct adjustment, malus and clawback Any bonus awarded will reflect appropriate consideration in relation to Group risk and conduct events.
Individual bonus decisions may also reflect appropriate reductions in relation to specific risk and conduct events.
Any bonus is also subject to malus and clawback provisions.
The malus provisions enable the Committee to reduce the amount of unvested bonus including to nil prior to the unvested bonus vesting in specified circumstances, including, but not limited to: a participant deliberately misleading Barclays, the market and or shareholders in relation to the financial performance of the Barclays Group a participant causing harm to Barclays reputation or where his her actions have amounted to misconduct, incompetence or negligence a material restatement of the financial statements of the Barclays Group or any subsidiary, or the Group or any business unit suffering a material downturn in its financial performance a material failure of risk management in the Barclays Group a significant deterioration in the financial health of the Barclays Group.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 109 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures B.
Variable pay continued The clawback provisions enable amounts to be recovered after they have vested for a period of seven years from grant 10 years in specified circumstances e. g. where a relevant investigation is ongoing at the end of the initial seven year period in circumstances where i a participants actions or omissions have amounted to misbehaviour or material error and or ii Barclays or the relevant business unit has suffered a material failure of risk management.
Timing of receipt Non-deferred cash components of any bonus are paid following the performance year to which they relate, normally in March.
Non-deferred share bonuses are also awarded normally in March and are subject to a holding period after the payment of tax in line with regulations and with release no faster than permitted by regulations currently minimum of six months, increasing to one year for the 2017 performance year.
Deferred share bonuses are structured so that no deferred shares vest faster than permitted by regulations currently in five equal tranches with the first vesting on or around the third anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of grant.
Vesting is also subject to the provisions of the plan rules including employment and the malus and clawback provisions as explained above.
Any shares that vest are subject to an additional holding period after payment of tax in line with regulations and with release no faster than permitted by regulations currently minimum of six months, increasing to one year for the 2017 performance year.
110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
Variable pay continued Long Term Incentive Plan Determination of LTIP award The maximum annual LTIP award is 120% of LTIP award LTIP awards are made by the Committee following discussion Total fixed pay.
For these purposes Total fixed To reward execution of of recommendations made by the Chairman for the Group pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.
Barclays strategy over a Chief Executives LTIP award and by the Group Chief Vesting is dependent on performance multi-year period Executive for other executive Directors LTIP awards based measures and service.
on satisfactory performance over the prior year.
Long-term performance Forward-looking performance measures will be measurement, deferral and Delivery structure based on financial performance and other holding periods encourage a LTIP awards are granted subject to the plan rules and are long-term strategic measures.
The Committee long-term view and align satisfied in Barclays shares although they may be satisfied has discretion to change the weightings but executive Directors interests in other instruments as may be required by regulation.
financial measures will be at least 70% of the with those of shareholders.
Measures and weightings Malus and clawback provisions LTIP awards are structured so that when combined with the will be set in advance of each grant.
The discourage excessive riskannual bonus the proportion of variable pay that is deferred threshold and maximum level of performance taking and inappropriate is no less than that required by regulations.
for each financial performance measure will be behaviours For each award, forward-looking performance measures are disclosed annually as part of the Annual report set at grant and there is no retesting allowed of those on Directors remuneration.
The Committee has, within the parameters set vesting applies between threshold and out opposite, the flexibility to vary the weighting of maximum for the financial measures and performance measures and calibration for each award prior weightings with no more than 25% vesting at to its grant.
The Committee has discretion, and in line with the plan rules approved by shareholders, in exceptional circumstances to amend targets, measures, or the number of awards if an event happens for example, a major transaction that, in the opinion of the Committee, causes the original targets or measures to be no longer appropriate or such adjustment to be reasonable.
The Committee also has the discretion to reduce the vesting of any award, including to nil, if it deems that the outcome is not consistent with performance delivered.
Dividend equivalents, in the form of additional shares, are payable on the vested deferred shares, equal to the dividends paid or payable between the award date and the relevant release date.
If dividend equivalents are not permissible under regulations, the number of shares to be awarded will be based on a share price discounted by reference to an expected dividend yield over the vesting period.
A notional discount may be applied to LTIP awards for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent this is permitted by regulations currently a discount is permitted on up to 25% of variable pay where the conditions for applying such a discount are met.
Operation of malus and clawback The achievement of performance measures determines the extent to which LTIP awards will vest.
Awards are also subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a period of seven years 10 years in specific circumstances from the date of award which enables the Committee to reduce the vesting level of awards including to nil.
This is explained further in the annual bonus paragraphs above.
Timing of receipt Barclays LTIP awards are structured so that no award vests before the third anniversary of grant and an award vests no faster than permitted by regulations currently in five equal tranches with the first tranche vesting on or around the third anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date.
Any shares that vest are subject to an additional holding period after payment of tax in line with regulations, with restrictions lifting no faster than permitted by regulations currently minimum of six months, increasing to one year for the 2017 performance year.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 111 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Remuneration policy for executive Directors continued Element and purpose Operation Maximum value and performance measures C. Other All employee share plans Executive Directors are entitled to participate in: i Savings between 5 and the maximum set To provide an opportunity for by Barclays which will be no more than the i Barclays Sharesave under which they can make monthly executive Directors to HMRC maximum per month.
There are no savings over a period of three or five years linked to the voluntarily invest in the performance measures.
grant of an option over Barclays shares which can be at a Company through UK HMRC discount of up to 20% on the share price set at the start.
ii Contributions of between 10 and the employee tax advantaged maximum set by Barclays which will be no share schemes ii Barclays Sharepurchase under which they can make more than the HMRC maximum per tax contributions monthly or lump sum out of pre-tax pay year which Barclays may match up to if based in the UK which are used to acquire Barclays HMRC maximum current match is 600. shares.
There are no performance measures.
Previous legacy awards Awards granted and or payments agreed at a time where a In line with existing arrangements.
To honour existing awards and previous policy, approved by shareholders, was in place, may payments be released and or paid in accordance with such previous policy notwithstanding that such awards and or payments may not be in line with the new policy described above.
Shareholding requirement Executive Directors must build up a shareholding of 200% of Barclays shares worth a minimum of 200% of To further enhance the Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension within five years Total fixed pay must be held within five years alignment of shareholders and from the date of appointment as executive Director.
They plus a shareholding of 100% of Total fixed pay executive Directors interests in have a reasonable period to build up to this requirement or pro-rata thereof for two years post long-term value creation again if it is not met because of a significant share price termination.
Executive Directors must also continue to hold a shareholding for two years post-termination as follows: i if the executive Director has been employed for more than five years: 100% of Total fixed pay: or ii if the e xecutive Director has been employed for less than five years: either a grow their holding to the pro-rated requirement if the pro-rated requirement has not been met.
Directors would only be allowed to sell shares to pay for tax liabilities which crystallise when deferred awards vest on or after termination: or b if the pro-rated requirement has been exceeded, executive Directors would be allowed to sell shares above this requirement and also sell shares to pay for tax liabilities which crystallise when deferred awards vest on or after termination.
Shares that count towards the requirement are beneficially owned shares including any vested share awards subject only to holding periods including vested LTIPs, vested deferred share bonuses, Fixed Pay shares, and RBP shares.
Shares from unvested deferred share bonuses and unvested LTIPs do not count towards the requirement.
Outside appointments Executive Directors may accept one non-executive Director Not applicable.
To encourage self-development board appointment in another listed company.
and allow for the introduction The Chairmans approval must be sought before accepting of external insight and practice an appointment.
Fees may be retained by the executive Director.
Neither of the executive Directors currently hold an outside appointment.
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the table on pages 108 to 112 Performance measures and targets The Committee selects financial performance measures which are fundamental to delivery against the Banks strategy and are considered to be the most important financial measures used by the executive Directors to oversee the direction of the business.
The non-financial performance measures and sources of data are chosen to represent key indicators of sustainable performance that are robustly monitored and reported on to management.
The measures are determined in consultation with major shareholders.
Financial targets are set to be stretching but achievable and are aligned to enhancing shareholder value.
In respect of the LTIP, the financial measures, weightings and targets will be disclosed at the start of the relevant performance period.
In respect of the annual bonus, the financial measures and weightings will be disclosed at the start of the relevant performance year.
The Committee is of the opinion that the financial targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive in respect of the Company and that it would be detrimental to disclose details at the start of the relevant performance year.
Performance against the targets will be disclosed at the end of the relevant peformance year in that years remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
The existing Balanced Scorecard has evolved into a Performance Measurement framework which better reflects progress towards our strategic and non-financial goals.
Enhancements to the available sources of management information and reporting, ranging from internal dashboards to external third party measures, allows for a more holistic view of sustainable business performance, rather than focusing on a few narrowly defined targets.
The evaluation will focus on key performance measures many continuing from the Balanced Scorecard, with a detailed retrospective disclosure on progress throughout the period against each category, together with supporting rationale for payments.
Changes in remuneration policy for 2017 The following table provides a summary of the changes to the DRP for 2017: Element Change Rationale for change Fixed Pay Consolidate salary and RBP into a single Fixed Pay Simplicity, transparency.
element delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares subject to a 5 year holding period lifting pro-rata.
Fixed Pay will not change during the policy period for either of the current executive Directors.
Pension Continue pension allowance as a separate allowance: Supports simplified approach to Fixed Pay for existing executive Directors, amount unchanged but fixed for the duration of this policy for new hires, pension allowance limited to 10% of Fixed Pay.
Variable pay Combine annual bonus and LTIP for deferral purposes, Mitigates the global competitive impact of while retaining maximum variable at 200% of Total fixed longer deferral periods and holding periods pay and 60:40 split between maximum LTIP and annual under the PRA Remuneration Rules and the bonus.
EBA Guidelines on sound remuneration policies.
Bonus: financial performance measures at least 60%.
LTIP: financial performance measures at least 70%.
Dividends Recreates shareholder alignment lost through regulatory dividend prohibition.
Where regulatory constraints prevent dividend alignment, use discounted share price to calculate number of shares under award.
Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares that vest if actual dividends paid are materially lower than original dividend assumption.
Shareholding requirement Increase requirement to 200% of Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Longer and stronger shareholder alignment Pay plus Pension from 400% of salary.
equivalent to 457% of salary for CEO.
Introduce shareholding requirement of 2 years post termination of 100% of Total fixed pay or pro-rata thereof.
Employment contracts For new hires, 6 months notice from the Company and 6 Remove asymmetry for notice periods.
months notice from the executive Director.
Alignment between the employee and the Company.
Leavers Apply eligible leaver treatment to deferred bonus and LTIP Partially mitigates the global competitive awards from 5 years except for termination for gross impact of longer deferral periods increasing misconduct.
Ability to apply malus for the full vesting from 3 years to 7 years and holding periods period maintained.
under the PRA Remuneration Rules and the EBA Guidelines respectively.
Pro-ration of LTIP for eligible leavers retained but based on 4 year performance period, i. e. includes assessment period Alignment to the EBA Guidelines for prior to grant.
performance assessment prior to award.
Clawback extended to 10 years in specific circumstances.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 113 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Differences between the remuneration policy of the executive Directors and the policy for all employees of the Barclays Group The structure of remuneration packages for executive Directors is closely aligned with that for the broader employee population.
Employees receive salary, pension and benefits and are eligible to be considered for a bonus and to participate in all-employee share plans.
The broader employee population typically does not have a contractual limit on the quantum of remuneration and does not receive RBP which is paid only to some, but not all, MRTs and other senior employees.
Under the new DRP, executive Directors do not receive RBP.
As with executive Directors, variable pay for the broader employee population is performance based.
Variable pay for executive Directors and the broader employee population is subject to deferral requirements.
Executive Directors and other MRTs are subject to deferral at a minimum rate of 40% for variable pay of less than 500,000 or 60% for variable pay between 500,000 and 1,000,000 or 60% up to 1,000,000 and 100% above 1,000,000 for variable pay of more than 1,000,000.
For non-MRTs, bonuses in excess of 65,000 are currently subject to a graduated level of deferral.
The terms of deferred bonus awards for executive Directors and the wider employee population are broadly the same, in particular the vesting of all deferred bonuses subject to service and malus conditions.
The broader employee population does not currently participate in the Barclays LTIP.
How shareholder views and broader employee pay are taken into account by the Committee in setting policy and making remuneration decisions We recognise that remuneration is an area of particular interest to shareholders and that in setting and considering changes to remuneration it is critical that we listen to and take into account their views.
Accordingly, a series of meetings are held each year with major shareholders and shareholder representative groups.
The Committee Chairman attends these meetings, accompanied by senior Barclays employees including the Group Reward and Performance Director and the Company Secretary.
The Committee notes that shareholder views on some matters are not always unanimous, but values the insight and engagement that these interactions provide, including the expression of sometimes different views.
This engagement is meaningful and helpful to the Committee in its work and contributes directly to the decisions made by the Committee.
Shareholders feedback has been incorporated into the new DRP.
The Committee takes account of the pay and employment conditions of the broader employee base when it considers the remuneration of the executive Directors.
The Committee receives and reviews analyses of summary remuneration proposals for employees across all of the Groups businesses.
When the Committee considers executive Directors remuneration, it therefore makes that consideration in the context of a detailed understanding of remuneration for the broader employee population to ensure consistency throughout the Group.
114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Directors policy on recruitment Barclays operates in a highly specialised sector and many of its competitors for talent are outside of the UK.
The Committees approach to remuneration on recruitment is to pay no more than is necessary to attract the best candidates to the role.
Approval of the remuneration packages offered on appointment to any new executive Director is a specific requirement of the Committees Terms of Reference.
The terms of such packages must be approved by the Committee in consultation with the Chairman and except for the terms of his own remuneration the Group Chief Executive.
Any new executive Directors package would include the same elements as those of the existing executive Directors, as shown below.
Element of remuneration Commentary Maximum value Fixed Pay Determined by experience, market practice, market As determined by the Committee with conditions and ability to recruit.
Fixed Pay will only exceed amounts paid to current executive Directors, as considered reasonable by the Committee, by reference to these factors.
If on appointment Fixed Pay is equal to or greater than maximum stated for the relevant role in the policy for current executive Director, no changes are allowed over the policy period.
If on appointment Fixed Pay is at a level below the maximum stated for the relevant role in the policy for current executive Director, the Committee retains the discretion to realign Fixed Pay over a transitional period which may mean that annual Fixed Pay increases for the new appointee are required up to such maximum amounts.
Pension In line with policy.
Benefits In line with policy.
Annual Bonus In line with policy.
Long Term Incentive Plan In line with policy.
Buy-out The Committee can consider buying out forfeited bonus The value of any buy-out is not included within opportunity or incentive awards that the new executive the maximum incentive levels above since it Director has forfeited as a result of accepting the relates to a buy-out of forfeited bonus appointment with Barclays, subject to proof of forfeiture opportunity or incentive awards from a where applicable.
As required by the PRA Remuneration Rules, any award made to compensate for forfeited remuneration from the new executive Directors previous employment may not be more generous than, and must mirror as far as possible the expected value, timing and form of delivery of, the terms of the forfeited remuneration and must be in the best long-term interests of Barclays.
Barclays deferral policy shall however apply as a minimum to any buy-out of annual bonus opportunity.
Where a senior executive is promoted to the Board, his or her existing contractual commitments agreed prior to his or her appointment may still be honoured in accordance with the terms of the relevant commitment including vesting of any pre-existing deferred bonus or long-term incentive awards.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 115 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Executive Directors policy on payment for loss of office including or following a takeover The Committees approach to payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, individual performance, contractual obligations and the terms of the deferred bonus plans and LTIPs in which the executive Director participates.
Provisions relating to executive Directors termination Standard provision Policy Details Notice periods in executive For existing executive Directors, 12 months notice from the Executive Directors may be required to work Directors service contracts Company and six months notice from the executive Director.
during the notice period or may be placed on garden leave or, if not required to work the full For new executive Director hires, six months notice from the notice period, may be provided with pay in lieu Company and six months notice from the executive Director.
of notice subject to mitigation where relevant.
Pay during notice period or Fixed Pay payable and continuation of pension and other Fixed Pay delivered in cash is payable in phased payment in lieu of notice per contractual benefits while an employee during notice period.
instalments or lump sum and subject to service contracts mitigation if paid in instalments and executive Director obtains alternative employment during the notice period or while on garden leave.
Fixed Pay delivered in shares is delivered on the next quarterly delivery date and is pro-rated for the number of days from the start of the relevant quarter to the termination date.
Where Barclays elects to terminate the employment with immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice, the executive Director will not receive any shares that would otherwise have been payable during the period for which the payment in lieu is made unless required otherwise by regulations or local law.
In the event of termination for gross misconduct neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice is given.
Treatment of annual bonus on No automatic entitlement to bonus on termination, but may termination be considered at the Committees discretion, pro-rated for service, and subject to performance measures being met.
No bonus would be payable in the case of gross misconduct or resignation.
Treatment of unvested In the case of death or if the executive Director is an eligible In an eligible leaver situation, deferred bonus deferred bonus awards leaver the executive Director would continue to be eligible to awards may be considered for release in full on be considered for unvested portions of deferred awards, the scheduled release dates unless the subject to the rules of the relevant plan, unless the Committee determines otherwise in Committee determines otherwise in exceptional exceptional circumstances.
Eligible leaver is defined as leaving due to shares are subject to an additional holding injury, disability or ill health, retirement, redundancy, the period in line with regulations currently business or company which employs the executive Director minimum of six months, increasing to one year ceasing to be part of the Group or the employer terminating for the 2017 performance year.
employment, other than in circumstances which amount to gross misconduct or dismissal for cause.
In addition, the Committee will apply its discretion to treat resignation on or after the fifth anniversary of the date of grant as eligible leaver status.
Outstanding deferred bonus awards would lapse if the executive Director leaves by reason of resignation prior to fifth anniversary, is terminated for gross misconduct or cause, or is otherwise not designated an eligible leaver.
Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil and once vested are subject to clawback provisions as described above.
In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event, the Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether all outstanding awards would vest early or whether they should continue in the same or revised form following the change of control.
The Committee may also determine that participants may exchange existing awards for awards over shares in an acquiring company with the agreement of that company.
116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Standard provision Policy Details Treatment of unvested awards In the case of death or if the executive Director is an eligible In an eligible leaver situation, awards may be under the LTIP leaver the executive Director would continue to be entitled to considered for release on the scheduled release be considered for an award.
Eligible leaver is defined as dates, pro-rated for time over the whole leaving due to injury, disability or ill health, retirement, performance period, including the assessment redundancy, the business or company which employs the period prior to grant for awards granted on or executive Director ceasing to be part of the Group or for any after 10 May 2017 and performance, subject other reason if the Committee decides at its discretion.
In to the Committees discretion to determine addition, the Committee will apply its discretion to treat otherwise in exceptional circumstances, in resignation on or after the fifth anniversary of the date of accordance with the plan rules, as amended grant as eligible leaver status.
Outstanding unvested awards from time to time.
After release, the shares under the LTIP would lapse if the executive Director leaves by net of deductions for tax are subject to an reason of resignation prior to fifth anniversary, is terminated additional holding period currently minimum for gross misconduct, or is otherwise not designated an of six months, increasing to one year for the eligible leaver.
Awards are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of awards including to nil and once vested, awards are subject to clawback provisions as described above.
In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event but excluding an internal reorganisation of the Group, the Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether all outstanding awards vest subject to the achievement of any performance conditions.
The Committee has discretion to apply a pro-rata reduction to reflect the unexpired part of the vesting period.
The Committee may also determine that participants may exchange awards for awards over shares in an acquiring company with the agreement of that company.
In the event of an internal reorganisation, the Committee may determine that outstanding awards will be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
Repatriation Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, where an executive Director has been relocated at the commencement of employment, the Company may pay for the executive Directors repatriation costs in line with Barclays general employee mobility policy including temporary accommodation, payment of removal costs and relocation flights for the executive Director, spouse and children.
The Company will pay the executive Directors tax on the relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will also not pay tax on his or her other income relating to the termination of employment.
Other Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, the Company may pay for the executive Directors legal fees and tax advice relating to the termination of employment and provide outplacement services.
The Company may pay the executive Directors tax on these particular costs.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 117 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Illustrative scenarios for executive Directors remuneration The charts below show the potential value of the current executive Directors 2017 total remuneration under the new DRP in three scenarios: Minimum i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension and benefits, Maximum i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and the maximum variable pay that may be awarded and Mid-point i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and 50% of the maximum variable pay that may be awarded.
For the purposes of these charts, the value of benefits is based on an estimated annual value for 2017.
The scenarios do not reflect share price movement between award and vesting.
A significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive Directors is variable and is therefore performance-related.
It is also subject to deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback.
Total remuneration opportunity: Group Chief Executive m Total remuneration opportunity: Group Finance Director m 9 9 Total 8.41 39% 7.5 7.5 Total 5.66 6 6 Total 5.59 39% 29% 29% 40% 26% 4.5 4.5 Total 3.74 19% 30% Total 2.91 3 3 26% 7% 10% 20% 20% 20% Total 1.89 21% 14% 40% 12%6%4% 1.5 1.5 22% 15% 44% 21% 14% 40% 22% 15% 44% 0 0 MinimumMid-point Maximum MinimumMid-point Maximum Bonus LTIP Bonus LTIP Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and Benefits Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and Benefits In the above illustrative scenarios, benefits include regular contractual benefits.
Additional ad hoc benefits may arise, for example, overseas relocation of executive Directors, but will always be provided in line with the DRP.
118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy for non-executive Directors This section provides details of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive Directors.
Element and purpose Operation Maximum value Fees The Chairman and Deputy Chairman are paid an Fees are reviewed against those for non-executive Reflect individual responsibilities all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The Directors in companies of similar size and complexity.
and membership of Board Chairman has a minimum time commitment Other than in exceptional circumstances, fees will not Committees and are set to equivalent to at least 80% of a full-time role.
The increase by more than 20% above the current fee attract non-executive Directors other non-executive Directors receive a basic Board levels during this policy period basic fees last who have relevant skills and fee, with additional fees payable where individuals increased in 2011. experience to oversee the serve as a member or Chairman of a Committee of implementation of our strategy the Board.
Fees are set at a level which Fees are reviewed each year by the Board as a whole.
reflects the role, responsibilities 30,000 Chairman: 100,000 after tax and national and time commitment which insurance contributions per annum of each are expected from the non-executive Directors basic fee is used to purchase Chairman, Deputy Chairman Barclays shares which are retained on the nonand non-executive Directors executive Directors behalf until they retire from the Board.
Some non-executive Directors may also receive fees as directors of subsidiary companies of Barclays PLC.
In the case of certain subsidiary appointments, such additional remuneration is approved by the Board Nominations Committee.
Benefits The Chairman is provided with private medical cover subject to the terms of the Barclays scheme rules from time to time, and is provided with the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Benefits which are minor in nature and in any event do not exceed a cost of 500 may be provided to non-executive Directors in specific circumstances.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to join Barclays pension plans.
Expenses The Chairman and non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred for business reasons.
Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid by Barclays.
Bonus and share plans The Chairman is required to be eligible to participate in HMRC employee tax advantaged share schemes, due to his 80% of a full-role time commitment, but has opted not to participate.
The Chairman is not eligible to participate in any other Barclays cash, share or long-term incentive plans.
All other non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in Barclays cash, share or long-term incentive plans.
Notice and termination Each non-executive Directors appointment is for an initial six year term, renewable at Barclays discretion for a provisions single term of three years thereafter and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Notice period Chairman: 12 months from the Company six months from the Chairman.
Non-executive Directors: six months from the Company six months from the non-executive Director.
Termination payment policy The Chairmans appointment may be terminated by Barclays on 12 months notice or immediately in which case 12 months fees and contractual benefits are payable in instalments at the times they would have been received had the appointment continued, but subject to mitigation if he or she were to obtain alternative employment.
There are similar termination provisions for non-executive Directors based on 6 months fees.
No continuing payments of fees or benefits are due if a non-executive Director is not re-elected by shareholders at the Barclays AGM.
In accordance with the policy table above, any new Chairman and Deputy Chairman would be paid an all-inclusive fee only and any new non-executive Director would be paid a basic fee for their appointment as a non-executive Director, plus fees for their participation on and or chairing of any Board committees, time apportioned in the first year as necessary.
No sign-on payments are offered to non-executive Directors.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 119 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Service contracts and letters of appointment All executive Directors have a service contract whereas all non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment.
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment respectively are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The dates of the current Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are shown in the table below.
Effective date Chairman John McFarlane 1 January 2015 non-executive Director, 24 April 2015 Chairman Executive Directors Jes Staley 1 December 2015 Tushar Morzaria 15 October 2013 Non-executive Directors Michael Ashley 18 September 2013 Tim Breedon 1 November 2012 Mary Francis 1 October 2016 Crawford Gillies 1 May 2014 Sir Gerry Grimstone 1 January 2016 Reuben Jeffery III 16 July 2009 Dambisa Moyo 1 May 2010 Diane fide Saint Victor 1 March 2013 Diane Schueneman 25 June 2015 Steve Thieke 7 January 2014 All Directors are put forward for re-election at each AGM, unless they have indicated that they will not seek re-election at the AGM.
Discretion In addition to the various operational discretions that the Committee can exercise in the performance of its duties including those discretions set out in the Companys share plans, the Committee reserves the right to make either minor or administrative amendments to the policy to benefit its operation or to make more material amendments in order to comply with new laws, regulations and or regulatory guidance.
The Committee would only exercise this right if it believed it was in the best interests of the Company to do so and where it is not possible, practicable or proportionate to seek or await shareholder approval in General Meeting.
120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration This section explains how our Directors remuneration policy was implemented during 2016.
Executive Directors Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2016 remuneration audited The following table shows a single total figure for 2016 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive Director together with comparative figures for 2015.
Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors audited Salary Jes Staley has been paid a salary of 1,200,000 per annum since his appointment to the Group Chief Executive role on 1 December 2015.
Tushar Morzaria was paid a salary of 800,000 per annum as Group Finance Director.
Role Based Pay RBP Executive Directors received RBP which was delivered quarterly in shares, subject to a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years 20% each year.
The value shown is of shares at the date awarded.
Taxable benefits Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are discretionary and are typically awarded in Q1 following the financial year to which they relate.
The Committee considered the executive Directors performance against the financial 50% weighting and Balanced Scorecard 35% weighting performance measures which had been set to reflect strategic priorities for 2016.
Performance against their individual personal objectives 15% weighting was assessed on an individual basis.
2016 annual bonus outcomes Financial 50% weighting The approach taken to assessing financial performance against each of the financial measures is based on a straight-line outcome between 25% for threshold performance and 100% applicable to each measure for achievement of maximum performance.
The formulaic outcome from 2016 performance against the financial measures gave a total of 29% out of 50% being payable attributable to those measures.
A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.
Financial Threshold Maximum 2016 2016 performance measure Weighting 25% 100% Actual Outcome Profit before tax excluding notable items 20% 3.45bn 4.20bn 3.65bn 9% Costs excluding notable items 10% 14.6bn 13.7bn 15.3bn 0% CET1 ratio 20% 11.1% 11.6% 12.4% 20% Total Financial 50% 29% When reflecting upon the appropriate 2016 bonus, the Committee considered the impact of the deferral changes on the formulaic outcomes against the financial measures.
In particular, the Committee noted that while the decision to accelerate the deferral charges would improve the Groups operational flexibility going into 2017 and beyond, it would also lead to a lower 2016 bonus outcome than could have been justified absent the changes.
However, on balance, the Committee felt that the overall outcomes were appropriate particularly given the ongoing focus to rebalance towards improving shareholder returns.
Balanced Scorecard 35% weighting Progress in relation to each of the 5Cs of the Balanced Scorecard was assessed by the Committee.
The Committee took a similar approach as for 2015 i. e. based on a three-point scale in relation to each measure, with 0% to 2% for below target, 3% or 4% for a met target, and 5% to 7% for above target progress against a particular Balanced Scorecard component.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 121 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Based on this approach to assessing performance against 2016 Balanced Scorecard milestones, the Committee agreed a 18% outcome out of a maximum of 35%.
Further details in respect of performance in each category can be found on pages 16 to 17.
2016 Outcome out 2016 2016 of maximum Balanced Scorecard 5Cs Weighting Metric Target Actual 7% for each C Customer and Client 7% PCB, Barclaycard and Africa Banking weighted 4th 4th 4% average ranking of RNPS v peer sets Client Franchise Risk 6th 5th Colleague 7% Sustained engagement of colleagues score 77-79% 75% 3% % women in senior leadership 24% 24% Citizenship 7% Citizenship Plan initiatives on track or ahead Plan targets 8 10 5% Conduct 7% Conduct Reputation YouGov Survey 5.5-5.6 10 5.4 10 2% a b Company 7% Return on tangible equity 4.8% 4.4% bc Cost:Income ratio 70% 72% 4% CET1 ratio 11.3% 12.4% Total Balanced Scorecard 35% 18% Notes a Company metrics have been updated to reflect the 1 March 2016 strategy announcement.
c Cost:Income ratio expressed as total operating expenses of the Group, including Africa, divided by the total income of these businesses.
Individual outcomes including assessment of personal objectives Performance against each of the executive Directors individual personal objectives 15% weighting overall was assessed by the Committee on an individual basis.
i Jes Staley A summary of the assessment for Jes Staley against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.
Performance measure Weighting Outcome Financial See table on page 121 50% 29% Balanced Scorecard 5Cs See table above 35% 18% Personal objectives Judgemental assessment see below 15% 13% Total 100% 60% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 60% The Committee assessed Jes Staleys performance against his 2016 personal objectives as set out on page 97 of the 2015 Annual Report and concluded that Jes Staley had delivered a very strong performance throughout the year.
By the end of 2016, a clear new strategy was firmly embedded and a new Core organisational structure consistent with structural reform has been implemented.
The Core businesses have performed well, delivering improved profitability and cost income efficiency.
At the same time significant progress has been made in exiting the Non-Core businesses.
Jes Staley has demonstrated strong leadership, strengthened the management team and has instilled a more effective performance ethic and culture within the organisation.
Given his very strong personal performance, the Committee judged that 13% of a maximum of 15% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.
In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity being achieved.
The resulting 2016 bonus is 1,318,000 of which 70% is deferred under the Share Value Plan and will vest in five equal tranches from the third to seventh anniversary subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time.
ii Tushar Morzaria A summary of the assessment for Tushar Morzaria against his specific performance measures is provided in the following table.
Performance measure Weighting Outcome Financial See table on page 121 50% 29% Balanced Scorecard 5Cs See table above 35% 18% Personal objectives Judgemental assessment see below 15% 14% Total 100% 61% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 61% The Committee assessed Tushar Morzarias performance against his 2016 personal objectives as set out on page 97 of the 2015 Annual Report and concluded that Tushar Morzaria had delivered an outstanding performance in 2016.
In doing so, the Committee noted the role provided by Tushar Morzaria in reshaping the business and, in particular, recognised his contribution in the significant progress in exiting Non-Core, resulting in a reduction of 22bn in Risk Weighted Assets and his focus in delivering an organisation with a significantly higher CET1 ratio and lower Cost:Income ratio.
In doing so, it was also noted that Tushar Morzaria has continued to develop very strong working relationships with shareholders, investors and regulators, while also improving the performance delivery within the Finance Functions.
Given his exceptional personal performance during 2016, the Committee judged that 14% of a maximum of 15% attributable to individual objectives was appropriate.
In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 61% of maximum bonus opportunity being achieved.
The resulting 2016 bonus is 854,000 of which 60% is deferred under the Share Value Plan and will vest in five equal tranches from the third to seventh anniversary subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time.
All shares whether deferred or not are subject to a further six month holding period from the point of release.
2016 bonuses are subject to clawback provisions and, additionally, unvested deferred 2016 bonuses are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil.
122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information LTIP The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzarias 2016 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the LTIP award granted in 2014 in respect of performance period 2014-2016 by reference to Q4 2016 average share price.
As Jes Staley was not a participant in this cycle, the LTIP figure in the single figure table is zero for him.
Release is dependent on, among other things, performance over the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016.
Straight-line vesting applied between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the RoRWA and loan loss rate measures.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows.
Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual % of award vesting Return on risk weighted assets 50% 23% of award vests for Average annual RoRWA 0.33% 0% RoRWA average annual RoRWA of 1.52% of 1.08% Loan loss rate 20% 7% of award vests for Average annual loan loss 50bps 20% average annual loan loss rate of 55bps or below rate of 70bps Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard was See below 14% assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 30%.
Each of the 5Cs in the Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting.
Total 34% A summary of the Committees assessment against the Balanced Scorecard performance measure over the three year performance period is provided below.
Vesting out of maximum 6% Category Performance for each C Customer and Client Net Promoter Score NPS performance against peers was 4th during the period.
Across key 3% product categories, notably UK current accounts and UK credit cards, Barclays NPS scores have improved with more customers advocating our brands.
Client Franchise Rank remained stable at 5th rank throughout the period, a positive result given the shift in strategy to focus on geographies and businesses of strength in the Investment Bank.
Colleague Continued improvement in the female representation across our senior leadership, rising 3% from 22% in 2014 to 24% at the end of 2016.
Colleague engagement improved from 72% in 2014 to 75% overall in 2016, a positive result in light of the change the organisation has undergone over the period.
Citizenship Continuing on from the successful Citizenship Plan, which closed 2015 with 10 out of 11 4% initiatives on or ahead of target, Barclays Group ex Africa exceeded objectives on all 6 initiatives in the first year of the Shared Growth Ambition.
Barclays Africa also delivered strong performance on investment in education and SME financing, both of which were on track for 2016.
Two objectives were off-track due to external challenges which impacted the delivery of planned employability and financial inclusion interventions although foundations are now established which will enable strong 2017 momentum.
Conduct Conduct Reputation, as measured by the YouGov survey, remained at or below 5.4 over 1% the period.
However, new conduct items and costs have reduced.
Company The CET1 ratio has strengthened significantly over the period, to 12.4% at the end of 2016.
3% However, returns excluding notable items both RoE and RoTE were below target through much of the period.
Total 14% The LTIP award is also subject to a discretionary underpin whereby the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group based on profit before tax.
The Committee was satisfied that this underpin was met, and accordingly determined that the award should be considered for release to the extent of 34% of the maximum number of shares under the total award.
The shares are scheduled to be released in March 2017.
After release, the shares are subject to an additional two year holding period.
Pension Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The cash allowance in 2016 was 33% of salary for Jes Staley and 25% of salary for Tushar Morzaria.
No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from any Barclays pension plans.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 123 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Executive Directors: other LTIP awards The Directors remuneration reporting regulations require inclusion in the single total figure of only the value of the LTIP awards whose last year of performance ends in the relevant financial year and whose vesting outcome is known.
For 2016, this is the award to Tushar Morzaria under the 2014-2016 LTIP cycle and further details are set out on page 123.
This section sets out other LTIP cycles in which the executive Directors participate, the outcome of which remains dependent on future performance.
LTIP awards to be granted during 2017 The Committee decided to make an award under the 2017-2019 LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria based on their performance in 2016 with a face value at grant of 120% of their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December 2016.
The 2017-2019 LTIP award will be subject to the following forward-looking performance measures.
Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Return on tangible equity RoTE 25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE Average RoTE excluding notable items of excluding notable items excluding notable items of 7.5% 9.5% CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory requirements 11% on 31 December 2017 CET1 ratio as at 31December 2019 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio 100 basis CET1 ratio 200 basis points above the points above the mandatory distribution MDRH restrictions hurdle MDRH Cost:Income ratio 20% 5% of award vests for average Average Cost:Income ratio of 58% excluding notable items Cost:Income ratio of 63% Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk adjustment framework agreed with the PRA.
The current framework measures performance against three broad categories Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Groups risk strategy.
Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Retrospective disclosure of performance will be made in the 2019 Remuneration report.
Strategic Non-financial 15% As noted on page 18, the existing Balanced Scorecard has evolved into a Performance Measurement framework in line with the objective of delivering a simplified Barclays through the strategic actions announced in March 2016.
The evaluation will focus on key performance measures many continuing from the Balanced Scorecard, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Performance against the Strategic Non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship.
Each of the three main categories has equal weighting.
Measures will likely include, but not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients.
Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics including women in senior leadership, Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures.
Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.
Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures.
The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.
Outstanding LTIP awards i LTIP awards granted during 2015 The performance measures for the awards made under the 2015-2017 LTIP cycle are shown below.
Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting a Net generated equity 30% 7.5% of award vests for Net Generated Equity Net Generated Equity of 1,844m of 1,363m Core return on risk weighted assets 20% 5% of award vests for average annual Core Average annual Core RoRWA of 1.81% RoRWA excluding own credit RoRWA of 1.34% Non-Core drag on return on equity 10% 2.5% of award vests for Non-Core drag on Non-Core drag on RoE of 2.97% RoE excluding notable items RoE of 4.02% Loan loss rate 10% 2.5% of award vests for average annual loan Average annual loan loss rate of 55bps or loss rate of 70bps below Balanced Scorecard 30% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 30%.
The targets within each of the 5Cs are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be made in the 2017 Remuneration report subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
Note a Net generated equity is a metric which converts changes in the CET1 ratio into an absolute capital equivalent measure.
For remuneration purposes, net generated equity will exclude inorganic actions such as rights issues, as determined by the Committee.
Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial and risk measures.
124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information ii LTIP awards granted during 2016 An award was made to Tushar Morzaria on 14 March 2016 under the 2016-2018 LTIP cycle at a share price on the date of grant of 1.6535, in accordance with our Directors remuneration policy.
This is the price used to calculate the face value below.
Jes Staley was not eligible for a grant under the 2016-2018 LTIP cycle.
% of Number Face value Performance fixed pay of shares at grant period Tushar Morzaria 120% 1,270,033 2,100,000 2016-2018 The performance measures for the 2016-2018 LTIP awards are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Return on tangible equity RoTE 25% 6.25% of award vests for average RoTE of Average RoTE of 10.0% excluding notable items 7.5% CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.
The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory requirements 11% on 31 December 2017 CET1 ratio as at 31 December 2018 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio of 11.6% CET1 ratio of 12.7% Cost:Income ratio excluding 20% 5% of award vests for average Cost:Income Average Cost:Income ratio of 58% notable items ratio of 66% Risk Scorecard 15% Performance against the Risk Scorecard is assessed by the Committee, with input from the Group Risk function, Board Risk Committee and Board Reputation Committee as appropriate, to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
The Risk Scorecard measures performance against three broad categories Risk Profile including Conduct, Control Environment and Risk Capability using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
Retrospective disclosure of performance will be made in the 2018 Remuneration report subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
Balanced Scorecard 15% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
Assessment will be made against progress towards the 2018 targets.
Executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 The executive Directors package for 2017, in line with the new DRP, will be implemented with effect from the 2017 AGM as follows: Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria Comments Fixed Pay 2,350,000 1,650,000 Fixed Pay replaces salary and Role Based Pay.
Fixed Pay delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares subject to 5 year holding period lifting pro rata.
No change in Fixed Pay from 2016 for Jes Staley.
Fixed Pay has increased to 1,650,000 from 1,550,000 for Tushar Morzaria.
Pension 396,000 200,000 No change from 2016. a a Maximum Bonus 80% of Total fixed pay 80% of Total fixed pay Total variable opportunity unchanged.
Bonus and LTIP combined for regulatory deferral purposes.
a a Maximum LTIP 120% of Total fixed pay 120% of Total fixed pay Note: a Total fixed pay is defined as Fixed Pay plus Pension.
The Committee concluded that an increase of 5.7%, being less than the increase paid to UK employees over the same period, was warranted but agreed that the executive Directors would not be eligible for any further increase in the next three years i. e. during the new policy period.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 125 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Clawback and malus Barclays may apply clawback if at any time during the seven year period from the date on which any variable remuneration is awarded: i there is reasonable evidence of individual misbehaviour or material error, and or ii the firm suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individuals proximity to, and responsibility for, that incident.
For variable remuneration awards granted to executive Directors in respect of 2016 onwards, the clawback period may be extended to 10 years in circumstances where the Company or a regulatory authority has commenced an investigation which could potentially lead to the application of clawback.
Malus provisions will continue to apply to unvested deferred awards.
Deferral A seven year deferral period with no vesting prior to the third anniversary of award, and vesting in equal tranches between the third and seventh year will apply to any 2017 deferred variable remuneration awarded to the executive Directors.
2017 Annual bonus performance measures Performance measures with appropriately stretching targets have been selected to cover a range of financial and non-financial goals that support the key strategic objectives of the Company.
The performance measures and weightings are shown below.
Financial 60% weighting Profit before tax excluding notable items 22.5% weighting Cost:Income ratio excluding notable items 15% weighting A performance target range has been set for each financial CET1 ratio 22.5% weighting measure.
Strategic Non-financial 20% As noted on page 18, the existing Balanced Scorecard has evolved into a Performance Measurement weighting framework in line with the objective of delivering a simplified Barclays through the strategic actions announced in March 2016.
Enhancements to the available sources of management information and reporting, ranging from internal dashboards to external third party measures, allow for a more holistic view of sustainable business performance, rather than focusing on a few narrowly defined targets.
Performance against the Strategic Non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 20%.
Personal 20% weighting The executive Directors have the following joint personal objectives for 2017: deliver on 2017 financial commitments including continued improvement in RoTE, Cost:Income ratio and continued build-up of our capital base CET1 ratio exit Non-Core and ensure successful reintegration of remaining assets businesses into Core achieve the sell-down of Barclays Africa Group Ltd to obtain accounting deconsolidation ensure successful implementation of the 2017 Structural Reform programme, including creation of the Service Company identify and implement as far as possible in 2017 a structural solution to ensure continued access to the single market in Europe manage risk and control effectively and make continued progress in resolving legacy conduct and litigation matters.
In addition, individual personal objectives for 2017 are as follows: Jes Staley: make continued progress towards a high performing culture in line with our Values while also strengthening employee engagement improve customer and client satisfaction while reducing the number of overall complaints strengthen succession planning pipeline for Group and Business Unit Functional Executive Committees and continue to improve percentage of women in senior leadership positions improve the Groups control environment and its operations and technology infrastructure.
Tushar Morzaria: demonstrate effective management of external relationships and reputation continue to strengthen team performance, talent pipeline and employee engagement in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury.
Detailed calibration of the Financial and Strategic targets is commercially sensitive and it is not appropriate to disclose this information externally on a prospective basis.
Disclosure of achievement will be made in the 2017 Annual Report subject to the targets no longer being commercially sensitive.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to amend the formulaic outcome of assessment against the targets.
Any exercise of discretion will be disclosed and explained.
126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Performance graph and table The performance graph below illustrates the performance of Barclays over the financial years from 2009 to 2016 in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
The index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
Total shareholder return rebased to 2008 Year ended 31 December 250 210 217 183 193 182 200 180 174 187 184 183 140 178 150 154 143 127 120 100 FTSE 100 Index Barclays PL P P C 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 In addition, the table below provides a summary of the total remuneration of the relevant Group Chief Executive over the same period as the previous graph.
For the purpose of calculating the value of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, data has been collated on a basis consistent with the single figure methodology.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2015 2016 John John Bob Bob Antony Antony Antony Antony John Jes Jes a b b c d Group Chief Executive Varley Varley Diamond Diamond Jenkins Jenkins Jenkins Jenkins McFarlane Staley Staley Group Chief Executive single figure of e f total remuneration 000s 2,050 4,567 11,070 1,892 529 1,602 5,467 3,399 305 277 4,233 Annual bonus against maximum opportunity % 0% 100% 80% 0% 0% 0% 57% 48% N A N A 60% Long-term incentive vesting against g g g g g g maximum opportunity % 50% 16% N A 0% N A N A 30% 39% N A N A N A Notes a Bob Diamond left the Board on 3 July 2012. b Antony Jenkins became Group Chief Executive on 30 August 2012 and left the Board on 16 July 2015. c John McFarlane was Executive Chairman from 17 July 2015 to 30 November 2015.
His fees, which remained unchanged, have been pro-rated for his time in the position.
He was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP.
d Jes Staley became Group Chief Executive on 1 December 2015. e This figure includes 5,745k tax equalisation as set out in the 2011 Remuneration report.
Bob Diamond was tax equalised on tax above the UK rate where that could not be offset by a double tax treaty.
f Antony Jenkins 2014 pay is higher than in earlier years since he declined a bonus in 2012 and 2013 and did not have LTIP vesting in those years.
g Not a participant in a long-term incentive award which vested in the period.
Percentage change in Group Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK based employees.
Fixed Pay Benefits Annual bonus a b c Group Chief Executive 0% 118% N A d Average based on UK employees 3.6% No change 0.1 % Notes a The 2015 figures for the Group Chief Executive are based on the Group Chief Executive, Jes Staley, and are annualised in order to provide a meaningful comparison of the year on year change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive and UK based employees.
b The percentage increase in benefits for the Group Chief Executive arises primarily as a result of relocation provided in 2016. c The Group Chief Executive did not receive an annual bonus in 2015. d Certain populations were excluded to enable a meaningful like for like comparison.
We have chosen UK based employees as the comparator group as it is the most representative group for pay structure comparisons.
Relative importance of spend on pay A year on year comparison of Group compensation costs and distributions to shareholders is shown below.
Group compensation costs m Dividends to shareholders m 2016 7,445 2016 757 a 2015 7,301 2015 1,081 02,500 5,0007,500 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 Note a 2015 Group compensation costs have been adjusted to exclude the impact of 429m gain on valuation of a component of the defined benefit liability.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 127 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Chairman and non-executive Directors Remuneration for non-executive Directors reflects their responsibilities and time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive Directors of comparable major UK companies.
Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2016 fees audited Fees Benefits Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman a John McFarlane 800 628 1 11 801 639 b Sir David Walker 285 6 291 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 207 207 207 207 Tim Breedon 220 232 220 232 c Mary Francis 29 29 Crawford Gillies 195 178 195 178 d Sir Gerry Grimstone 250 250 Reuben Jeffery III 120 135 120 135 e Wendy Lucas-Bull 64 358 64 358 Dambisa Moyo 135 152 135 152 f Frits van Paasschen 35 88 35 88 Diane fide Saint Victor 118 135 118 135 gh Diane Schueneman 232 74 232 74 h Steve Thieke 221 184 221 184 i Sir Michael Rake 250 250 j Sir John Sunderland 60 60 Total 2,626 2,966 1 17 2,627 2,983 Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons.
The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Notes a John McFarlane joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2015 and as Chairman from 24 April 2015.
The 2015 total includes non-executive Director fees of 78,000 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 24 April 2015. b Sir David Walker retired from the Board with effect from 23 April 2015. c Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016. d Sir Gerry Grimstone joined the Board as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2016 and succeeded Sir Michael Rake as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 January 2016. e Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board with effect from 1 March 2016.
Figures include fees received by Wendy Lucas-Bull for her role as Chairman of Barclays Africa Group Limited.
f Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016. g Diane Schueneman joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 June 2015. h Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke both served in 2016 on the US Governance Review Board, which was an advisory board set up as the forerunner of the board of our US intermediate holding company which was established during 2016.
They each subsequently joined the board of the US intermediate holding company on its formation.
The 2015 figures for Diane Schueneman and Steve Thieke included fees of $37,500 and $75,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board.
The 2016 figures include fees of $138,000 and $150,000 respectively for their roles on the US Governance Review Board and the board of the US intermediate holding company.
In addition, Steve Thieke waived fees of $63,000.
i Sir Michael Rake retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2015. j Sir John Sunderland retired from the Board with effect from 23 April 2015.
Chairman and non-executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 2017 fees, subject to annual review in line with policy, for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are shown below.
1 January 2017 1 January 2016 Percentage 000 000 Increase a Chairman 800 800 0 a Deputy Chairman 250 250 0 Board member 80 80 0 Additional responsibilities Senior Independent Director 30 30 0 Chairman of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 70 70 0 Chairman of Board Risk Committee 70 60 17 Chairman of Board Reputation Committee 50 50 0 Membership of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 30 30 0 Membership of Board Reputation or Board Risk Committee 25 25 0 Membership of Board Nominations Committee 15 15 0 Notes a The Chairman and Deputy Chairman do not receive any other additional responsibility fees in addition to the Chairman and Deputy Chairman fees respectively.
b The basic fee payable to non-executive Directors was last increased in May 2011.
Some revisions have been made to the additional fees payable to Board Committee Chairman to reflect time commitment and responsibilities.
128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Payments to former Directors Former Group Chief Executive: Antony Jenkins Antony Jenkins continued to receive base salary, RBP, benefits and pension allowance until 7 July 2016 the Termination Date.
Full details of his eligibility to variable pay were disclosed in the 2015 Directors Remuneration report page 101 of the 2015 Annual Report.
Former Group Finance Director: Chris Lucas In 2016, Chris Lucas continued to be eligible to receive life assurance cover, private medical cover and payments under the Executive Income Protection Plan EIPP.
Full details of his eligibility under the EIPP were disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration report page 115 of the 2013 Annual Report.
Chris Lucas did not receive any other payment or benefit in 2016.
Directors shareholdings and share interests Executive Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The chart below shows the value of Barclays shares held beneficially by Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria as at 20 February 2017 that count towards the shareholding requirement of, as a minimum, Barclays shares worth four times salary.
The current executive Directors have five years from their respective date of appointment to meet this requirement.
At close of business on 20 February 2017, the market value of Barclays ordinary shares was 2.375.
Jes Staley 000 Requirement 4,800 Actual 10,079 Tushar Morzaria 000 Requirement 3,200 Actual 3,482 Interests in Barclays PLC shares audited The table below shows shares owned beneficially by all the Directors and shares over which executive Directors hold awards which are subject to either deferral terms and or performance measures.
The shares shown below, that are subject to performance measures, are based on the maximum number of shares that may be released.
Unvested Total as at 31 December 2016 or date Subject to Not subject to of retirement Total as at performance performance from the Board, 20 February Owned outright measures measures if earlier 2017 Executive Directors Jes Staley 4,243,848 4,243,848 4,243,848 Tushar Morzaria 1,466,204 3,474,246 578,391 5,518,841 5,518,841 Chairman John McFarlane 46,852 46,852 46,852 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 65,290 65,290 65,290 Tim Breedon 29,755 29,755 29,755 a Mary Francis 7,600 7,600 7,600 Crawford Gillies 70,208 70,208 70,208 Sir Gerry Grimstone 103,288 103,288 103,288 Reuben Jeffery III 200,196 200,196 200,196 b Wendy Lucas-Bull 15,672 15,672 Dambisa Moyo 51,192 51,192 51,192 c Frits van Paasschen 23,681 23,681 Diane fide Saint Victor 36,691 36,691 36,691 Diane Schueneman 16,004 16,004 16,004 Steve Thieke 55,073 55,073 55,073 Notes a Mary Francis joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 October 2016. b Wendy Lucas-Bull retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2016. c Frits van Paasschen retired from the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 28 April 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 129 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Barclays Board Remuneration Committee The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing Barclays remuneration as described in more detail below.
Terms of Reference The role of the Committee is to: set the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group consider and approve the remuneration arrangements of i the Chairman, ii the executive Directors, iii members of the Barclays Group Executive Committee and any other senior executives specified by the Committee from time to time, and iv all other Group employees whose total annual compensation exceeds an amount determined by the Committee from time to time currently 2m exercise oversight for remuneration issues.
The Committee considers all aspects of the design and operation of remuneration policy to ensure a coherent approach is taken in respect of all employees.
In discharging this responsibility the Committee seeks to ensure that the policy assesses, among other things, the impact of pay arrangements on culture and all elements of risk management.
The Committee also approves incentive pools for all major businesses and functions, regularly reviews the design and provision of retirement benefits, and considers and approves measures designed to promote the alignment of the interests of shareholders and employees.
The Committee and its members work as necessary with other Board Committees, and is authorised to select and appoint its own advisers as required.
The Terms of Reference can be found at home.
barclays corporategovernance or from the Company Secretary on request.
Chairman and members The Chairman and members of the Committee are as follows: Crawford Gillies, Committee member since 1 May 2014 and Chairman since 24 April 2015 Tim Breedon, Committee member since 1 December 2012 Mary Francis, Committee member since 1 November 2016 Dambisa Moyo, Committee member since 1 September 2015.
Former member Steve Thieke left the Committee on 1 March 2016 having been a Committee member since 6 February 2014.
All current members are considered independent by the Board.
Remuneration Committee attendance in 2016 Number of meetings Number of eligible to attend meetings attended Crawford Gillies 9 9 Tim Breedon 9 8 Mary Francis 2 2 Dambisa Moyo 9 9 Steve Thieke 3 3 The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review.
The December 2016 review concluded that Board members have full confidence in the effectiveness and thoroughness of the Committee.
Full details of the Board Effectiveness review can be found on page 81.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Until February 2016, the Committee was advised by Willis Towers Watson.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Willis Towers Watson to the Committee was independent and objective.
Willis Towers Watson is a signatory to, and its appointment as adviser to the Committee was conditional on adherence to, the voluntary UK Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consultants.
During the rest of 2016, the Committee decided not to engage an independent adviser but Willis Towers Watson continued to provide the Committee with market data on compensation when considering incentive levels and remuneration packages.
Fees for the Committee work were charged on a time cost basis and Willis Towers Watson was paid a total of 48,000 excluding VAT in fees for its advice to the Committee in 2016 relating to the executive Directors either exclusively or along with other employees within the Committees Terms of Reference.
Willis Towers Watson also provides pensions advice, advice on health and benefits provision, assistance and technology support for employee surveys and performance management, and remuneration data to the Group.
Willis Towers Watson also provides pensions advice and administration services to the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward and Performance Director.
The Group Finance Director and Chief Risk Officer provide regular updates on Group and business financial performance and the Groups risk profile respectively.
No Barclays employee or Director participates in discussions with, or decisions of, the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration.
No other advisers provided significant services to the Committee in the year.
130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration Committee activities in 2016 The following provides a summary of the Committees activities during 2016 and at the January and February 2017 meetings at which 2016 remuneration decisions were finalised.
Meeting Fixed and variable pay issues Governance, risk and other matters January 2016 2015 incentive funding proposals Finance and Risk updates February 2016 Approved executive Directors and senior executives 2016 Approved 2015 Remuneration report Two meetings fixed pay Finance and Risk updates including ex ante Approved 2016 executive Directors annual bonus risk adjustment performance measures Appointment of Committee independent Approved Group fixed pay budgets for 2016 adviser Approved final 2015 incentive funding Updates on headcount and employee attrition Approved proposals for executive Directors and senior executives 2015 bonuses and 2016 LTIP awards for Consideration of the outcomes of the 2015 executive Directors Committee effectiveness review June 2016 Barclays deferral approach Review of Directors remuneration policy Impact of corporate restructuring on executive Director Update on Structural Reform and Group Executive Committee members remuneration July 2016 Review of Barclays broader remuneration philosophy Review of Directors remuneration policy September 2016 Approved Tim Throsbys appointment and remuneration joint meeting with Nominations arrangements Committee October 2016 Review of Directors remuneration policy November 2016 2016 incentive funding projections including risk Annual review of Committee Terms of adjustments Reference 2017 LTIP performance measures Finance and Risk updates Updates on headcount and employee attrition 2016 payround shareholder engagement planning December 2016 Initial considerations on senior executives 2016 bonuses Review of draft Directors remuneration and 2017 fixed pay policy 2017 LTIP performance measures Finance and Risk updates 2016 incentive funding proposals including risk Updates on headcount and employee adjustments attrition January 2017 2016 incentive funding proposals including risk Finance and Risk updates adjustments 2016 bonus proposals for senior executives Barclays deferral approach February 2017 Approved executive Directors and senior executives 2017 Approved 2016 Remuneration report fixed pay Finance and Risk updates Approved 2017 executive Directors annual bonus Updates on headcount and employee performance measures attrition Approved Group fixed pay budgets for 2017 Approved final 2016 incentive funding including risk adjustments Approved proposals for executive Directors and senior executives 2016 bonuses and 2017 LTIP awards for executive Directors Regular items: market and stakeholder updates including PRA FCA, US Federal Reserve and other regulatory matters: updates from Remuneration Review Panel meetings: operation of the Committees Control Framework on hiring, retention and termination: and LTIP performance updates.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 131 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting The table below shows the voting result in respect of our remuneration arrangements at the AGM held on 28 April 2016 and the last policy vote at the AGM held on 24 April 2014: For Against % of % of votes cast votes cast Withheld Number Number Number Advisory vote on the 2015 Remuneration report 93.60% 6.40% 11,351,168,552 776,042,467 83,768,745 Binding vote on the Directors remuneration policy 93.21% 6.79% 9,936,116,114 723,914,712 154,598,278 132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Additional remuneration disclosures This section contains voluntary disclosures about levels of remuneration for our eight most highly paid senior executive officers, levels of remuneration of employees in the Barclays Group and outstanding share plan and LTIP awards for our executive Directors.
2016 total remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executive officers below Board level The table below shows remuneration for the eight highest paid senior executive officers below Board level who were Key Management Personnel in 2016.
Total remuneration comprises salary, RBP, other allowances, bonus and the value at award of LTIP awards.
Of those employees earning above 1m in total remuneration for 2016 in the table above, 63% are based in the US, 32% in the UK, and 5% in the rest of the world.
The number of employees paid above 1m is slightly down year on year on a constant currency basis 364 in 2016 vs. 369 in 2015.
Executive Directors do not pay for any share plan or LTIP awards.
Jes Staley received 19,846 dividend equivalent shares from SVP awards released in 2016 and Tushar Morzaria received 27,503 dividend equivalent shares from SVP awards released in 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 133 Risk review For a more detailed breakdown of our Risk Management The management of risk is a critical approach and our Risk Performance please see pages 163 underpinning to the execution of Barclays to 236.
Barclays risk disclosures are provided in the Annual Report and in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report strategy.
The material risks and uncertainties the Group faces across its business and portfolios are key areas of management focus.
Material existing and emerging risks Annual Report Pillar 3 Report Insight into the level of risk Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting more than one 137 n a Principal Risk across our business and Credit risk 139 n a portfolios, the material existing Market risk 141 n a and emerging risks and Treasury and capital risk 141 n a uncertainties we face and the Operational risk 142 n a key areas of management focus.
Model risk 143 n a Conduct risk 143 n a Reputation risk 144 n a Legal risk 144 n a Risk management Overview of Barclays approach Risk management strategy 146 110 Credit risk management 149 119 to risk management.
A detailed Management of credit risk mitigation techniques and counterparty credit risk 150 135 overview together with more Market risk management 151 138 specific information on policies Management of securitisation exposures n a 146 that the Group determines to Treasury and capital risk management 152 150 be of particular significance in Operational risk management 157 158 the current operating Model risk management 159 162 environment can be found in Conduct risk management 160 164 Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Reputation risk management 161 166 Legal risk management 162 168 Report or at Barclays.
Risk performance Credit risk: Credit risk overview 166 32 Analysis of the balance sheet The risk of suffering financial 166 n a Analysis of maximum exposure and collateral and other credit enhancement held 167 47 loss should the Groups The Groups approach to manage and represent credit quality 169 48, 51 customers, clients or market Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 171 41, 43 counterparties fail to fulfil their Exposure to Eurozone countries 172 n a contractual obligations.
Loans and advances to customers and banks 175 n a Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 176 n a Analysis of problem loans 180 61 Forbearance 182 n a Impairment 186 61 Market risk: Market risk overview and measures in the Group 191 81 Balance sheet view of trading and banking books 192 82 The risk of a reduction to Traded market risk 193 83 earnings or capital due to Business scenario stresses 194 83 volatility of the trading book Review of regulatory measures 194 84 positions or an inability to Capital requirements for market risk n a 85 hedge the banking book Non-traded market risk 195 86 balance sheet.
Economic capital 196 87 Foreign exchange risk 197 88 Pension risk review 198 90 Funding risk Capital: Capital risk overview and regulatory minimum capital and leverage requirements 202 n a Capital resources 203 n a The risk that the Group is unable to Risk weighted assets 205 n a maintain appropriate capital ratios.
Leverage ratio and exposures 206 28 Liquidity risk overview and stress testing 209 152 Funding risk Liquidity: Liquidity pool 211 152 The risk that the firm, although Funding structure and funding relationships 212 n a solvent, either does not have Deposit funding 212 n a sufficient financial resources Wholesale funding Group 213 n a available to enable it to meet Term financing 215 n a its obligations as they fall due, Encumbrance 215 175 or can secure such resources Credit ratings 219 n a only at excessive cost.
Liquidity management at BAGL Group 220 n a Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 220 n a 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk performance continued Annual Report Pillar 3 Report Operational risk: Operational risk overview 226 105 Summary of performance in the period 226 106 The risk of direct or indirect Operation risk profile 226 107 impacts resulting from human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or external events.
Conduct risk: Conduct reputation measure 227 n a Conduct risk overview The risk that detriment is 228 n a Summary of performance 228 n a caused to our customers, clients, counterparties or Barclays and its employees because of inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities.
Supervision and regulation: Supervision of the Group 229 n a Global regulatory developments 230 n a The Groups operations, Regulation in the EU and UK 230 n a including its overseas offices, Regulation in the US 233 n a subsidiaries and associates, are Regulatory developments in the US 235 n a subject to a significant body of Structural reform developments 236 n a rules and regulations that are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial services business.
Pillar 3 Report Contains extensive information High level summary of risk and capital profile n a 3 Notes on basis of preparation n a 5 on risk as well as capital Scope of application of Basel rules n a 6 management.
Group capital resources, requirements and CRD IV comparatives n a 15 Risk and capital position Analysis of credit risk n a 32 review: Analysis of counterparty credit risk n a 67 Provides a detailed breakdown Analysis of credit value adjustment n a 79 of Barclays regulatory capital Analysis of market risk n a 80 adequacy and how this relates Analysis of securitisation exposures n a 92 to Barclays risk management.
Analysis of operational risk n a 105 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 135
