Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy This part of the report sets out Beazleys directors remuneration policy which will be subject to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
Changes to the remuneration policy The key change between this policy and the policy which was approved by shareholders at Beazleys 2014 AGM is that clawback provisions, which were introduced in 2016, will now form part of the policy.
Remuneration policy table The following table sets out descriptions of each component of executive director remuneration packages comprised in the Beazley directors remuneration policy, and, at the bottom of the table, the policy for non-executive directors.
Executive directors Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance conditions Base salary Salaries are set at a Salaries are normally reviewed annually.
level to appropriately salary opportunity.
recognise Salaries for 2017 are: Any salary increases responsibilities and D A Horton: 457,000 will generally reflect to be broadly market M L Bride: 320,000 our standard approach competitive.
A P Cox: 342,500 to all-employee salary N P Maidment: 342,500 increases across the C A Washbourn: 342,500 group.
Higher increases may be made in a range of circumstances where the committee considers that a larger increase is appropriate, including but not limited to : a new appointment: a change in role or adoption of additional responsibilities: development of the individual in the role: and alignment to market levels.
com Governance Financial statements Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance conditions Annual To link reward to Discretionary annual bonus to individuals.
An individual overall cap Solvency II requires that performance bonus short term financial Bonuses are determined by reference of 400% of salary will measures for incentives be based on performance and to both financial and individual apply.
Cash bonuses a combination of group, business unit individual contribution.
will normally be capped and individual performance.
at 250% of salary with Additional alignment Portion generally deferred into shares any amount above this For 2017, an incentive pool will be with shareholders for three years between 0% and 37.5% deferred into shares.
calculated as a percentage of profit and interests through the of bonus dependent on level of bonus.
by reference to group return on equity, operation of bonus subject to a minimum return on equity deferral.
Deferred shares may have dividend and risk adjustment.
Individual payouts to executive In certain circumstances deferred directors are discretionary and share awards may be subject to malus take into account the individuals provisions and annual bonus payments contribution and, where relevant, may be subject to clawback.
the performance of their division.
For heads of divisions, a bonus may be awarded outside the incentive pool in circumstances where the performance of a division in relation to the group is very strong.
While bonus awards are determined by reference to the profit pool, the bonus plan is discretionary and the committee may take into account any other factors it considers appropriate.
The committee may make year-on-year adjustments to the performance framework, in particular to take into account developments in Solvency II requirements.
LTIP To align the senior Awards of shares with performance Awards of up to 200% Vesting of LTIP awards is dependent management teams conditions.
on net asset value per share NAVps interests to the long performance against the risk-free rate term performance of Awards are normally in the form of of return.
the group by setting nil-cost options with a ten-year term, performance targets but may also be in the form of a No more than 25% of the award may over the longer term.
LTIP shares may have dividend A portion of the award is subject to equivalents.
performance over three years and a portion over five years.
Normally LTIP awards are subject to shareholding requirements to be built up over three years.
LTIP awards may be forfeited if shareholding requirements are not met.
In certain circumstances LTIP awards may be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Investment in To align personal Under the plan executive directors and Payments are limited The plan mirrors investment underwriting capital with selected staff may voluntarily defer part to the returns on the in an underwriting syndicate.
underwriting of their bonus into an underwriting investment in the performance.
Capital commitments can be underwriting syndicate.
lost if underwriting performance is poor.
The level of capital commitment is limited by the bonus opportunity.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 95 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance conditions Benefits To provide market Benefits include, but are not limited to, There is no overall None.
a company car or car allowance, season maximum as the cost ticket, private medical insurance, death of insurance benefits in service benefit and income protection will vary depending insurance.
Further benefits may be on the individuals provided, if the committee considers circumstances and the it appropriate.
cost of relocation will vary depending upon Executive directors may participate in the jurisdiction.
Beazleys all-employee share plans on the same basis as other employees.
Tax equalisation policies may apply.
Relocation To support Beazleys Benefits in the event of relocation may benefits growth as an include, but are not limited to, relocation international business.
allowance, housing allowance and school fees.
Pension To provide market Current policy is to contribute to a For defined contribution None.
levels of pension defined contribution pension plan.
An equivalent cash alternative may company contribution be offered.
Legacy defined benefit pension Legacy defined benefit arrangements are in place for certain pension arrangements executives A P Cox, N P Maidment will be honoured.
Further service accruals ceased on 31 March 2006.
Legacy matters Payments can also be made to executive directors under the following legacy remuneration arrangements.
It is not intended that these components of remuneration policy will be used to grant any future awards.
Marine share To align the head of A share award in 2013 for the head of 500,000 shares.
The remaining award is subject to incentive the marine division marine made in two tranches.
The first pre-tax divisional return on equity plan MSIP with the sustained tranche has now vested.
The second ROE performance and continued outstanding tranche of 500,000 shares vests after employment, measured over five years: performance of the five years.
20% vesting for 15% divisional ROE marine division.
performance, 100% vesting for 25% Shares under award may have dividend divisional ROE performance, with equivalents.
straight line vesting between points.
Awards are subject to a malus provision in certain circumstances.
com Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors Non-executive directors fees comprise payment of an annual basic fee and additional fees to reflect specific responsibilities, where applicable.
No non-executive director participates in the groups incentive arrangements or pension plan.
Basic fee Payment of a basic annual fee Additional Additional fees are paid to reflect additional responsibilities of certain non-executive directors, as follows: fees senior independent director audit and risk committee chairman remuneration committee chairman subsidiary board membership and chairmanship fees.
Non-executive directors may receive additional fees in the future if in the view of the board this was considered appropriate, including in circumstances of additional committees, other non-executive director positions, or to reflect additional time commitments in certain circumstances.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the company, including any tax due on the expenses.
Non-executive directors do not normally receive any benefits however these may be provided in the future if in the view of the board this was considered appropriate.
Total fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in the Articles of Association.
Notes to the remuneration policy table Recovery provisions clawback and malus may apply where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery provisions.
Clawback provisions apply only for incentives made in respect of 2015 and thereafter.
Further detail on the recovery provisions, including the circumstances and timeframe for which they can be applied are set out in the annual remuneration report.
The committee may increase the proportion of bonus deferred into shares at any time.
For future incentive awards the committee may adjust the performance measures to take into account developments in Solvency II remuneration requirements, or, in the event of a significant event or changing business circumstance.
Major shareholders would be consulted prior to any significant changes.
LTIP, MSIP and deferred share awards will be operated in accordance with the rules of the plan.
In accordance with those rules the committee has discretion in the following areas: in the event of a variation of Beazleys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other similar event, which may, in the committees opinion, affect the current or future value of shares, the number of shares subject to an award and or any performance condition attached to awards, may be adjusted.
Awards under Beazleys other share plans have similar adjustment provisions: the committee may determine that awards may be settled in cash: the committee may substitute or amend a performance condition if one or more events occur which cause the committee to consider that a substituted or amended condition would be more appropriate and would not be materially more or less difficult to satisfy: the committee may determine the treatment of awards on a winding up, a change of control or similar event in accordance with the rules of the plan: and the committee may determine the basis on which dividends will be calculated which may include notional reinvestment.
Legacy commitments The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 26 March 2014 AGM the date Beazleys first shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out in this report comes into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of Beazley and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of Beazley.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 97 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Performance measures and targets The following table provides further detail on why performance measures are chosen and how targets are set.
Incentive plan Performance measures Why performances measures were chosen and target is set Annual bonus plan Profit and ROE, risk adjustment, The committee believes the approach to the determination individual performance.
of bonuses creates alignment to shareholders interests and ensures that bonuses are affordable, while the ROE targets increase the performance gearing and the risk adjustment is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
The committee reviews the bonus pool framework each year to ensure that it remains appropriate and targets are set taking into account the prevailing environment, interest rates and expected investment returns, headcount and any other relevant factors.
A key principle of the process is that the committee exercises its judgement in determining individual awards taking into account the individuals contribution and performance.
Long term incentive plan Growth in net asset value per share Creates alignment to one of Beazleys key performance indicators.
NAVps over three years and five The committee reviews the NAVps targets periodically to ensure years.
they remain appropriate with reference to the internal business plan, the external environment and market practice.
In the event that NAVps were to become unsuitable as a performance measure in the opinion of the committee for example due to a change in accounting standards the committee would substitute a measure which followed broadly similar principles.
Investment in underwriting The plan mirrors investment in an The Beazley staff underwriting plan provides for participants underwriting syndicate.
to contribute personal capital to Beazley syndicates.
Selected staff are invited to participate through bonus deferral with an element of cash incentives at risk as capital commitments.
Differences in policy from broader employee population The policy for executive directors follows the same broad principles in place for all employees in Beazley.
Differences in policy for executive directors and senior management as compared to the broader employee population reflect different market levels for seniority, as well as their group responsibilities.
For example, incentive performance conditions for executive directors and senior management are more closely aligned to group performance, whereas underwriters participate in incentive plans linked to the performance of their business area.
All employees in the group may participate in a defined contribution pension plan, and are offered benefits such as private medical insurance and permanent health insurance.
Beazley also operates all-employee share plans to create staff alignment and promote a sense of ownership.
com Governance Financial statements Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The charts below set out an illustration of the operation of the remuneration policy for 2017 and include base salary, pension, benefits and incentives.
Note that, as prescribed by the legislation, the illustrations are based on initial award value and therefore do not reflect potential share price growth or any dividends received over deferral periods, which may impact the overall value of deferred annual and long term remuneration delivered.
Chief executive officer 000 Head of marine 000 16% 56% 28% 3,285 18% 60% 22% 2,292 Maximum Maximum 37% 47% 16% 1,457 39% 49% 12% 1,051 On-plan On-plan 100% 408 100% 543 Minimum Minimum 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Minimum remuneration Long term remuneration Minimum remuneration Long term remuneration Ch Ain en fua und l vae rir aw ble ri r ti en m g u o ne fr fa ic tio en r 000 He Aa nd nua of l va sp rie able cia rle ty m l uin ne e rs at io n000 18% 60% 22% 2,294 17% 58% 25% 2,376 Maximum Maximum 39% 49% 12% 1,053 38% 48% 14% 1,070 On-plan On-plan 100% 410 100% 406 Minimum Minimum 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Minimum remuneration Long term remuneration Minimum remuneration Long term remuneration Group finance director 000 Annual variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration 18% 60% 22% 2,140 Maximum 39% 49% 12% 980 On-plan 100% 380 Minimum 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Minimum remuneration Long term remuneration Annual variable remuneration Element Minimum On-plan Maximum Base salary Annual base salary Fixed remuneration Pension 15% of base salary Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided in 2016 Annual variable remuneration 0% of salary 150% of salary 400% of salary cash and deferred shares Long term remuneration LTIP 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting Approach to recruitment remuneration The committee would have regard to the following principles when agreeing the components of a remuneration package upon the recruitment of a new director: in order to facilitate the future success of the company it is important that we are able to recruit directors of the calibre required to deliver our strategic priorities.
Although the company operates in a highly competitive market for executive talent, the committee remains conscious of the need to avoid paying more than is necessary on recruitment: t he committee will, so far as practical, seek to align the remuneration package for any incoming executive with the remuneration policy table set out above: on recruitment salaries will be set to take into account role and responsibilities.
For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than salary for example a non-executive director taking on an executive function on a short term basis : the committee may, on appointing an executive director, need to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on joining the company: a ny buyout would take into account the terms of the arrangements e. g. form of award, performance conditions, timeframe being forfeited in the previous package.
The form of any award would be determined at the time and the committee could if necessary make use of LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for the purpose of buyout awards only.
The committee would seek to structure buyout awards to be in line with Beazleys remuneration framework so far as practical.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buyout awards would be of comparable commercial value to the awards which had been forfeited: www.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 99 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued all buyout awards would normally be liable to forfeiture or clawback on early departure.
For executive directors early departure is defined as being within the first two years of employment: the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted in the first year excluding buyouts is in line with the aggregate maximums set out in the policy table.
The committee retains the flexibility to determine that for the first year of appointment any annual bonus award will be subject to such conditions as it may determine: and where an executive is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is appointed following Beazleys acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Service contracts and loss of office payment policy It is company policy that service contracts with executive directors contain notice periods, from the company or employee, of not more than 12 months.
The company may at its absolute discretion elect to terminate an executive directors employment by making a payment in lieu of notice of the individuals salary for that period.
Subject to notice requirements, there is no provision in the service agreements for compensation to be payable on early termination of the contract.
The committee has discretion to structure any compensation payments in such a way as it deems appropriate taking into account the circumstances of departure.
Any payments of compensation will be subject to negotiation, and the group policy is to consider whether mitigation and phasing of payments is appropriate.
The committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include amounts in respect of accrued leave, paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the directors legal or professional advice fees in connection with his or her cessation of office or employment.
In the event of a directors departure any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The following principles apply for the treatment of remuneration elements following loss of office for a director: Remuneration element Treatment upon loss of office Bonus There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
Taking into account the circumstances of leaving, the committee retains the discretion to award a bonus in respect of performance in the financial year with appropriate consideration of time pro-rating.
Deferred shares If a director ceases office or employment with the group any unvested awards will lapse unless the individual is a good leaver.
Good leaver circumstances are cessation by reason of injury, ill-health, permanent disability or retirement with the agreement of the employing company and, if the committee so determines, redundancy, the sale of the individuals employing company or business out of the group, or such other circumstances as the committee may determine.
In these good leaver circumstances awards may vest in full or be time pro-rated, and be delivered on cessation or at the normal time.
If a director dies his or her awards will vest in full.
Staff underwriting For leavers, profit results are payable in respect of years of account commencing before cessation.
participation plan A participant receives repayment of notional capital invested reduced by any loss result for the relevant year of account.
2012 LTIP and MSIP If a director ceases office or employment with the group any unvested awards will lapse unless the individual is a good leaver.
An individual is a good leaver if employment ceases because of death, ill-health, injury, disability, the sale of the individuals employing company or business out of the group or for any other reason at the committees discretion except where a participant is dismissed lawfully without notice.
Awards will vest on the normal vesting date, unless the committee determines that awards should vest at the time the individual ceases employment.
If the participant dies awards will vest as soon as practicable after the date of death.
Awards will vest taking into account the satisfaction of any performance condition and, unless the committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since the award was granted until the date of cessation of employment.
com Governance Financial statements Remuneration element Treatment upon loss of office Pension The director will be eligible to receive the standard 15% of salary contribution to the defined contribution pension plan during the notice period, or cash equivalent.
Under the Beazley Furlonge Limited Final Salary Pension Scheme, on early retirement the director receives a pension which is reduced to reflect early payment in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
HMRC approved Leavers will be treated in accordance with the approved plan rules.
all-employee plans or equivalent overseas plans Recruitment awards Were a buyout award to be made under LR 9.4.
2 or in other circumstances outside of the existing share plan rules then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award.
In the event of a change of control or winding up of the company, treatment of share awards will be in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
In these circumstances LTIP awards, MSIP awards and deferred shares may vest early.
The extent to which LTIP and MSIP awards vest would be determined by the committee taking into account the satisfaction of any performance conditions, the period of time that has elapsed since the award was granted until the date of the event and any other factors the committee considers relevant.
Deferred shares will vest to the extent determined by the committee taking into account any factors it considers relevant.
Alternatively, the committee may determine that LTIP awards, MSIP awards or deferred shares may be exchanged for equivalent awards on such terms as agreed with the acquiring company.
If there is a demerger, delisting or other event which may materially affect the companys share price, LTIP awards and MSIP awards may vest on the same basis as for a takeover.
Non-executive directors fee policy and service contracts With effect from 2012 the standard approach for non-executive director appointment is that the appointment expires at the AGM following the end of the three year term, notwithstanding the fact that each director is subject to annual re-election at each AGM.
Although there is currently no intention to do so, the board reserves the right to introduce notice periods for non-executive directors in the future.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the company As part of the regular cycle, the committee is informed of pay and employment conditions of wider employees in the group and takes these into account when determining the remuneration for executive directors.
While the review includes various statistics on the outcome of the wider employee pay review, the review does not currently include any direct comparison measures between executive directors and wider employee pay.
The company does not consult with employees on executive director remuneration.
Consideration of shareholders views The remuneration committee also regularly reviews guidance from shareholder advisory bodies such as the Investment Association, PLSA and ISS, as well as the specific policies of our shareholders.
Changes to our policy such as the introduction of a bonus cap have been incorporated into Beazleys policies as a result of these reviews.
The committee periodically undertakes gap analyses of Beazley policy against the guidance from shareholder bodies and wider shareholder views.
The committee has consulted with shareholders regarding remuneration policy and shareholder views were taken into account during the formulation of the policy.
Minor changes The committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
