GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration The Committee considers that the three main components of the remuneration paidto the executive directors fairly reflects both Group and individual performance during the 12-month and three-year period to 31July 2016.
Mike Toms Chairman of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration NHBC health and safety incident rate How we will implement the remuneration Annual Statement improved from 0.936 to 0.766. policy in 2016 17 I am pleased to present the Report of the Board From 1 August 2016 the directors have been on Directors Remuneration for the 2015 16 Customer care score improved from 83.8% awarded salary increases which are consistent financial year.
This has been a year in which the to 85.7%.
with the average general workforce increase Group has made significant progress which is These results reflect performance over a of around 3%.
broader range of performance indicators that The bonus structure and opportunity The Board Committee on Executive Directors demonstrate the managements success in remains as before the maximum annual Remuneration the Committee considers that delivering the strategy.
As a result the directors bonus potential is 120% of salary, with 90% of the use of targets based on annual profitability earned a total bonus of 115% out of a maximum salary based on operating profit and 30% of and non-financial metrics provide a rounded of 120% of salary, which the Committee believes salary based on non-financial performance assessment of performance, and that a focus on has been fully justified by the progress made by measures.
Long-term incentive award levels total shareholder return provides an appropriate the Group.
It will be payable in November 2016. are set at 130% of basic salary and executive link with our aim of generating long-term returns Looking forward, we have a strong order book directors are required to retain shares which for our shareholders.
The remuneration policy and are prudently financed to withstand any vest net of any shares required to be sold to is structured so that a significant proportion turbulence in the market.
settle the relevant taxes, for a period of at least of the executive directors total remuneration two years from vesting and in any event, to a comprises performance-linked bonuses and Long-term incentive awards made in 2013 to level of at least one years basic salary.
The Committee also Ted Ayres and Keith Adey were subject to considers that the current policy, which has three-year performance conditions based Shortly after the year-end we received the been approved by shareholders, continues to on relative total shareholder return TSR, GC100 and Investor Group Directors Reporting reward appropriately the directors for delivering which were tested at the end of 2015 16.
The Committee the strategy of building shareholder value 50% of these awards, the Companys TSR was believes that its policies, practices and through disciplined volume growth.
As we enter compared to the companies within the FTSE procedures reflect best practice but it will take the third and final year of our current policy, the 250 excluding financial services companies into account this guidance in its deliberations Committee will review it during this year and a and investment trusts.
Bellways TSR of in future.
new policy will be put forward for shareholder 90.6% ranked it within the upper quartile and approval at the 2017AGM.
At the last AGM over 99% of our shareholders therefore this part of the award vested in full.
who cast their votes, voted in favour of The TSR condition relating to the other 50% How the remuneration policy was applied the Report of the Board on Directors was measured against a group of other listed in 2015 16 Remuneration which consists of this Annual housebuilders and Bellways TSR outperformed Statement and the Annual Report on the median by more than 7.5% p. a. and this part The basic salaries of the executive directors Remuneration.
Shareholders will be asked to were increased by 3% in line with the of the award also vested in full.
give their support again by voting in favour average increases awarded to the rest of the The three-year TSR performance reflects a of the Report of the Board on Directors workforcegenerally.
period in which we have consistently and Remuneration at this years AGM.
Further The annual bonus payments are linked to KPIs significantly improved our performance information on this resolution is set out in the which require the directors to deliver improved compared with other companies.
Since Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on operating profit as well as meeting non- 2013, completions have increased by 54.3%, Tuesday 13 December 2016. financial targets all of which the Committee operating margin has increased from 13.6% to considers aligns the directors interests with 22.0% and operating profit has increased by those of shareholders, by building shareholder 340.9 million.
This growth has been achieved value.
Progress made during the year on those while maintaining robust finances.
In addition, targets is set out briefly below and in more during the year ROCE has risen by 430bps to Mike Toms detail on pages 62 to 63.
28.2% 2015 23.9% and the NAV has increased Chairman of the Board Committee on by 18.4% to 1,522p 2015 1,286p.
Executive Directors Remuneration Pre-exceptional operating profit increased by 36.5% from 360.4 million to 492.0 million.
The Committee considers that the three main 17 October 2016 components of the remuneration paid to Short-term land bank of plots available for the executive directors fairly reflects both the construction with planning permission Group and individual performance during the increased by 8.4%.
12-month and three-year period to 31 July 2016.
54 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE This part of the remuneration report, the Consideration of employment conditions Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy, was approved elsewhere in the Group The remuneration policy has been developed by shareholders at the AGM on 12 December Whilst we do not consult directly with taking into account the principles of the UK 2014.
Although not required by the regulations, employees when drawing up the executive Corporate Governance Code published the substantive terms of the policy are remuneration policy, in determining in 2014, the views of the Companys major reproduced here for ease of reference.
Any the elements of remuneration for the shareholders and the Investment Association details, however, that were specific to 2015 16 executive directors the Committee takes IA and Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. for example, the application of remuneration into consideration the pay and conditions ISS guidelines on remuneration.
policy chart have been updated, where of employees throughout the Group as a applicable, to reflect the current position.
As no whole, paying particular attention to the Objectives of remuneration policy changes are being made to the policy, there levels of basic pay increase awarded to the will be no vote on the remuneration policy The aim of the Committee is to ensure that workforce generally.
Normally, the salaries at the 2016 AGM.
The policy will be reviewed the Company has competitive remuneration of the directors are increased in accordance during the coming year, including consultation packages in place in order to recruit, retain with the general pay increase awarded to with stakeholders in advance of a shareholder and motivate executive directors in the the workforce and it is the intention of the vote at the 2017 AGM.
overall interests of shareholders, the Group, its Committee to revert to this practice now that employees and its customers.
the executive directors salaries have reached 1 mid-market levels.
All employees, including The Committee has a policy of paying a level of the executive directors, can join the Groups remuneration at around the mid-market level savings related share option arrangements, of a peer group of similar UK housebuilding have life assurance benefits and have access to businesses, subject to experience and pension arrangements.
The Committee uses this of employees benefit from health insurance, a comparative approach to benchmarking with company car or car allowance and are eligible caution, recognising the relatively low number to participate in a discretionary bonus scheme.
of direct housebuilding comparators, their The Committee is apprised regularly of any differing size and the risk of an upward ratchet significant policy changes for the workforce effect with any peer-based analysis.
The generally and management below Board level structure of the package has been designed to in particular.
ensure that the performance-related elements of remuneration annual bonus and long-term Consideration of shareholder views incentives constitute a significant proportion of an executives potential total remuneration The Committee takes into account the views package, but are only receivable if stretching of shareholders.
When any significant changes performance targets are achieved.
are proposed to the remuneration policy, the Chairman of the Committee will consult with The structure of the performance conditions major shareholders and representative bodies for annual bonus and long-term incentives in advance.
In setting the policy, the Committee has been designed to provide a strong link consulted with major shareholders, the IA and to the Groups performance, namely a focus ISS in 2013 14 on the proposed salary increases on maximising profit in a sustainable fashion for the executive directors to bring them in and producing superior shareholder returns, line with their peers, the proposed changes to thereby generating a strong alignment of the non-financial annual bonus performance interest between senior executives and measures and long-term incentive provision shareholders.
Since 2015, salary increases have been in accordance with the general pay increase awarded to the workforce.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 55 GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Policy table This section of the report describes the key components of the remuneration arrangements for each element of remuneration for executive and non-executive directors which, having been approved by shareholders, has been in operation since the 2014 AGM: Component and link Operation Maximum opportunity Framework to assess performance to strategy SALARY To be market competitive Salaries are normally reviewed in July each year No prescribed maximum.
In addition to the reviews by the Chairman, as part and therefore assist in and changes normally take effect from 1 August.
Increases normally in of the annual Board evaluation, the performance recruiting, retaining and They are determined by reference to market line with the average for of the executives and the Company is kept under motivating high quality levels of a peer group of similar UK housebuilding the workforce generally.
continuous review by the Board.
Reflects businesses, taking account of salaries at other Increases may be below individual role and companies of a similar size and by taking account or above this e. g. due to experience.
of individual performance and experience.
promotion or role change or a significant change Where salaries of new executive directors are in the size and scope of positioned below market levels, the Committees theCompany.
policy is to progress these over time as experience is gained, subject to performance.
Salaries for 2016 17 are set out in the Annual Report onRemuneration.
ANNUAL BONUS To reward achievement Annual bonuses are normally payable in 120% of basic The bonus is based on a combination of financial with a combination November following the year end on 31 July, salarymaximum.
and non-financial objectives, with financial of financial and nonsubject to the achievement of performance targets performance accounting for a majority of the financial operational that were set at the start of the year on 1 August.
based performance The Company operates a clawback mechanism The Committee determines the choice of targets in accordance with which allows the Company, in exceptional measure s and their weighting for each year to GroupKPIs.
circumstances, to clawback some or all of the ensure alignment with the Boards priorities over payments made under the variable components of the short to medium term.
Details of the performance targets for the forthcoming year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP The Company operates a PSP as its primary long- 150% of basic salary.
PSP awards are subject to stretching three-year To encourage longterm value creation, aid term incentive.
The current awards are subject to relative TSR conditions against relevant comparator retention, encourage Annual awards of nil cost options or conditional 1 shareholding and promote companies.
For future awards the Committee may awards may be made under the PSP to the alignment of interests with choose a financial measure such as EPS, ROCE or executive directors, at the discretion of the shareholders.
NAV in conjunction with or as an alternative to TSR Committee.
Awards normally vest three years after depending on the mediumto long-term priorities grant, subject to the achievement of stretching of the Group at the time ofgrant.
If the Committee decides to introduce a financial Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may measure, it will carry out prior consultation with bepayable.
The Company operates a clawback mechanism Further details of the performance metrics applying which allows the Company, in exceptional to the awards for 2016 17 are set out in the Annual circumstances, to clawback some or all of the Report on Remuneration.
A post-vesting minimum holding period of two years applies to awards granted from 2014onwards.
PENSION To provide a structure Pension contributions into the Companys Group 20% of salary.
and value that is market Self Invested Personal Pension Plan and or a salary competitive.
supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
BENEFITS To provide a range and Comprises car or car allowance, life assurance and Not applicable.
value that is market health insurance.
Other benefits may be provided competitive.
Any expenses incurred in carrying out duties will be fully reimbursed by the Company including any personal taxation associated with such expenses.
56 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Component and link Operation Maximum opportunity Framework to assess performance to strategy CHAIRMAN AND NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS To set appropriate The Chairmans fee is determined by the Board Not applicable.
The performance of the non-executive directors fees in light of the Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
is assessed by the Chairman.
The senior time commitment, independent non-executive director reviews the The remuneration of the non-executive directors responsibilities, wider performance of the Chairman in conjunction with is determined by the Board committee on market and best practice.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration, which comprises the executive directors.
Fee levels are normally reviewed annually, taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles including membership or chairmanship of Board committees and the level of fees for similar positions in comparablecompanies.
Non-executive directors are not normally entitled to any benefits with the exception of the Chairman who receives health and life assurance benefits or pension.
They do not participate in any bonus or long-term incentive plans with the exception of the Chairmans outstanding PSP awards which he 2 retained when he left his role as Chief Executive and they are not entitled to compensation on termination of their arrangements, other than normal notice provisions of three months given by either party.
Travel, accommodation and other related expenses incurred in carrying out the role will be paid by the Company including any personal taxation associated with such expenses.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS To align executive Executive directors are required to accumulate Not applicable.
directors interests with a minimum shareholding equivalent to 100% of those of shareholders.
Within a period of three months of appointment an executive director must acquire a minimum of 1,000 ordinary shares in the Company and must retain at least 50% of any shares awarded under the PSP or SMP in respect of awards granted in 2014 or before, after allowance for paying tax, until the requisite number of shares has been accumulated.
If personal circumstances make this difficult, the Committee would exercise discretion.
The Committee believes that relative TSR is an appropriate long-term performance metric as it generates an alignment of interest between executives and institutional shareholders by providing a reward mechanism for delivering superior stock market performance.
The TSR performance is independently calculated for the Committee by the Companys brokers.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority has been given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as in connection with the unvested SMP awards and the final SMP award which was granted in 2014, notwithstanding that the SMP will not form part of the Companys policy going forward.
Details of any payments made to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
The Chairmans PSP awards which were outstanding when he left his role as Chief Executive have now all been exercised and details were provided in the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial years in which the exercises took place.
The executive directors may also participate in any all-employee plan operated by the Company up to prevailing HMRC limits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 57 GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Approach to recruitment remuneration In arriving at a total package and in considering the quantum for each element of the package, the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the candidate and the market rate for a candidate of that experience as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
Element General policy Detail Salary At a level required to attract the most appropriate candidate.
Discretion to pay lower basic salary with incremental increases as new appointee becomes established in the role.
Pension and benefits In accordance with Company policies.
Additional benefits in relation to recruitment may be provided where considered appropriate.
For example, relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and other recruitment-related costs may be payable.
Bonus In accordance with existing schemes.
Specific targets could be introduced for an individual within the maximum individual limits of the annual bonus plan applicable at the time.
Pro-rating would be applied as appropriate for intra-year joiners.
Long-term incentives In accordance with Company policies and maximum limits in An award may be made in the year of joining or, alternatively, the award PSP the PSP rules.
can be delayed until the following year.
Targets would normally be the same as for other directors and grant levels consistent within the permitted individual maximum under the rules of the plan.
Other share awards The Committee may make an incentive award to replace Awards would, where possible, be consistent with the awards deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance previous employer and, if required, by relying on the flexibility conditions.
provided in the Listing Rules to grant such replacement awards.
58 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Service contracts and loss of office payment policy The executive directors have service contracts with a 12-month notice period from the Company and a 6-month notice period from the executive.
The overriding principle for payments on loss of office will be to honour contractual remuneration entitlements.
The Committee would determine, on an equitable basis, the appropriate treatment of performance-linked elements of the package, taking account of the circumstances, in accordance with the rules of each respective plan.
Failure will not be rewarded.
1 2 3 Element Leaver Departure on agreedterms Good leaver Salary, pension and Nil.
Up to 12 months basic salary, benefits and pension.
Apart from death, up to 12 months basic benefits after cessation salary, benefits and pension, less any period of Payments may be phased and subject to offset ofemployment noticeworked.
against alternative income from elsewhere during the noticeperiod.
Payments may be phased and subject to offset against alternative income from elsewhere during The Company may pay in lieu of notice an amount the notice period.
equivalent to 12 months salary, pension and benefits.
The Company may pay in lieu of notice an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, pension andbenefits.
Annual bonus No bonus payable.
For the proportion of the financial year worked, For the proportion of the financial year worked, bonus may be payable pro-rata at the discretion of bonus may be payable pro-rata at the discretion of the Committee.
There will be no bonus payment in the Committee.
respect of any period of notice notworked.
PSP and SMP awards All awards, including Awards will lapse upon cessation of employment, Awards may be exercised within 12 months of the granted to the current those which have vested unless the Committee decides otherwise, in which vesting date.
executive directors in 2014 but are unexercised case awards may vest.
Where employment ends before the vesting date, or before will lapse immediately Where employment ends before the vesting date, awards may be exercised at the normal vesting upon cessation of awards may vest at the normal time other than time other than by exception and only to the employment.
by exception to the extent that the performance extent that the performance conditions have been conditions have been satisfied.
The level of vested award will be reduced, pro-rata, The level of vested award will be reduced, prorata, based upon the period of time after the based upon the period of time after the grant date and ending on the date of cessation of employment, grant date and ending on the date of cessation of employment, relative to the three-year relative to the three-year performance period unless the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, decides performance period unless the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, decides that such a scaling that such a scaling back is inappropriate in any particular case.
back is inappropriate in any particular case.
Depending upon circumstances, the Committee may The Company may pay for outplacement support consider payments in respect of an unfair dismissal and assistance with legal fees.
award, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees.
For example, normal resignation from the Company or termination for cause e. g. disciplinary issues.
This may cover a range of circumstances such as business reorganisation, changes in reporting structure, change in requirement for the role, termination as a result of a failure to be re-elected at an AGM, etc.
Leaver for compassionate reasons such as death, injury, disability or retirement, with the agreement of the employer.
The details of the executive directors service contracts are as follows: Executive director First appointed as Current contract adirector commencement date Ted Ayres 1 August 2011 1 August 2011 Keith Adey 1 February 2012 1 February 2012 The executive directors may accept external appointments provided that such appointments do not, in any way, prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
The extent to which any executive director is allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
None of the executive directors currently hold any outside appointments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 59 GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with the Company of no more than three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the AGM, with a three-month notice period by either side.
The appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive directors provide that no compensation is payable on termination, other than fees accrued and expenses.
Non-executive director First appointed as Current letter of Current letter of a director appointment appointment expiry date commencement date John Watson 1 August 1995 1 February 2016 31 January 2019 Mike Toms 1 February 2009 1 February 2015 31 January 2018 John Cuthbert 1 November 2009 1 November 2015 31 October 2018 Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 1 August 2016 31 July 2019 Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 1 August 2016 31 July 2019 Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The remuneration policy results in a significant portion of remuneration received by executive directors being dependent on the Groups performance.
The chart below illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under three performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum.
The chart, which has been based on the simplified long-term incentive policy applying from 2015 onwards i. e. PSP awards at 130% of salary with the SMP no longer operated, is indicative, as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Chart labels show proportion of total package comprised of each element.
Assumptions Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension pay in lieu of pension, salary is actual for 2016 17, benefits are based on the value of actual benefits received in 2015 16 and pension pay in lieu of pension is based on policy of 20% of salary applied to the 2016 17 salary.
Target fixed pay plus 50% of maximum bonus payout plus PSP award of 130% of salary with 50% of the award vesting.
Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of maximum bonus payout plus PSP award of 130% of salary with 100% of the award vesting.
60 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 000 GOVERNANCE Annual Report on Remuneration The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee comprises Mike Toms Chairman, John Cuthbert, Paul Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger, who were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Director Date appointed to the Committee Mike Toms Chairman 1 February 2009 and appointed as Committee Chairman 1 February 2014 John Cuthbert 1 November 2009 Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2014 Denise Jagger 1 August 2014 None of the Committee members have a personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
There are no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and operates under its own terms of reference which have been agreed by the Board.
These are available at www.
Activities during 2015 16 The Committee met six times during the year to conduct the following: To approve the bonus payments and long-term incentive awards vesting levels for the 2014 15 year.
To approve the 2014 15 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
To set the bonus targets for the 2016 17 year.
To make awards under the long-term incentive scheme.
To amend its terms of reference to include the remuneration of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and to agree his remuneration on appointment on 1 February 2016.
To review and determine the remuneration packages for the executive directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
To review and determine the fee payable to the Chairman.
To review current market practice and future trends in executive remuneration.
To review remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
The Committee receives independent external advice from New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by the Committee and does not provide any other services to the Company other than to the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration.
NBS is also a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by its Code of Conduct.
The Committee is satisfied that NBS is independent.
The total fee paid to NBS for advice to the Committees during the year was 57,245.
The Committee also benefited from advice received from the former Group Company Secretary until his retirement on 31 January 2016 and from 1 February 2016 onwards from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary on issues other than those relating to their own remuneration.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors apart from the Chairman is determined by the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration, which comprises the executive directors.
It also receives advice from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and NBS.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 61 GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 16 The auditor is required to report on the information contained in the following part of this report.
Keith Adeys basic salary for 2015 16 was 361,000 and where reference is made in this report to his basic salary for 2015 16 this is the amount to which reference is being made.
The figure shown in the table above is the actual amount paid during the financial year, reflecting a reduction in his take-home pay during a period of paternity leave.
Taxable benefits include car or car allowance and health insurance.
Pension includes both payments in lieu of pension of 145,890 and contributions to a defined contribution scheme of 49,910.
None of the directors are members of the Groups defined benefit scheme and both of the executive directors are members of a defined contribution scheme.
The value of long-term incentives in 2016 reflects the vesting of the 2013 PSP awards, which will be exercisable from 18 December 2016 and the vesting of the 2013 SMP awards which will be exercisable from 28 November 2016, including additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of the 2013 SMP award to vesting.
The value shown is based on a share price of 23.33, being the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i. e. 1 May 31 July 2016 as a proxy for the share price at vesting.
The 2015 figures have been restated to reflect the actual share prices at the dates of vesting of the partially vested 2012 PSP and SMP awards, which took place after the publication of last years report.
Other items refer to the discount on the awards, during the year, under the Groups savings related share option scheme.
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 July 2016 The annual bonus is payable in November 2016 for performance during the year ended 31 July 2016.
The performance targets for the 2015 16 bonus comprised operating profit and three non-financial measures.
The actual bonus payment against operating profit was determined on the following basis: Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Actual Payment Payment % of salary value % of % of salary maximum Operating profit pre-exceptional 90% 415.0 437.0 445.0 492.0 100% 90% million million million million The actual operating profit exceeded the maximum value forecast by the directors, shareholders and analysts at the start of the year.
This was the result of the success of management in acquiring land and constructing and selling more homes at higher prices, in a very favourable business environment, whilst at the same time controlling construction costs and maintaining a high level of financial prudence.
Since 2014 15 the payment of any bonus for non-financial performance has been based on a sliding scale of targets.
For land bank, a 10% payment would be triggered for a predetermined percentage increase in plots with detailed planning permission DPP, with an additional 1% payment for further improved performance, up to a maximum of 15% of salary.
Similarly, for health and safety and customer care there is a minimum payment of 4.5% for no deterioration in scores, with additional 1% increments payable up to a maximum of 7.5% for improved performance.
62 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The basis for payment of the actual bonus against the three non-financial metrics that applied are set out in the table below: Non-financial measure Objectives Score Land bank Increase in the land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the following financial year Maximum 15% in the year to 31 July 2016 to ensure our growth aspirations are not frustrated by land shortages in of salary future years.
The land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the following financial year grew by Partially achieved 10% 8.4% during the year which exceeded the threshold required for a partial payment but did not of salary awarded reach the target for a maximum payment.
Health and safety No deterioration of the NHBC health and safety incident rate from the baseline as a minimum Maximum 7.5% and additional payments made for improvements in health and safety performance by reference of salary to the NHBC health and safety incident rate.
Improvements in health and safety performance are indicated by a lower NHBC health and safety incident rate.
Achieved 7.5% Our baseline NHBC health and safety incident rate was 0.986, which represents a level of safety very significantly better than other housebuilders.
The target for a maximum payment in 2016 was of salary awarded 0.986.
The actual rate was 0.766, which exceeded the target for a maximum payment.
Customer care No deterioration of previous years net assessment of customer satisfaction score as a minimum, Maximum 7.5% with additional bonus opportunity for improvement in the Groups customer satisfaction score.
of salary The Group's customer care score in 2016 was 85.7% compared with 83.8% in 2015.
Achieved 7.5% of salary awarded Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the resulting bonus payment of 115% of salary out of 120% is reflective of the Companys record performance during the year.
Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 July 2016 The SMP and PSP awards granted in 2013 which will vest in November and December 2016 respectively, were based on a three-year TSR performance for the period to 31 July 2016.
The applicable vesting percentages will be as follows: Metric Performance condition Threshold Stretch Actual % Vesting target target 29.5% 30.2% 50% 50% of awards Relative TSR against an index of peer housebuilders comprising Barratt 22.0% Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, TSR TSR Bellway Index Index TSR Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc: 25% of this part of an award vests at the Index, increasing, 7.5% p. a. pro-rata, to full vesting at Index 7.5% p. a.
50% of awards Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies 83 41.5 22 50% and investment trusts : 25% of this part of an award vests at median, rank rank Bellway increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at the upper quartile.
median upper rank quartile Total 100% An underpin also applied to the 2013 PSP and SMP awards.
Regardless of TSR performance, no part of an award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period, taking into account, inter alia, operating profit, operating margin, ROCE and NAV.
The Committee agreed that this underpin had been met and the following SMP and PSP awards are expected to be exercisable on 28 November and 18 December 2016 respectively.
Based on a share price of 23.33, being the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i. e. 1 May 31 July 2016 as a proxy for the share price at vesting.
Additional shares not included above will be awarded in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of the 2013 SMP award to vesting in respect of each director as follows: Ted Ayres 1,342 shares and Keith Adey 862 shares.
The performance period was 1 August 2012 31 July 2015.
The TSR performance condition was in two parts.
Half was measured by reference to an index of UK housebuilders comprising Barratt Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc.
If Bellways TSR matched that of the index, 25% of the awards would vest.
Full vesting would be achieved for 7.5% per annum outperformance of the index.
The other half was measured by reference to the companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services companies and investment trusts.
Awards would start to vest at 25% if Bellways TSR matches the median of the companies in the Group, increasing on a straight-line basis so that full vesting would be achieved if Bellways TSR reached the upper quartile.
Regardless of TSR performance, no part of an award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period, taking into account, inter alia, operating profit, operating margin, ROCE and NAV.
The first part of the performance condition was not met and the second part was met in full so only the 50% of these awards which were linked to the FTSE 250 Index TSR performance condition vested, and the remaining 50% lapsed.
Details of the vesting of these awards which will take place in November and December 2016 is set out in full under the heading Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 July 2016 above.
The performance period is 1 August 2014 31 July 2017.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance condition set out in note 1 above except that the UK housebuilders group also includes Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, and these awards are also subject to clawback provisions.
On 13 November 2015 awards of performance shares under the 2013 PSP were made to Ted Ayres and Keith Adey.
The awards were in the form of nil cost options.
The face value of awards granted were equal to 130% of their respective salaries, which is in line with the Committees prevailing grant policy.
Ted Ayres was granted an award over 33,727 shares with a face value, on grant, of 803,400 and Keith Adeys award was over 19,701 shares with a face value, on grant, of 469,300.
The performance period is 1 August 2015 31 July 2018.
All of the above options set out in notes 14 were granted for nil consideration.
The gross gain made by Keith Adey on the exercise of the 2003 SRSOS award in the year was 73,221 the total gain made by Ted Ayres and Keith Adey on the exercise of share options in 2015 was 106,402.
The value of long-term incentive plans for both Ted Ayres and Keith Adey, which were exercised in the year and those which will become exercisable in 2016 17, are shown in the single figure of total remuneration table on page 62.
Further details of the 2003 and 2013 SRSOS are shown in the summary of outstanding share options in note 19 to the accounts.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 July 2016 was 2,096p and the closing range during the year was 1,689p to 2,848p.
64 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Dilution limits shares held in Trust to satisfy awards The Bellway Employee Share Trust 1992 the Trust holds market purchased shares to satisfy awards made under some of the Companys executive and employee share schemes.
At 31 July 2016 the Trust held 304,136 shares.
It is the Companys current intention to use market-purchased shares to satisfy awards made under the PSP and SMP.
Awards made under the deferred bonus plans to which the executive directors are not eligible must be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The SRSOS uses new issued shares.
The Companys share plans comply with the ABI guidance on dilution limits and the position as at 31 July 2016 was: Limit of 5% in any 10 years under all executive share plans Actual 0.02% Limit of 10% in any 10 years under all share plans Actual 1.58% Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests The directors interests including family interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out below: Director Beneficially Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Share options Share options owned at owned at and unvested and unvested and unvested vested but exercised in the 31 July 2016 31 July 2015 PSP awards SMP awards share options unexercised year John Watson 425,535 425,535 N A N A N A N A N A Ted Ayres 52,498 41,920 104,075 29,063 1,306 Keith Adey 18,526 7,158 60,277 17,618 1,538 3,463 Mike Toms 2,000 1,500 N A N A N A N A N A John Cuthbert 6,000 6,000 N A N A N A N A N A Paul Hampden Smith 12,548 8,196 N A N A N A N A N A Denise Jagger 1,250 1,000 N A N A N A N A N A Notes: 1.
There has been no change in any of the above interests between 31 July 2016 and the date of this report.
A share ownership guideline is in place requiring executive directors to build up a holding of 100% of their basic salary.
Both Ted Ayres and Keith Adey meet this guideline.
Further details on the guideline are set out in the remuneration policy above.
The following section of this report is not required to be audited.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 17 This section sets out how the Company will implement the remuneration policy for the 2016 17 financial year.
Basic salaries The Committee has awarded salary increases in line with the increases given to the general workforce of around 3% for 2016 17.
Accordingly, from 1August 2016, the Chief Executives salary was increased to 637,000 p. a. and the Group Finance Directors salary was increased to 372,000 p. a.
Annual bonus For the 2016 17 financial year, the bonus opportunity will continue to be limited to 120% of basic salary.
The performance conditions relate to a stretching target of pre-exceptional operating profit with a maximum payment of 90% of basic salary achievable and the following non-financial performance measures which provide a maximum bonus opportunity of 30% of basic salary.
Non-financial measure Objectives Score Land bank Increase in the land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the following financial year Maximum 15% of salary in the year to 31 July 2017 to ensure our growth aspirations are not frustrated by land shortages in future years.
Health and safety No deterioration of the NHBC health and safety incident rate from the baseline as a minimum Maximum 7.5% of salary and additional payments made for improvements in health and safety performance by reference to the NHBC health and safety incident rate.
Customer care No deterioration of previous years net assessment of customer satisfaction score as a minimum, Maximum 7.5% of salary with additional bonus opportunity for improvement in the Groups customer satisfaction score.
The customer care element is assessed using the average of six key indicators, as measured by the NHBC.
This measure is used as it reflects the metrics by which the performance of each division is managed by the executives.
For each non-financial element sliding scale targets will apply whereby a proportion of the bonus will be payable if a base threshold is achieved, with further bonus paid on a sliding scale for improvements in performance up to the maximum bonus opportunity.
In the event that the threshold profit criterion is not met, no bonus will be payable under the non-financial elements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 65 GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Long-term incentives The Company anticipates making a grant under the PSP in November 2016 with a face value equivalent to 130% of salary to the executive directors.
Awards will vest to executives after three years, subject to the achievement of performance conditions based around TSR, which measures the total return on a notional investment in Bellway shares, compared to the return on the same notional investment in shares in a group of other companies or an index.
The PSP award granted in 2016 17 will be subject to a relative TSR condition with 50% of awards measured against a group of housebuilders and the other 50% against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies and investment trusts.
Awards will also only vest subject to the achievement of an underpin, which requires an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
A two-year minimum holding period for any shares which vest after allowing for tax will apply.
This will increase the alignment of directors interests with the longer-term interests of shareholders.
Chairman and non-executive director fees From 1 August 2016 the Chairmans fee increased by 3% from 200,000 p. a. to 206,000 p. a.
The base fee for non-executive directors increased by 2.5% from 54,636 to 56,000 while the fees for chairing the Audit Committee and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration have increased from 5,305 to 8,000 providing an overall increase of 6.8% and the additional fee for the senior independent non-executive director has increased from 7,957 to 8,000 in each case to reflect the mid-market level of remuneration of a peer group of similar UK housebuilding businesses.
Performance graph and table The graph below shows the TSR performance over the past seven years of the Company, the FTSE 250 Index and the bespoke Housebuilders Index as defined in note 1 on page 64.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as the most appropriate broad equity market index as the Company has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index over this period and the bespoke Housebuilders Index has been selected as this index is used for the Companys long-term incentive plans.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 500 450 450 400 372 361 350 334 300 263 261 259 246 250 227 208 200 222 202 152 151 150 128 118 100 100 80 115 92 78 50 0 31 July 2009 31 July 2010 31 July 2011 31 July 2012 31 July 2013 31 July 2014 31 July 2015 31 July 2016 Bellway Housebuilders Index FTSE 250 Index This graph shows the value, by 31 July 2016, of 100 invested in Bellway p. l. c. on 31 July 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and 100 invested equally in each of the housebuilders currently contained in the FTSE 350 Index excluding Bellway.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
66 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Total shareholder return rebased GOVERNANCE Chief Executive total remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same seven-year period as for the chart above, together with the percentage of annual bonus paid and the vesting of long-term incentives as a percentage of the maximum relating to the performance periods ending in that year.
John Watson held the role of Chief Executive up until 31 January 2013 and Ted Ayres was Chief Executive for the remainder of the financial year from 1 February 2013 to 31 July 2013.
The total remuneration for the period as Chief Executive was 714,053 for John Watson and 528,500 for Ted Ayres.
Restated as per note 4 to the table on page 62.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage change over the prior year in respect of the Chief Executives base salary, benefits and annual bonus compared to the average increase across all employees.
% change Salary Chief Executive 3 All other employees 3 Benefits Chief Executive 7 All other employees 2 Annual bonus Chief Executive 11 All other employees 4 Importance of remuneration relative to dividends and section 106 and CIL payments The table below shows the relative expenditure of the Group in respect of employee remuneration, dividends and section 106 and Community Infrastructure Levy 'CIL' payments, together with the percentage change in each, for the financial years ended 31 July 2015 and 31 July 2016.
The directors have chosen dividends and section 106 and CIL payments as comparators to employee costs as they consider that these demonstrate the relative importance of the remuneration of its employees to the returns the Group generates to shareholders and the contribution it makes to developing communities through section 106 and CIL payments.
Employee costs are calculated as wages and salaries, bonus and taxable benefits including the directors.
The dividend figures shown are the interim and final dividends paid or payable for the relevant financial year less forfeited dividends see note 7 to the accounts.
The section 106 and CIL payments figures are calculated from invoices received for these payments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 67 GOVERNANCE Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Statement of voting at AGMs The votes cast by proxy at AGMs in relation to resolutions regarding director remuneration are set out in the table below: Directors Remuneration Policy Report of the Board on Directors binding vote at AGM on Remuneration advisory vote at 12December 2014 AGM on 11 December 2015 Number of votes % of votes cast Number of votes % of votes cast Votes cast in favour 89,575,994 97.67 91,626,703 99.85 Votes cast against 2,136,039 2.33 139,435 0.15 Total votes cast 91,712,033 100.00 91,766,138 100.00 Votes withheld 1,132,868 N A 1,633,131 N A This report will be put to an advisory vote of the Companys shareholders at the AGM on 13 December 2016.
On behalf of the Board Mike Toms Chairman of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration 17 October 2016 68 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016
