DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Statement Our Policy was and continues to be innovative and unique remuneration is dominated by deferred shares.
By heavily weighting remuneration in the form of deferred shares, executives are incentivised to create value over the long-term.
The use of deferred shares also guards against executives taking risks that endanger the long-term stability of the business.
AL BREACH CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholders, The Policy was defined by two key principles: As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and on behalf of the 1.
When our shareholders realise value over the long-term, so should Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for our Executives.
2016 comprising this statement, our Remuneration Policy that will be 2.
Our business is built on human capital it will only reach its potential presented to our shareholders for approval at our AGM and the Annual if we attract and retain the best talent available.
An executives remuneration package pursuant to the Policy later In 2016 and early 2017, the Remuneration Committee devoted approved by shareholders in 2014 comprises: considerable time to a review of our Policy, which included a pay review for our Non-Executive Directors.
Because we aim to ensure that the Salary entire executive management team is focused on the long-term and Payable predominantly in the form of long-term deferred shares remunerated in a way that aligns directly with the shareholders, the five years, complemented by a modest cash sum structure of the Policy as it applies to our Executive Directors will apply Amounts are fixed in a three-year contract and paid annually equally to executive management below the Board level, even though outside of the scope of the Policy.
I should also say that throughout our Performance-based remuneration process we have engaged with our major shareholders and are pleased Solely in deferred shares and dependent on Group performance and to report that we expect the 2017 Policy to be strongly supported.
the executive achieving KPIs for the year No LTIP The Committee also made its annual determination of the discretionary remuneration for our CEO, Irakli Gilauri, and the other executive Pension and benefit management in respect of 2016.
Provided but form a very small part of a remuneration package No cash bonuses The priorities set for 2017 were also advanced by the Committee.
With respect to executive management below the Board, we helped to set Vesting conditions apply to all deferred shares.
Both long-term deferred expanded self-development and mentoring KPIs and enhanced the salary shares and deferred discretionary shares may cease to vest in scope of management performance evaluation.
certain circumstances such a dismissal or resignation when the Executive does not depart on good terms with the Group.
REMUNERATION POLICY BACKGROUND 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY Our Policy was originally designed and implemented in Georgia in 2010, At the beginning of the Policy review process, the Committee first set its during the period immediately after the financial crisis when many of objectives for the Policy, which are: the remuneration practises and traditions in banking were being heavily criticised.
Among these practices were significant cash bonuses for Attract and retain the best talent available to execute our strategy and executives, which unfortunately too often rewarded short-term results meet our business objectives and promoted excessive risk-taking at stakeholder expense.
In 2010, Incentivise executives to focus on the Groups sustainable, long-term the Bank was already the market leader in Georgia but had barely performance and genuine value creation for our shareholders reached its potential.
In order to deliver increased shareholder return, Support our corporate culture which focuses executives on team the Bank needed to grow organically as well as capture new growth performance which creates value for both shareholders and the opportunities.
In order to recruit new management as well as retain executives when the whole enterprise thrives long-term both existing and new talent, the structure provided the opportunity Keep it simple and transparent to offer more competitive remuneration over the long-term to those who believed in the business and its potential, and wanted to be part of the growth story.
98 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC The Committee then carefully analysed the 2014 Policy against its Share focused remuneration also supports our culture of hard work, objectives.
The Committee also reviewed the historical executive and teamwork and loyalty as everyone benefits when the Group performs Group performance outcomes to assess whether the Policy had well over the long-term.
We are also attached to the simplicity and supported achievement of strategy and business objectives.
We are pleased to have avoided the now out of favour LTIPs and stand by our system which rewards As a result of this process, the Remuneration Committee is reaffirming its or penalises our executives when the shareholder is rewarded commitment to the principal tenets of our 2014 Policy, with the following or penalised.
three changes: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEE REVIEW 1.
The vesting period for discretionary shares has been increased from As to remuneration of our Non-Executive Directors, our new Policy two to three years.
moderately increases the fees solely cash payable commensurate 2.
For Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity has been fixed at 75% of total with the increased volume of work and time commitment required in salary an increase from 50% under the 2014 Policy.
respect of the growing and diversified business.
An Executive Director may work for any of our principal subsidiaries, Directors have remained static since listing in 2012 and we view it reflecting our investment platform strategy.
appropriate to increase the fees to reflect the size of the Group and in line with similar companies.
We propose to lift the ceiling on Mr Gilauris maximum opportunity from 50% to 75% of total salary to allow for additional headroom in the event DISCRETIONARY REMUNERATION FOR IRAKLI GILAURI of exceptional performance, although we continue to restrict Mr Gilauris Despite the depreciation of the Lari, 2016 was another record year maximum opportunity to less as a proportion of salary than that of other for the Group.
It was a strong year of strategic progress and excellent Executive Directors and members of executive management below the earnings growth.
Mr Gilauri met or exceeded expectations in respect Board level.
The Committee and the Board rated Mr Gilauris overall performance in 2016 as exceptional and the Committee strongly felt We are convinced that the Policy has worked well and has contributed that he deserved the maximum bonus that we awarded him.
to the strong total shareholder return the Group has delivered in recent years.
Since listing in 2012, the market capitalisation of BGEO has more than tripled, BGEO shares have been Al Breach among the FTSE 250s best performing shares and the Groups business Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has expanded in both size and scope.
Since the introduction of dividends 13 April 2017 in 2010, the Group has increased its annual dividend per share by 51.6% CAGR.
The Policy naturally aligns the interests of our management with those of our shareholders, since our executives are all long-term shareholders whose shares vest over a multi-year period.
The heavy weighting of remuneration in the form of deferred shares means that day-to-day actions are thus geared to the Groups long-term performance and interests and to executing the Groups strategy with those interests in mind.
At the maximum and minimum levels, 91% and 84% of Mr Gilauris 2017 remuneration, respectively, will be in the form of deferred shares.
This Remuneration Report is split into two sections: A Directors Remuneration Policy that, if approved, will apply to Executive and Non-Executive Directors from the date of the 2017 AGM The Annual Report on Remuneration, which relates to the Remuneration Policy approved at our 2014 Annual General Meeting The Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 100 to 106 will be subject to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 107 to 113, which includes the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee set out on pages 98 to 99, will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
This Remuneration Report complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where information in this Remuneration Report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP it has been clearly indicated.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 99 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
