DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Our Directors Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders in 2014 the 2014 Policy has been in place for three years, the maximum period permissible.
We will be presenting our new Remuneration Policy applicable to Directors the Policy, described in this section, to our shareholders for a binding vote at the AGM to be held on 1 June 2017.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement, the principles of our Policy as it applies to Executive Directors are: i heavily weighting salary to long-term deferred share remuneration rather than cash: and ii paying performance-based remuneration in the form of deferred shares only and no cash.
Pension and benefits are only a very small part of the remuneration package less than 5%.
These key principles have remained the same since 2010.
Our simple and strategically aligned remuneration structure means that Executive Directors are completely focused on delivering shareholder value.
Mr Gilauri continues to be BGEOs sole Executive Director.
Mr Gilauri entered into a new three-year service agreement with JSC Bank of Georgia the Bank on 24 August 2015 which became effective 1 May 2016, consistent with the terms of the 2014 Policy.
In connection with the Board adopting the new Policy, Mr Gilauri agreed to amend this service agreement to extend the reflected vesting period for discretionary shares to three years after award, which he has also voluntarily agreed to apply to the 2016 work year and is reflected in an amendment to his Service Agreement.
Mr Gilauri's salary, which has remained the same since 2013, will not increase under the Policy.
As mentioned in the Chairman's Statement, the Policy introduces the following changes: The vesting period for discretionary shares increases from two to three years.
For Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity has been fixed at 75% of total salary an increase from 50% under the 2014 Policy.
An Executive Director may work for any of our principal subsidiaries, reflecting our investment platform strategy.
As to remuneration of our Non-Executive Directors, our Policy moderately increases the fees solely cash payable commensurate with the increased volume of work and time commitment required in respect of the growing business, now diversified in various sectors.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors have remained static since listing in 2012 while the business has tripled in size and expanded into different industries through our Investment Business.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from the date of the 2017 AGM and is intended to apply until the earlier of Mr Gilauri entering into a new service agreement with any principal subsidiary of BGEO, the terms of which differ from the Policy, or the 2020 AGM, at which time we will seek shareholder approval.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Policy provides for an Executive Directors remuneration package to be comprised of the elements set forth below.
SALARY IN THE FORM OF CASH AND LONG-TERM DEFERRED SHARES d PURPOSE AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY LINK TO STRATEGY To reflect the role and required The level of base salary for an Executive Director is There is no set maximum monetary value duties, skills, experience and fixed in his or her service agreement.
The level of salary for the salary for Executive Directors.
individual contribution to the is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee when However, the maximum level Group a service agreement is up for renewal.
of salary set for an Executive Director To recruit and retain talent Salary is comprised principally of long-term deferred will be no more than the Remuneration To promote long-term value shares deferred share salary, complemented by Committee considers reasonable based creation and share price growth a modest cash sum, which when combined with the on his duties, skills and experience, To encourage long-term remainder of the components of the remuneration provided that his salary will not exceed the commitment to the Group package, is competitive enough to attract, retain and salary currently awarded to Executives at To closely align the Executive develop high-calibre talent who buy into a remuneration the equivalent level of seniority.
Director and shareholders structure that supports reward over the long-term.
The salary of our sole Executive interests Deferred share salary is awarded in the form of nil-cost Director, CEO of BGEO, can be found options awarded at the beginning of the year following on page 107 of the Annual Report the calendar year when the Executive worked to earn on Remuneration.
such salary the work year.
Deferred share salary in respect of a work year will vest as follows: 20% in each of the second, third and fourth years following the work year, and 40% in the fifth year following the work year.
At vesting upon exercise of the nil-cost options, the Executive Director receives in addition to the vested shares cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the underlying shares between the date the award was made and the vesting date.
No malus or clawback provisions apply to base salary, because natural malus and clawback are built into the structure as described in the notes to the Policy table.
100 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC PERFORMANCE-BASED REMUNERATION DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARES PURPOSE AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY LINK TO STRATEGY To motivate and reward an Performance-based remuneration is awarded entirely in For an Executive Director other than Executive Director that meets the form of nil-cost options over BGEO shares which are Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity in or exceeds the KPIs set for him deferred no cash bonus.
respect of the previous work year is or her.
Deferred shares in respect of a work year vest 33.33% in 125% of total salary.
Performance-based each of the second, third and fourth years following the For Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity in remuneration solely in the form work year.
At vesting upon exercise of the nil-cost respect of the previous work year is fixed of deferred shares no cash : options, the Executive Director receives in addition to at 75% of total salary US$ 2,044,650.
Closely aligns the interests the vested shares cash payments equal to the dividends However, for an Executive Director other of an Executive Director with paid on the underlying shares between the date the than Mr Gilauri whose performance has shareholders award was made and the vesting date.
resulted in outstanding benefits for Minimises risk taking for KPIs for the Executive Director are set at the start of each shareholders, the Remuneration short-term gain work year and reflect the Executive Directors targeted Committee has reserved the right to Encourages long-term contribution to the Groups overall key strategic and increase the maximum opportunity in commitment to the Group financial objectives for the work year.
KPIs may also respect of the previous work year to include non-tangible factors such as self-development, 150% of total salary.
Early in the year following the work year, the Remuneration Committee will determine whether an award is merited based on the Executive Directors achievement of the KPIs set for the work year and the performance of the Group during the work year.
In appropriate cases where a strategic change or change in business circumstances has made one or more KPIs an inaccurate gauge of performance, the Remuneration Committee may base its assessment on alternative measures.
The outcome of the Executive Directors performance and the Committees determination will be reported in the Directors Remuneration Report for the work year in consideration.
There is no contractual right to discretionary remuneration and the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to award no discretionary deferred share remuneration if the Groups performance is unsatisfactory.
Malus applies under the circumstances as set out in the notes to this Policy table.
PENSION PURPOSE AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY LINK TO STRATEGY The provision of a retirement Pension contributions not exceeding a percentage of the Additional contributions of the Executive benefit helps to attract and retain Executive Directors gross monthly cash salary are payable Director will be matched in a proportion of high-calibre talent.
0.2 to one, but only up to a maximum of 1% of gross monthly salary where the Executive Director makes additional contributions of up to 5% of gross monthly salary.
BENEFITS PURPOSE AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY LINK TO STRATEGY Non-cash benefits are in line with Benefits consist of: life insurance: health insurance: The Remuneration Committee determines Georgian market practice and are incapacity disability insurance: Directors and officers the maximum amount payable.
The designed to be sufficient to attract liability insurance: physical examinations: tax gross-ups: maximum amount payable depends on and retain high-calibre talent.
company car and driver: mobile phone including the cost of providing such benefits to an agreement charges and costs of calls made during employee in the location at which the business trips abroad : personal security arrangements Executive Director is based.
Shareholders if requested by the Executive Director : and assistance should note that the cost of providing with completing tax returns where required.
comparable benefits in different jurisdictions A tax equalisation payment may be paid to an Executive may vary widely.
Disclosure of amounts paid Director if any part of his remuneration becomes subject will be provided in the implementation report to double taxation.
and will be explained where the cost of benefits is significant.
NOTES TO THE NEW POLICY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1 Salary Deferred share salary is the most important element of the Executive Directors fixed annual remuneration and is commensurate with his role within the Group.
By heavily weighting salary to deferred share remuneration that vests over five years rather than cash, the Executive Directors day-to-day actions are geared towards achievement of the Groups strategic goals and sustained Group performance over the long-term.
The deferred share Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 101 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED salary component is neither a bonus nor an LTIP: it is salary fixed at the outset of each three-year service agreement and is therefore not subject to performance targets or measures.
That salary 40% of which vests a full five years after the work year increases or declines in value depending on Group performance over the five-year vesting period, aligning the Executive Directors interests directly and naturally with those of shareholders.
Specific malus and clawback are not applied to salary.
Natural clawback and malus are built in to the structure, given that shares are deferred over a long period and are subject to a number of vesting conditions which, if breached, would result in the Executive Directors salary shares fully lapsing, unless the Board otherwise agrees.
An Executive Directors service agreement may be terminated for cause, a definition which is broadly defined and extends beyond standard malus and clawback triggers to include, for example, gross and wilful misconduct having a material adverse effect on the Group, fraud, material repeated failure to perform his duties, breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony.
An Executive Directors unvested shares may also lapse if he terminates his service agreement early in the absence of repeated material wrongdoing by the company.
By way of example, an Executive Director terminated by the Board for cause in 2017 would normally give up because his shares would fail to vest : his entire deferred share salary for 2017 and 2016 and 80%, 60% and 40% of his deferred share salary for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
As a result, an Executive Director is motivated to perform to the best of his ability and to act in the long-term interest of and remain with the Group to ensure that salary shares vest.
2 Performance-based remuneration The Group does not operate an LTIP because it believes there is sufficient long-term incentive built into its deferred share salary and discretionary deferred share remuneration.
No cash bonuses are paid to Executive Directors.
Instead, individual and Group performance is rewarded through an award of discretionary deferred share remuneration that vests over three years beginning in the second year following the work year.
As discretionary deferred share remuneration is awarded to reward past performance over the work year, it is not subject to any performance measures over the period from award to vesting.
After the end of each work year, the Remuneration Committee will determine the aggregate number of shares based on the share price at the time of the award, if any, available to award in respect of discretionary deferred share remuneration for all members of executive management, including Executive Directors, in relation to the defined maximum opportunity and based on the Groups performance and the individuals KPIs.
The Remuneration Committee does not utilise strict weighting of performance measures to ensure that flexibility is encouraged if, for example, strategic objectives evolve as the Group does or business circumstances change during the year.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this flexibility ensures that the Board can work with an Executive Director so that he does not take excessive risk to achieve KPIs when, for example, markets have turned.
Even in a good year for an Executive Director e. g. achievement of most of his KPIs, if this coincides with a bad year for the Group e. g. poor financial performance by it, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award little or no discretionary remuneration to the Executive Director.
If at any time after awarding discretionary deferred share remuneration, it has been determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial results for the work year in respect of which the award was formally granted, the Board has the right to cause some or all of the Executives unvested discretionary deferred shares at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse.
Similar to deferred share salary, natural clawback and malus are built in to the structure.
Discretionary deferred share are also subject to vesting conditions which, if breached, would result in the Executive Directors salary shares fully lapsing, unless the Board otherwise agrees.
3 Discretion The Committee retains certain discretion in relation to discretionary share remuneration.
This includes: The determination of the award, if any Selection of KPIs, which may vary from year to year in order to align with strategy and financial objectives Any adjustments required to an Executive Directors KPIs during the work year when, for example, there has been a change in strategy or business circumstances which results in one or more of KPIs becoming an inaccurate gauge of performance EQUITY COMPENSATION TRUST AND DILUTION LIMITS An equity compensation trust Trust, was established for the purposes of satisfying deferred share remuneration awarded to Executive Directors and members of executive management.
In 2016, the Board approved funding of approximately US$ 30 million to enable Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited Sanne, acting as trustee of the Trust, to purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards in respect of the 2015 and 2016 work years.
Since listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2012, a total of 1,138,283 shares have been purchased in the market for the Trust.
We intend for Sanne to continue purchasing additional shares in the market, but may need to issue new shares, in order to ensure that there are a sufficient number of shares committed to the Trust in order to satisfy awards.
The Group continues to commit to shareholders that new shares issued in satisfaction of deferred share remuneration from the time of the Companys listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE will not exceed 10% of BGEOs ordinary share capital over any ten-year period.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS It is a provision of this Policy that the Group will honour all pre-existing obligations and commitments that were entered into prior to this Policy taking effect.
The terms of those pre-existing obligations and commitments may differ from the terms of the Policy and may include without limitation obligations and commitments under service agreements, deferred share remuneration schemes and pension and benefit plans.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received on our remuneration structure each year as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies, as we view shareholder input as key when shaping remuneration policy.
In 2014, 2015, 2016 and early 2017, we met with a number of our significant shareholders to discuss our remuneration structure and engaged directly with several shareholder advisory groups.
The feedback we received was positive and our shareholders were widely supportive of our executive remuneration structure, understanding that although it varies from a typical UK remuneration structure in that we do not operate an LTIP or give cash bonuses, the absence of cash bonuses and the dominance of deferred share remuneration in the overall remuneration package creates a direct and natural alignment of shareholder and executive management interests.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP When determining an Executive Director's remuneration, the Remuneration Committee considers: i the pay and employment conditions of executive management other than Directors : ii any changes in pay and employment conditions across the Group as a whole: iii whether employees across the Group are personally satisfied with the way they are remunerated: and iv any feedback received during the year from the Human Resources department, executive management and other employees on the executive remuneration structure.
102 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC We frequently benchmark remuneration at all levels within the Group in order to ensure that our remuneration is competitive in order to attract the right candidates and remain competitive in order to motivate, satisfy and retain our talent.
The remuneration of employees in the Group, other than Executive Directors and executive management, is benchmarked against the Georgian labour market as this is the most relevant comparator.
Each year, the Bank participates in the largest salary survey in Georgia.
Survey results are used to offer competitive remuneration packages when recruiting as well as benchmark the salaries of the Group's employees on an annual basis in order for the Group to upwardly adjust the remuneration of current employees in order to remain competitive.
Our employees' remuneration packages are comprised of cash salary, bonus opportunity, benefits as well as the opportunity to participate in the pension scheme on the same terms as applicable to Mr Gilauri and executive management.
For a FTSE 250 company of our size and depth, our Executive Directors and executive management must have the skills, experience, work ethic and attitude required to successfully execute our strategy, meet our objectives and create value for shareholders over the long-term.
In order to recruit and retain this talent, we must benchmark the value of remuneration against other FTSE companies of similar size and sector in the UK.
Our executives are not paid cash bonuses and therefore remuneration in the form of deferred shares will comprise nearly all of total remuneration.
As it is not possible for a direct comparison to be made between executive remuneration and remuneration of other employees in the Group, the most important consideration for us is whether other employees are satisfied with their remuneration packages.
In 2015 and 2016, employee surveys were conducted by the Human Resources department, targeted at a large number of employees with varying skill, seniority, department, among other factors.
The results confirmed that employees consulted were satisfied with the manner in which they were compensated.
Our retention rate of employees is high.
COMPARISON WITH REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EMPLOYEES GENERALLY As mentioned above, the components of the remuneration package for Executive Directors as provided for by the Policy are broadly the same as those for non-Board members of the executive management team.
Members of senior management below the executive management level and middle management receive their entire salary in cash and do not receive a deferred share salary.
Their bonuses may be either in the form of cash and or shares which vest over a three-year period following the award.
All other employees within the Group receive a cash salary and may be eligible to receive cash bonuses, portions of which may be deferred until the publication of the audited annual results for the work year and or based on continuous employment with the Group.
The deferred portion of the cash bonus may also be reduced if it is revealed, upon completion of the annual audit, that the annual results published by the department where the employee works were incorrect in any material respect.
Natural clawback, including normal lapse of shares upon termination for cause also applies.
All employees receive a competitive benefit package in line with Georgian market practice and are entitled to participate in the pension scheme on the same terms as applicable to Executive Directors.
TOTAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY FOR OUR SOLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR The chart below shows the remuneration which Mr Gilauri, our sole Executive Director, could receive in respect of 2017 under the Policy at three different performance levels.
It should be noted that, at the maximum level, 91% of Mr Gilauris 2017 remuneration will be in the form of deferred shares for which the average vesting period exceeds four years.
At the minimum level, 84% of Mr Gilauris 2017 remuneration will be in the form of deferred shares.
Maximum US$ 4,770,850 43% 48% 9% Target US$ 4,157,455 34% 55% 11% Minimum US$ 2,726,200 84% 16% Discretionary deferred shares compensation Fixed share salary Fixed cash salary Notes: 1 Salary is comprised of cash and deferred share salary.
Mr Gilauris total cash salary in 2017 in respect of his service agreements with the Group will be US$ 437,450.
The value of the deferred share salary payable is US$ 2,288,700, calculated by reference to the share price as at the date Mr Gilauris most recent service agreement with the Group was signed on 24 August 2015, being US$ 25.43 per share the official share price of GBP 16.16 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5738, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
The price is the value at which the shares were committed to the Trust and underlies the determination of remuneration expense in the Groups accounts.
Deferred share salary in respect of 2017 will be formally granted in 2018 and will vest in January 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022.
For the purposes of this graph, we have added the value of pension and benefits only about 0.1% of total salary to cash salary.
The value used is the same as 2016 as we assume pension and benefits in 2017 will be substantially the same.
2 The means of determining the number of shares underlying the discretionary deferred share remuneration and terms and conditions applicable to this remuneration are described in the Policy table.
Discretionary deferred shares in respect of 2017 will be formally granted in 2018 and will vest in January 2019, 2020 and 2021.
3 Minimum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives only fixed remuneration which is salary cash and deferred shares, pension contributions and benefits and the Remuneration Committee considers that the Groups and or Mr Gilauri's performance in 2017 does not warrant any award of discretionary deferred shares.
4 On-target opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives fixed remuneration as described in iii above and discretionary deferred shares with a value of US$ 1,431,255, being 70% of the maximum opportunity as described in 5 below.
In this scenario, the Remuneration Committee considers that the Group's and Mr Gilauri's performance in 2017 is in line with the Groups expectation, which is excellent performance.
5 Maximum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives fixed remuneration as described in iii above and discretionary deferred shares with a value of US$ 2,044,650, being 75% of total salary.
In this scenario, the Remuneration Committee considers that the Groups and Mr Gilaurils performance in 2017 warrant the highest possible level of discretionary deferred share remuneration.
6 The value of deferred shares does not take into account any increase or decrease in share price over the vesting period or any dividend equivalents payable on vesting upon exercise of the nil-cost options.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 103 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The fees for Non-Executive Directors are currently the same as when BGEO listed in February 2012.
Since listing, the market capitalisation of BGEO has more than tripled and the Groups business has expanded in both size and scope.
Each Non-Executive Director also serves as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank and since 2016, each has devoted an increasing amount of time to the Investment Business arm through JSC BGEO Group.
This Policy reflects a moderate increase in fees to reflect the volume of work and time commitment required for the complexity of our Group.
Our 2014 Policy provided for fee review in 2017.
It is proposed that, if the Policy is approved, the Non-Executive Director fees stated below will apply in each year that the Policy operates from the date of approval of the Policy.
Further, the Non Executive Directors will receive in the second half of 2017 a top up payment to allow the Non Executive Directors to reach the level of fees indicated for the 2017 financial year.
PURPOSE AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY LINK TO STRATEGY To attract and retain high All fees are paid in cash.
Aggregate BGEO and subsidiaries base performing Non-Executive Fees will be reviewed the year we propose a new fees for Non-Executive Directors Directors with the requisite policy to shareholders, taking into account the time excluding the Chairman and Senior skills, knowledge, experience, commitment, responsibilities and the technical skills Independent Director are US$ 109,500. independence and other required to make a valuable contribution to the Board, The Chairman and Senior Independent attributes to add value to and by reference to comparators, benchmarking, Director receive higher base fees which the Group.
results of the annual review and other guidance.
reflect increased responsibilities and time To reflect the time commitment Additional fees are payable to compensate for the skill commitment.
The Chairman will receive dedicated by Non-Executive provided and time spent discharging JSC BGEO Group, an aggregate flat fee of US$ 313,900 Directors.
Bank Supervisory Board and Committee duties.
and our Senior Independent Director There is no remuneration in the form of deferred share will receive an aggregate base fee of salary or discretionary deferred share remuneration, US$ 146,000. pensions, benefits or any variable or performance-linked Committee fees range from US$ 6,570 remuneration or incentives.
Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses, including travel and accommodation, which are incurred in the course of carrying out duties under their letters of appointment, on provision of valid receipts.
The maximum amount payable depends on the cost of providing such expenses in the location at which the Non-Executive Director is based.
Shareholders should note that the cost of providing comparable expenses in different jurisdictions may vary widely.
POLICY ON THE APPOINTMENT OF EXTERNAL HIRES AND INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Policy provides for a new Executive Directors remuneration package to be comprised of the elements set out below.
ELEMENT POLICY AND OPERATION Overall The Committee intends that the components of remuneration set out in the above Policy tables, and the approach to those components as set out in the Policy tables, will subject to the remainder of this recruitment policy be equally applicable to the annual package provided to new recruits.
Any new Executive Director would be paid no more than the Committee considers reasonably necessary to attract a candidate with the relevant skills and experience, taking into account where appropriate either the annual total monetary value or the total number of shares awarded to executives at an equivalent level of seniority.
Relocation benefits and buy-out awards may also be required to recruit the right candidate, subject to the conditions and restrictions outlined below.
For internal promotions, any commitments made prior to the appointment may continue to be honoured as the executive is transitioned to new remuneration arrangements.
Any pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate, within the parameters set out in the Policy tables.
The rationale for the compensation package offered will be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration published after commencement of the appointment.
Base salary In accordance with the Policy and the Overall summary above.
Discretionary In accordance with the Policy and the Overall summary above.
deferred shares Malus and or clawback would operate in respect of discretionary share remuneration.
Pension Pension provision would be in line with normal policy and the Overall summary above.
Benefits In accordance with the Policy and the Overall summary above.
Relocation support for an incoming Executive Director and, where relevant, his or her family may be provided depending on the individuals circumstances.
BGEO has not set a maximum aggregate amount that may be paid in respect of any individuals relocation support, but it will aim to provide support of an appropriate level and quality on the best terms that can reasonably be obtained.
The Group may make a contribution towards legal fees in connection with agreeing employment terms.
The Group may also agree to pay certain expenses and taxes should an executive director be asked to relocate to a different country, such that the executive director pays no more than would have been required in the home location.
Buy-out awards In addition to other elements of remuneration described above, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their current employer.
If a buy-out award is required, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing and value of awards forgone in any replacement awards.
Awards will only take the form of deferred shares.
The value of these deferred shares would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the awards which the individual had to surrender in order to be recruited and the vesting period of such deferred shares would be a similar timeframe to the awards being bought out.
The application of performance conditions and or clawback provisions may also be considered, where appropriate.
104 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE FOR OUR DIRECTORS The following paragraphs 1 to 3 summarise the termination and payments for loss of office provisions pursuant to Mr Gilauris service agreements with BGEO and the Bank.
In 2016, and as of the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauri remained the sole Executive Director on the BGEO Board.
The termination provisions of Non-Executive Director letters of appointment is described in paragraph 4 below and our approach to termination and payments for loss of office for future Executive Directors is described in paragraph 5.
The Directors service agreements and letters of appointment are kept for inspection by shareholders at BGEOs registered office.
1 Termination of BGEO service agreement dated 15 December 2011 Mr Gilauris service agreement with BGEO is for an indefinite term subject to annual re-election at the AGM and is terminable by either party on four months written notice.
Where the service agreement is terminated on notice, BGEO may put Mr Gilauri on garden leave for some or all of the notice period and continue to pay his cash salary under the BGEO service agreement, provided that any accrued and unused holiday entitlement shall be deemed to be taken during the garden leave period.
BGEO may terminate Mr Gilauris employment early with immediate effect and without notice and pay in lieu of notice in the case of, among other circumstances, his dishonesty, gross misconduct, conviction of an offence other than traffic-related or becoming of unsound mind.
BGEO may also terminate the agreement with immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice, in which case the payment in lieu of notice shall be solely in respect of cash salary due under the BGEO service agreement as at the date of termination of employment.
2 Termination of Previous service agreement with the Bank dated 19 February 2013 This service agreement was subject to variations on 26 February 2014 and 24 August 2015.
The latter variation was in connection with Mr Gilauris change of role to Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
The termination provisions in this service agreement are broadly on the same terms as the service agreement described in paragraph 3 below.
3 Termination of Bank service agreement dated 24 August 2015 Mr Gilauris service agreement with the Bank is for an initial term of three years expiring on 1 May 2019 and was amended on 16 March 2017 to extend the vesting period of discretionary deferred shares to three years, which shall be applicable in respect of the 2016 work year.
The service agreement may be renewed by agreement between the parties or terminated prior to the expiry of the term by either Mr Gilauri or the Bank.
The Bank may terminate the service agreement immediately without notice subject to the terms set out below, whereas Mr Gilauri may terminate the agreement upon three months written notice or such shorter period as is agreed with the Supervisory Board of the Bank and CEO of the Bank.
SEPARATION PAYMENTS i Mr Gilauri will be entitled to only: accrued and unpaid cash salary: holiday pay: reimbursement of business expenses: accrued but not yet paid dividend equivalents: and benefits upon termination of the service agreement in the following circumstances: by the Bank for cause cause being defined as gross and wilful misconduct in the course of his duties having a material adverse effect on the Group, fraud, material repeated failure to perform his duties or breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony, among other circumstances : by reason of death or disability in which case he receives life or disability insurance benefits : or by Mr Gilauri other than for good reason.
See the discussion below for the treatment of unvested share awards in the above circumstances.
Good reason is defined as an uncorrected material breach of a material provision of the service agreement by the Bank which is not cured within 45 days upon Mr Gilauri serving notice of breach, or material and unremedied illegal or unethical behaviour by Bank employees which has been notified to the Board by Mr Gilauri and the Board fails to react and cooperate with Mr Gilauri in addressing the behaviour.
ii Mr Gilauri will be entitled to: a separation payment of 12 months cash salary: accrued and unpaid cash salary: holiday pay: and reimbursement of business expenses upon termination of the service agreement in the following circumstances: By Mr Gilauri for good reason By the Bank for any other reason excluding: a voluntary termination by Mr Gilauri: b termination for cause: or c death or permanent disability fully covered by insurance If the service agreement is not renewed on substantially similar terms on expiry If the service agreement is terminated for any of the reasons set out in ii directly above, the Bank may assign Mr Gilauri garden leave for a period of up to four months following the termination of his employment during which the Bank will compensate him only in the form of his regular cash salary with all other benefits, bonuses, incentive or reimbursements excluded.
Mr Gilauri will be required to adhere to non-compete and non-solicitation restrictions for a period of six months following termination.
In addition, the Bank may impose a two-year non-compete period, subject to a materiality threshold, in exchange for accelerated vesting of his deferred share remuneration as described on the next page.
DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION ON TERMINATION Mr Gilauri will be entitled to an award of his deferred share salary in respect of any incomplete calendar year which he has worked.
He may also be awarded discretionary deferred share remuneration if: His service agreement expires and is not renewed upon substantially similar terms He does not accept a new service agreement, but continues as a member of the BGEO Board and or becomes a member of the JSC BGEO Group Board, as the case may be His service agreement is terminated before its expiry date but he continues as a member of the BGEO Board and or becomes a member of the JSC BGEO Group Board, as the case may be Mr Gilauri will not be entitled to any deferred share salary for calendar years covered by the agreement period during which he has not worked.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 105 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED VESTING AND LAPSE OF EXISTING AWARDS Unvested deferred share remuneration granted in respect of the 2015 work year and all prior work years Unvested deferred share remuneration granted in respect of the 2015 work year and all prior work years will vest upon termination of the service agreement, save for in the following circumstances: If Mr Gilauris service agreement is terminated for cause, unless otherwise agreed with the Board, his unvested deferred share remuneration will lapse if Mr Gilauri terminates his service agreement for any reason other than good reason, unless otherwise agreed with the Board in favour of Mr Gilauri, 50% of his unvested deferred share remuneration will vest immediately and the remaining 50% will, at his discretion, either continue to vest as normal or he may acquire some or all of his unvested deferred share remuneration at the price per share recorded in the IFRS accounts on the respective grant dates plus a 10% annual increase from the respective grant date until the date of purchase if any by Mr Gilauri Unvested deferred share remuneration granted in respect of the 2016 work year and beyond Any unvested deferred share remuneration will, unless otherwise agreed with the Board, lapse on the termination date if Mr Gilauris services agreement by: The Bank for cause Mr Gilauri for any reason other than for good reason Any unvested deferred share remuneration will vest immediately if: The Bank terminates the service agreement other than for cause Mr Gilauri terminates the service agreement for good reason The service agreement expires and neither a renewed agreement on substantially similar terms is offered nor BGEO and or JSC BGEO Group Board membership continues Mr Gilauri ceases to be an Executive Director by reason of death, disability, injury, redundancy or retirement at normal retirement age: or There is a change of control of the Bank, BGEO or any intermediary holding company of the Bank as appropriate If Mr Gilauris service agreement expires and he refuses to continue as a member of the BGEO and or JSC BGEO Group Board, 50% of his unvested deferred share remuneration will vest immediately and the remaining 50% will, at his discretion, either continue to vest as normal or he may acquire some or all of the underlying shares for a he may acquire some or all of his unvested deferred share remuneration at the price per share recorded in the IFRS accounts on the respective grant dates plus a 10% annual increase from the respective grant date until the date of purchase if any by Mr Gilauri.
In consideration for this vesting treatment, Mr Gilauri will be bound by a two-year non-compete period during which he may not be employed by, provide consultancy services to or otherwise found or be a partner or associate of a commercial bank in Georgia save that he may hold less than 5% of shares of a publicly listed bank.
If Mr Gilauris service agreement expires and: i is not renewed upon substantially similar terms, or ii he does not accept a new service agreement, but he is continues as a member of the BGEO and or JSC BGEO Group Board, 50% of his unvested shares vest immediately and the remaining 50% shall continue to vest as normal.
If he subsequently ceases to be a member of the Bank and or BGEO Board, at Mr Gilauris discretion, unvested shares either continue to vest as normal or he may acquire some or all of the underlying shares for the specified price as described above.
MALUS If at any time after awarding discretionary deferred share remuneration, it has been determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial results for work year in respect of which the award was formally granted, the Board has the right to cause some or all of the Executives unvested discretionary deferred shares at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse.
4 Termination of Non-Executive Directors appointments The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors provide for a one-month notice period although BGEO may terminate the appointment with immediate effect without notice or pay in lieu of notice if the Non-Executive Director has committed any serious breach or non-observance of his or her obligations to BGEO, is guilty of fraud or dishonesty, brings BGEO or him herself into disrepute or is disqualified as acting as a Non-Executive Director, among other circumstances.
Upon termination, the only remuneration a Non-Executive Director is entitled to is accrued fees as at the date of termination together with reimbursement of properly incurred expenses incurred prior to the termination date.
5 Approach to termination and payments for loss of office for new Executive Directors Any payment upon termination of a new Executive Directors service agreement would not exceed 12 months cash salary under the relevant service agreement, plus any accrued and unpaid cash salary, benefits and holiday pay and reimbursement of any business expenses.
The Group may assign the Executive Director garden leave for a period of up to four months following the termination of his employment during which he will compensates only in the form of his regular cash salary with all other benefits, bonuses, incentive or reimbursements excluded.
The Executive Director may also be required to adhere to non-compete and non-solicitation restrictions for a period of six months following termination.
It is expected that the vesting provisions listed below will apply to deferred share remuneration in the case of termination of a new Executive Directors service agreement.
Unvested deferred share remuneration would lapse upon termination of the service agreement by BGEO or material subsidiary of BGEO for cause or if the Executive Director terminates his employment for any other reason than good reason.
Unvested deferred share remuneration would continue to vest in the normal way during the respective vesting period s upon termination by BGEO or material subsidiary of BGEO without cause: if the Executive Directors service agreement expires and he is not offered a new service agreement on substantially similar terms on expiration: or if the Executive Director ceases to be an Executive Director by reason of injury, disability, redundancy or retirement at normal retirement age.
Unvested deferred share remuneration would vest immediately upon death of the Executive Director: termination of the service agreement by the Executive Director for good reason: or a change of control.
Notwithstanding the above vesting terms for current and future Executive Directors, the Board reserves the right to permit unvested deferred share remuneration to vest irrespective of the Executive Directors departure when such Executive Director departs on good terms with the Group.
106 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is principally responsible to the Board for establishing the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman and designated executive management that rewards them fairly and responsibly, and is designed to promote the long-term success of the Group.
The Remuneration Committees full Terms of Reference were last updated in March 2016 and are available on our website at http: bgeo.
"SHAREHOLDER CONTEXT The Directors Remuneration Policy applicable to this section of Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 28 May 2014 the ""2014 Policy."
The Directors Remuneration Policy received the following votes from shareholders: Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy 26,121,743 91.91 2,300,144 8.09 28,421,887 128,908 Set out below are the shareholder voting figures for the Directors Remuneration Report including the Annual Statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee presented at our 2014, 2015 and 2016 AGMs.
Date of AGM Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld 28 May 2014 25,901,873 93.59 1,773,857 6.41 27,675,730 875,065 21 May 2015 28,081,250 93.98 1,799,042 6.02 29,880,292 87,002 26 May 2016 28,335,277 91.35 2,683,660 8.65 31,018,937 82,265 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR THE SOLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AUDITED The table below sets out the remuneration received by BGEOs sole Executive Director, Irakli Gilauri, for 2016 and 2015 in respect of his employment with the Group.
Mr Gilauri receives no additional remuneration for any role at a subsidiary or affiliate within the Group.
Mr Gilauris current service agreements provide for salary in the form of cash and deferred shares.
In addition, Mr Gilauri is eligible to receive discretionary deferred share remuneration up to a maximum of 50% of total salary cash and deferred shares.
Approximately 81% of Mr Gilauris remuneration for 2016 set forth in the table below is in the form of deferred shares, for which the average vesting period exceeds four years.
Discretionary Cash Deferred share Total deferred share Taxable Pension Dividend salary salary salary remuneration benefits benefits equivalents Total 1 2 3 4 5 6 US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ 2016 437,500 2,177,342 2,614,842 1,307,313 1,239 1,698 389,793 4,314,885 2015 437,500 1,954,157 2,391,657 1,099,473 1,252 1,801 196,459 3,690,642 Notes: 1 Expressed in Dollars but paid in British Pounds and Lari, as applicable, converted into the respective currency as at the date of payment.
Accordingly, there may be variations in the numbers above and those provided in the accounts.
The figures show the value of the BGEO shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of the relevant year.
For both 2016 and 2015, the award was 90,000 BGEO shares.
In 2016, a new service agreement that Mr Gilauri signed on 24 August 2015 came into effect on 1 May 2016.
For 2016, the value of the deferred share salary payable is calculated as follows: a from 1 January 2016 until 1 May 2016 when the prior service agreement was in effect, the share price used is the date the prior service agreement was signed, being US$ 21.71 per share based on the official share price of GBP 14.06 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5443, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date : and b from 1 May 2016 until 31 December 2016 when the new service agreement was in effect, the share price used is the date the new service agreement was signed, being US$ 25.43 per share the official share price of GBP 24.90 per share as at 24 August 2015 converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5738, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
For 2015, the value of the deferred share salary payable is calculated by reference to the share price set out in a above.
Under the deferred share programme, the option awards in respect of deferred share salary are formally granted in January of the year following the year to which the award relates the work year even though the number of deferred salary shares is fixed in the contract.
The terms and conditions applying to deferred share salary are described in section 1 a of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
pdf and consistent with the Policy table on page 100 and Note 1 to the Policy table on pages 101 to 102.
3 Discr etionary deferred share remuneration.
The figures show the value of BGEO shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of bonus awards in the relevant year.
For 2016, options were awarded over 37,450 BGEO shares.
The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 28 February 2017 which was US$ 34.91 based on the official share price of GBP 28.05 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.2445, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
For 2015, options were awarded over 47,000 BGEO shares.
The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 12 February 2016 which was US$ 23.39 based on the official share price of GBP 16.16 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4458, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
The discretionary remuneration in respect of 2016 is deferred and vests over three years in equal amounts, beginning in January of the second year following the work year as amended in Mr Gilauri's Service Agreement whereas the vesting period in respect of 2015 discretionary remuneration is over two years in equal amounts, also beginning in January of the second year following the work year.
Both the 2015 and 2016 awards are subject to the leaver provisions described on pages 105 to 106 and in section 3 of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
The means of determining the number of shares underlying this remuneration and the terms and conditions are described in section 1 b of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
pdf and consistent with the Policy table on page 101 and Note 2 to the Policy table on page 102.
The basis for determining Mr Gilauris 2016 discretionary award is described on the next two pages.
The figures show the gross taxable value of health, life and personal accident insurance.
The figures show the aggregate employer contributions for the relevant years into the Groups defined contribution pension scheme.
Under the Groups defined contribution pension scheme, normal retirement age is 65.
The figure shows the dividend value paid in respect of nil-cost options exercised in the relevant years.
7 Mr Gilauri was reimbursed for reasonable business expenses, on provision of valid receipts.
8 No money or other assets are received or receivable by Mr Gilauri in respect of a period of more than one financial year, where final vesting is determined by reference to achievement of performance measures or targets relating to the relevant period.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 107 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The following table sets out details of total remuneration for Mr Gilauri for the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2016 and his discretionary remuneration as a percentage of maximum opportunity.
The Company does not have a LTIP and therefore the table does not include long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Single figure of total remuneration US$ 2,002,386 3,488,463 3,142,021 3,690,642 4,314,885 Discretionary remuneration as a percentage of maximum opportunity % 94.9% 83.2% 54.7% 91.9% 100% Notes: 1 Single figure of total remuneration for 2015 and 2016 has been calculated in accordance with the table on the previous page.
In 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, the maximum opportunity for Mr Gilauri was 50% of salary.
3 In 2014 and 2013, the value of the Mr Gilauri's deferred salary shares was calculated by reference to the share price of US$ 21.71 an amount calculated as described in Note 2 to the table on the previous page.
In 2012, the value of the salary deferred shares was calculated by reference to the global depositary receipt GDR price on 25 May 2010 of US$ 10.20 per GDR.
4 For 2014, options were awarded on 19 March 2015 over 25,000 BGEO Shares.
For 2013, options were awarded on 25 February 2014 over 25,000 BGEO shares.
The share price on 19 March 2015 was US$ 26.17 based on the official share price of GBP 17.77 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4727, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date: and the share price on 25 February 2014 was US$ 39.79 based on the official share price of GBP 23.85 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.6682, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
The award of discretionary deferred shares was 30,000 BGEO shares in respect of 2012.
The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 15 February 2013 which was US$ 21.49 per share based on the official share price of GBP 13.84 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5525, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
The maximum opportunity in 2012 was less than 50% of Mr Gilauris total remuneration.
BASIS FOR DETERMINING MR GILAURIS DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION IN RESPECT OF 2016 Mr Gilauris KPIs include both objective and non-tangible components.
The objective elements largely track the Groups KPIs as he is expected to deliver on the Groups strategy, but the KPIs also include non-tangible factors such as leadership, strategy development and implementation as well as corporate and social responsibility.
Strict weighting is not imposed on the KPIs below for the reasons mentioned in section 1 b of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
pdf which is consistent with Note 2 of the Policy table on page 102.
The following table sets out the objective KPIs set for Mr Gilauri in respect of 2016 as well as Mr Gilauris performance against them.
KEY PERFORMANCE 2016 2016 INDICATOR TARGET PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE EVALUATION BANKING BUSINESS Return on Average Equity 20% 22% Target met, driven by the strong retail banking segment.
ROAE Retail loan book growth 20% 39.5% Target exceeded, driven by loan origination across all Retail Banking segments.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS Value of our Investment y-o-y growth Exceeded All businesses showed growth throughout 2016.
Combined revenue and net Business expectations profit normalised increased 76% and 60% y-o-y, respectively.
The share price of GHG more than doubled and GGU EBITDA grew by over 10%.
Investment Business Continued Exceeded Management was significantly strengthened at our Investment Businesses.
management teams enhancement expectations Key executive management appointments were: i Archil Gachechiladze as CEO of GGU: ii new executive management for each of GHG's ambulatory 2 and pharma businesses: and iii new CFOs for each of m Real Estate and Teliani Valley.
The level of management below executive management was also strengthened at each investment business.
GROUP-WIDE Management team Coaching Met expectations Mr Gilauri intensified his focus on coaching and mentoring of the management and team.
In 2016, two leadership development programmes were developed and mentoring two Group coaching sessions were held.
Mr Gilauri provided personal guidance to members of management who engaged with the coaching process or otherwise showed a high level of motivation and strong performance.
Promotions were awarded in appropriate cases.
Self-development Continued Met expectations Mr Gilauri continued to prioritise self-development, principally through analysis selfof his own management style.
He has made substantial progress in development addressing the weaknesses identified in earlier periods.
His increased self-awareness has resulted in him improving his own leadership skills and has had a very positive effect on the wider management culture.
In terms of objective KPIs, Mr Gilauri met or exceeded all KPIs, as described on the previous page.
In addition to the pre-set KPIs, Mr Gilauri's 2 accomplishments in 2016 include the provision of strategic direction to the CEOs of each of the Bank, GHG, GGU, m and Teliani Valley: oversight and support of significant corporate transactions and changes to business lines: management succession planning: and philanthropy.
2016 business highlights include: JSC BGEO Group PLC issuance of a US$ 350 million Eurobond GHG acquisition of two pharma companies Group acquisition of the remaining 75% stake in GGU Teliani Valley construction of a brewery and acquisition of an exclusive ten-year license with Heineken: Launch of the Retail Banking client-centric model Separation of Solo and MSME from mass market Retail Banking 108 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC Mr Gilauri's succession planning for Bank and GGU executive management in 2016 significantly enhanced Group leadership.
At the Bank, Kaha Kiknavelidze became CEO, followed by the appointments of David Tsiklauri as Deputy CEO Investment Banking and Ramaz Kukuladze as Deputy CEO MSME and Premium Retail Banking.
At the same time, Archil Gachechiladze, a highly experienced member of executive management at the Bank, became the CEO of GGU.
In 2016, Mr Gilauri also continued to expand the Groups social and environmental agenda, which is described on pages 46 to 52.
Notably, the Bank: i implemented strict requirements for customers to adhere to internationally recognised environmental and social sustainability standards: ii offered finance opportunities to female entrepreneurs on favourable terms otherwise unavailable in the market: and iii created new debit card products for students with benefits such as discounted free transportation, loyalty points and discounts at bookstores.
Funding to programmes Mr Gilauri initiated in previous years to enhance access to education the Bank of Georgia University MBA programme as well as Chevening and Fulbright scholarships increased in 2016.
For 2016, the Committee found that Mr Gilauris overall performance was exceptional.
As a result, the Committee determined that Mr Gilauri should be awarded discretionary deferred share remuneration at maximum opportunity.
The Committee agreed to award Mr Gilauri 37,450 shares.
MR GILAURIS 2017 KPIS DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION For 2017, in respect of objective KPIs, we plan to continue measuring Mr Gilauris performance against KPIs which reflect the separation of our Banking and Investment Businesses as well as the strategy of the Group as a whole.
Banking Business ROAE of 20% Retail loan book growth of 20% Investment Business Y-o-y growth of the value of our investment businesses as targeted Continued enhancement of our investment business management teams Group-wide Continued coaching and mentoring of the management team Continued self-development PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO The following table sets out details of the percentage change in the remuneration awarded to the CEO between 2015 and 2016, compared with the average percentage change in the per capita remuneration awarded to the Groups employees as a whole between 2015 and 2016.
See the Single Total Figure Remuneration Table on page 107 for an explanation of cash salary, deferred share salary, taxable benefits and discretionary deferred remuneration of Mr Gilauri.
Percentage change for the CEO Average percentage change for the Groups employees as a between 2015 and 2016 whole excluding Mr Gilauri between 2015 and 2016 Total cash salary 0% 14% Total deferred share salary 11% 13% Taxable benefits -1% 29% Total bonus discretionary deferred share remuneration, 19% 32.2% in the case of Mr Gilauri, and deferred discretionary share remuneration plus cash bonus, in the case of other employees of the Group FURTHER DETAILS OF FIXED AND DISCRETIONARY CONTINGENT DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION GRANTED DURING 2016 AUDITED The following table sets out details of the nil-cost options over BGEO shares which have been granted to Mr Gilauri in 2016 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
Please note that the information presented in this section is for the 2015 financial year.
Deferred share salary Discretionary deferred share remuneration Number of underlying shares 90,000 granted on the basis described in the table in 47,000 granted on the basis described in section 1 b of and basis on which award section 1 a of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
com uploads was made com uploads pages .
Type of interest Nil-cost option Nil-cost option 1 2 Cost to Group as reflected US$ 1,954,157 US$ 1,099,473 in accounts 1 2 Face value US$ 1,954,157 US$ 1,099,473 Cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the Cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the underlying shares will be made upon vesting.
underlying shares will be made upon vesting.
Percentage of award 100% of the award will be receivable, since the award is 100% of the award will be receivable, since the award is receivable if minimum part of the executives salary set out in the 2013 contract based on 2015 performance and is not a LTIP award performance achieved and accordingly is not subject to performance measures and accordingly is not subject to performance measures or targets over the vesting period.
or targets over the vesting period.
The options form part of the Executive Directors Nil.
The options make up the entirety of the Executive salary under the policy and so no payment is required Directors performance-based remuneration and so no upon exercise.
payment is required upon exercise.
See section 1 a of the 2014 Policy available at http: See section 1 b of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 109 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Notes: 1 Deferred share salary.
The figures show the value of the BGEO shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of 2015.
The award was 90,000 BGEO shares and the value of the deferred share salary is calculated using the share price as at the date the prior service agreement was signed, being US$ 21.71 per share based on the official share price of GBP 14.06 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5443, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
2 Discr etionary deferred share remuneration.
The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 12 February 2016 which was US$ 23.39 based on the official share price of GBP 16.18 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4458, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date.
The means of determining the number of shares underlying this award and the terms and conditions are described in section 1 b of the 2014 Policy available at http: bgeo.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out the remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director in 2016 and 2015.
He also serves as Chairman of both the Nomination and Remuneration Committees and was most recently appointed to the Critical Quality and Safety Committee in February 2017.
In 2016 and 2015, Neil Janin received remuneration of US$ 111,000 and US$ 89,706, respectively from GHG PLC in respect of his services.
Mr Janin has no entitlement to fees in respect of his position on the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
2 On 4 September 2015, Mr Morrison was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of GHG PLC.
He also serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of both the Nomination Committee.
He stepped down from the Critical Quality and Safety Committee in February 2017.
In 2016 and 2015, Mr Morrison received remuneration of US$ 156,000 and US$ 102,664, respectively from GHG PLC in respect of his services.
Mr Morrison has no entitlement to fees in respect of his position on the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
3 Ms Loikkanen was appointed to the Boar d of BGEO and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 12 June 2015 and 27 August 2015, respectively, and therefore the fees reflected in respect of 2015 have been pro-rated from the date of appointment until 31 December 2015.
4 Kaha Kiknavelidze resigned from the Board of BGEO and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 6 September 2016.
5 Bozidar Djelic resigned from the Board of BGEO and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 15 December 2016.
6 The maximum amount for BGEO base fees, including the Chairman, as provided for in BGEOs Articles of Association, is GBP 750,000.
In 2016, no payments were made to past Directors, nor were payments made for loss of office.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN BGEO GROUP PLC TSR VS.
THE FTSE INDICES TSR The following graph compares the Total Shareholder Return TSR of BGEO Group PLC with the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index and FTSE 100 Index for the period since BGEOs listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE on 28 February 2012 until 31 March 2017.
BGEO Group PLC has been a member of the FTSE 250 since 15 June 2012.
For further context and comparison, our TSR performance is also compared to that of the FTSE 100 index as it has consistently outperformed the FTSE 100 over the past four years.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table shows the difference in remuneration paid to all employees of the Group between 2015 and 2016 as well as the difference in value of distributions paid to shareholders by way of dividends between 2015 and 2016.
Remuneration paid to all employees of Distributions to shareholders by way of the Group dividends Year ended 31 December 2015 US$ dividend for year 2014 77,384,819 33,575,932 Year ended 31 December 2016 US$ dividend for year 2015 83,805,260 36,876,228 Percentage change 8.3% 9.8% 110 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES AUDITED The following table sets forth the respective holdings of BGEO shares of each Director as at 31 December 2015 and 2016.
As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2016 Number of Number of Number of vested unvested and Number of vested unvested and but unexercised unexercised BGEO but unexercised unexercised BGEO shares held shares held under BGEO shares BGEO shares under option option through held under option held under option through deferred deferred share through deferred through deferred share salary and salary and share salary and share salary and discretionary discretionary discretionary discretionary deferred share deferred share deferred share deferred share remuneration all remuneration all remuneration all remuneration all nil-cost options nil-cost options nil-cost options nil-cost options Number of with no with no Total number of Number of with no with no Total number of BGEO shares performance performance interests in BGEO BGEO shares performance performance interests in BGEO held directly conditions conditions shares held directly conditions condition shares 1 Irakli Gilauri 250,319 289,500 539,819 202,315 439,000 641,315 2 Neil Janin 35,729 N A N A 35,729 35,729 N A N A 35,729 David Morrison 26,357 N A N A 26,357 26,357 N A N A 26,357 3 Al Breach 16,400 N A N A 16,400 16,400 N A N A 16,400 Kim Bradley 1,250 N A N A 1,250 1,250 N A N A 1,250 Tamaz Georgadze N A N A N A N A Bozidar Djelic N A N A N A N A Notes: 1 Mr Gilauris unvested and unexercised shares include all options granted in respect of the 2016 work year.
In March 2017, Mr Gilauri exercised options in respect of 126,000 BGEO shares, of which 25,200 BGEO shares were withheld to satisfy tax liabilities.
After the exercise Mr Gilauri held 303,115 vested BGEO shares.
2 At year-end 2016, NeilCo Limited, a company wholly-owned by Mr Janin, held 10,000 BGEO shares.
In March 2017, Mr Janin purchased 3,500 BGEO shares is his personal capacity.
3 At year-end 2016, Gemsstock Growth Fund, which Mr Breach manages, held 20,000 BGEO shares.
Save for Mr Gilauris exercise of options as set out in Note 1 above and Mr Janins purchase of shares as set out in Note 2 above, there have been no further changes in the interests of each Director listed above since 31 December 2016 and the date of this Annual Report.
The Remuneration Policy is heavily weighted towards remuneration in deferred salary shares and deferred discretionary shares.
In respect of 2016, 81% of Mr Gilauri's compensation was in the form of deferred shares.
The long vesting periods, particularly for deferred salary shares five years, result in executive management having large holdings of shares.
Accordingly, the Group does not apply a shareholding guideline or impose a holding period on Mr Gilauris shares.
The Policy naturally results in our executives holding a significant number of unvested shares and achieves a delay between performance and vesting.
We believe these results are consistent with the principles of the Investment Management Association.
As at the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauris vested and unvested shareholding is 616,115 BGEO shares, representing approximately 1.56% of the share capital of BGEO.
The vesting period for the majority of unvested shares exceeds three years.
None of Mr Gilauris connected persons have interests in any BGEO shares.
The Group does not require Non-Executive Directors to hold a specified number of shares in BGEO.
Notwithstanding this, some Non-Executive Directors have chosen to become shareholders.
Several of our Directors chose to subscribe for shares in the GHG IPO in 12 November 2015.
The following table sets forth the respective holdings of GHG shares of each Director as at 31 December 2016.
Number of GHG shares held As at 31 December 2016 directly Irakli Gilauri 411,700 Neil Janin 88,000 David Morrison 116,600 Al Breach 30,000 Kim Bradley 19,000 MR GILAURIS INTERESTS IN GROUP DEBT SECURITIES AND REAL ESTATE Directors and executive management of the Group from time-to-time will purchase securities or real estate from Group entities on an arms-length basis.
In the interest of transparency, such transactions entered into by our sole Executive Director, Mr Gilauri, are described below.
2 Mr Gilauri participated in the US$ 25 million three-year bond offering by m Real Estate and the US$ 15 million two-year bond offering by Evex.
Both 2 bonds are listed on the Georgian Stock Exchange.
As at the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauri holds US$ 41,240 worth of m Real Estate bonds and US$ 312,780 worth of Evex bonds.
Mr Gilauri also purchased US$ 3,372 worth of Teliani Valley shares.
2 On 24 December 2015 and 3 October 2016, Mr Gilauri purchased an apartment in the m Real Estate Skyline Project in the amount of US$ 519,220 and US$ 416,239, respectively.
Mr Gilauri purchased these apartments on an arms-length basis.
DETAILS OF NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT Letters of appointment are entered into by BGEO with each Non Executive Director, generally for a three-year term and subject to our succession plan which permits service for a six-year period.
However, at the discretion of the Board, if the Non-Executives continued membership is in the best interests of the Group, he may be re-offered membership to the Board pursuant to a letter of appointment for an additional one-year term, which Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 111 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED may be renewed no more than two times.
All Non Executive Directors are proposed for annual re-election at the AGM.
The letters of appointment require Non Executive Directors to provide one months notice prior to termination.
If our Directors Remuneration Policy is approved at the 2017 AGM, new letters of appointment will be prepared, reflecting the new fees, revised corporate structure and enhanced responsibilities in respect of the Investment Business.
The table below shows each Non-Executive Directors date of appointment to the Board of BGEO.
Date of appointment Neil Janin December 2011 David Morrison December 2011 Al Breach December 2011 Kim Bradley December 2013 Tamaz Georgadze December 2013 Hanna Loikkanen June 2015 SHAREHOLDINGS OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Similar to Executive Directors, the remuneration of executive management is characterised by heavily weighted salary in the form of long-term deferred share remuneration rather than cash and performance-based remuneration in the form of deferred shares only and no cash.
The following table sets forth the respective holdings of BGEO shares of several members of executive management as at 31 December 2016 and 2015, which reflects the predominance of unvested shares.
As at 31 December 2016 As at 31 December 2015 Number of Total vested and Number of Total vested and Number of vested unvested BGEO unvested BGEO Number of vested unvested BGEO unvested BGEO BGEO shares shares shares BGEO shares shares shares Kaha Kiknavelidze 26,337 11,667 38,004 26,337 26,337 Levan Kulijanishvili 1,100 64,641 65,741 9 25,918 25,927 Avto Namichieshvili 18,095 154,750 172,845 58,139 108,750 166,889 Nikoloz Gamkrelidze 116,500 116,500 95,250 95,250 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION FOR 2017 The only changes in the way the Policy will be implemented in 2017 compared to how it was implemented in 2016 are an increase in maximum opportunity for Mr Gilauri capped at 75% of total salary and a moderate increase in Non-Executive Director fees.
Details of how the Policy will be implemented for the 2017 financial year are set out below.
FOR IRAKLI GILAURI FIXED PAY Total cash salary combined BGEO and Bank US$ 437,500 Total deferred share salary Bank US$ 2,288,700 Pension and other benefits No change from the stated Policy: Value is expected to be substantially to 2016 There are circumstances in which unvested deferred shares may lapse and narrow circumstances in which such shares may vest immediately are set out in the Policy.
2017 DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION Opportunity Maximum is 75% of total salary total cash salary and total deferred share salary as listed in the table above Deferral terms Early in 2018, the Committee will determine whether an award is merited based on the Executive Directors achievement of the KPIs set for the work year and the performance of the Group during the work year.
If Mr Gilauri is awarded discretionary deferred shares, the award will vest 33.33% in each of 2019, 2020 and 2021.
At vesting upon exercise of the nil-cost options, Mr Gilauri will receive in addition to the vested shares cash payments equal to the dividends paid if any on the underlying shares between the date the award was made and the vesting date.
Performance measures For 2017, the Committee has determined that the performance measures for will be based on the KPIs, subject to the and targets terms of the Policy.
Banking Business ROAE of 20% Retail loan book growth of 20% Investment Business Year-on-year growth of the value of our Investment Business as targeted Continued enhancement of our Investment Business management teams Group-wide Continued coaching and mentoring of the management team Continued self-development 112 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC Natural clawback and further malus are built in to the structure of Mr Gilauris remuneration above, given that both salary shares and discretionary shares are deferred and are subject to a number of vesting conditions which, if breached, would result in Mr Gilauris salary shares fully lapsing, unless the Board otherwise agrees.
His service agreement may be terminated for cause, a definition which is broadly defined and extends beyond standard malus and clawback triggers to include, for example, gross and wilful misconduct having a material adverse effect on the Group, fraud, material repeated failure to perform his duties, breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony.
His unvested shares may also lapse if he terminates his service agreement early in the absence of repeated material wrongdoing by the company.
Further malus applies to discretionary deferred shares if it is determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial results.
In this case, the Board has the right to cause some or all of the award for that financial year or for any subsequent financial year that is unvested at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse, as set out in the Policy.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The table below shows the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors for 2017.
All fees to Non-Executive Directors are paid in cash and reflect work performed for BGEO, JSC BGEO Group and the Bank Supervisory Board and its subsidiaries.
Fees were moderately increased in 2017 to reflect the additional duties in respect of the Investment Business.
Role 2017 fees Chairman aggregate all-inclusive fee US$ 313,900 Senior Independent Director base fee aggregate US$ 146,000 Non-Executive Director excluding Chairman and Senior Independent US$ 109,500 Director base fee aggregate Additional Committee fees Range from US$ 6,570 to US$ 17,520, depending on whether the Non-Executive serves as Chairman or Member of a Committee Notes 1 The term aggregate refers to work in respect of BGEO JSC BGEO Group and the Bank.
2 The allocation of base fees to BGEO does not and will not exceed the maximum amount of GBP 750,000 as set out in our Articles.
COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND ADVISORS The Committee is comprised of three members: our Chairman, Al Breach, an independent Non-Executive Director: David Morrison, our Senior Independent Director: and Neil Janin, who was independent on appointment.
The members attendance during 2016 is provided below.
% of Number of meetings Member Attendance meetings attended attended Al Breach 80% David Morrison 100% Neil Janin 100% In addition to the formal meetings held during the year, the Committee participated in various discussions by telephone outside of these meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings who provided advice or assistance to the Committee on remuneration matters from time to time included the CEO, Bank CEO, the other Board members, General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Attendees at Committee meetings do not participate in discussions or decisions related to their own remuneration.
The Committee received advice from Baker & McKenzie LLP, its legal advisors, on compliance and best practice.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW An internal review was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.
The evaluation principally addressed the composition of the Committee, the structure and effectiveness of the 2014 Policy, the design of the new Policy and the performance evaluation process.
The effectiveness evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate and perform effectively.
Our priorities for 2017 include: vigilant review of Executive Director and executive management performance as well as focus on senior and mid-level remuneration, motivation and development.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Al Breach Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 April 2017 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 113 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
