Directors remuneration report Letter from the remuneration committee chair After a thorough review and extensive shareholder engagement, we believe the new policy is simpler, transparent and has strategic focus.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling Chair of the remuneration committee Dear shareholder, We are proposing to make a number of significant Last years AGM remuneration vote was a clear changes to our remuneration policy for 2017 which will message about how we manage executive pay.
make it simpler, better align pay and performance, and We made a commitment to respond in a constructive lead to a reduced maximum award for the group chief way and have taken a comprehensive look at executive GCE and the chief financial officer CFO.
remuneration of our executive directors.
Although we are still working under our 2014 policy, We have held extensive dialogue with many of our we have used some of the principles from our new largest shareholders as well as representative bodies policy in making our decisions for pay in 2016.
We have beginning in May 2016 and running through to this considered the formulaic results and outcomes for years AGM.
We have listened and sought to respond shareholders and then exercised downward discretion to their concerns.
I would like to thank all those who to reach our final decisions.
took part in the process for their time and insight.
It is clear that shareholders and other stakeholders would As a result in a year of good performance and like our remuneration policy to be simpler, more progress Bob Dudleys total single figure for 2016 has transparent, and to lead to reduced levels of reward.
been reduced by some 40% compared to last year.
There is also a wish to see the committee make greater use of discretion.
Future remuneration policy BP is a global company with a global management The proposed remuneration policy is designed to team, competing for talent in a demanding ensure a clear link between delivery of BPs strategy environment.
The companys ability to attract and and pay.
retain the high-calibre executives required to lead this Over the past year, there has been much debate complex business is important for shareholders.
We in the UK regarding pay models.
We appointed new are mindful of this and have tried to balance these independent advisers and approached our review commercial pressures with the wider social context with an open mind.
We explored a number of different when determining executive pay.
Key outcomes for 2016 Bob Dudley total pay A year of progress Total single gure in and performance 2016 for Bob Dudley is for the company.
$13.8m $11.6m Committee discretion Maximum opportunity reduced pay by for 2017 and beyond $2.2 million.
2016 2016 2015 Formulaic Outcome after outcome committee discretion 80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
