Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In my first year as Remuneration Committee Chairman I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 2 October 2016 which has been another strong year for Britvic despite the continuing sector and economic challenges in our core markets.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Bob Ivell for Executive Director changes leading the Committee prior to my appointment earlier in the John Gibney stepped down from the board on 27 January 2016 year and the other members for welcoming me into my new and retired from the company on 5 April 2016.
I am also pleased to welcome Sue Clark who, as a new welcome Mathew Dunn as his successor.
Details of Johns member of the Committee, brings with her a wealth of business remuneration for the year are set out in this remuneration report.
I would also like to take this opportunity to say how Ican confi rm that the treatment of his remuneration on departure pleased the Committee was to continue to receive a very positive is in line with the approved Remuneration policy.
John has not response at the January 2016 AGM with 98.9% votes For the received any discretionary payments or payment in lieu of notice annual report on remuneration.
The Committee remains very in respect of his retirement from the company.
mindful of the current focus on executive pay and its implications Full details of Mathew Dunns remuneration package were disclosed across all our stakeholders and so I trust the actions taken in last years remuneration report.
I can reconfi rm that Mathews over the course of the year and disclosed below re ect that remuneration is in line with the approved Remuneration Policy and this responsibility is very much at the forefront of the Mathew did not receive any buy out awards or one off awards on Committees decision making.
his recruitment to the company.
The company did provide The contents of this annual statement provide an overview Mathew with some support to assist in his relocation from South of the remuneration outcomes for the period ending on Africa to the UK.
The intention to do this was disclosed last year 2 October 2016 and a summary of the business context and the details are set out in the following pages.
in which those outcomes have been determined.
The remainder of the report sets out: Business performance and remuneration outcomes for the year An at a glance summary of the remuneration outcomes for 2015 16 and an overview of how the Remuneration Policy for Whilst the business has faced challenges over the last fi financial directors will be implemented in 2016 17.
Page 61 year the overall performance for the three years ending in October 2016 has been strong.
This has resulted in: The Annual Report on remuneration which is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the January 2017 AGM and sets Annual bonus pay outs for Executive Directors at 80.6% of the out the detail of payments made to directors in respect of the maximum opportunity due to strong performance across all year ended 2 October 2016.
Page 67 three fi financial measures during the year: The current Remuneration Policy for directors approved by The performance share plan awarded in 2013 will vest at 65.8% shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM in of the maximum opportunity refl ecting sustained long-term January2015.
Page 76 ROIC and relative TSR performance over the last three years.
The executive share option plan awarded in 2013 will vest at 100% of the maximum opportunity due to strong EPS growth over the performance period.
However due to the recent share price volatility these vested options currently have no value as the exercise price is higher than the share price as at the year end.
In line with the remuneration reporting regulations, details of the performance targets and actual achievement against these are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 59 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Looking ahead to 2016 17 Shareholder engagement and Remuneration policy review in summer 2017 Our shareholders will be aware that the current and forward looking customer environment and price deflation in our core 2016 17 will be the final year of the current Remuneration Policy markets present potential challenges to the business.
In addition, that was approved by our shareholders at the January 2015 we are now dealing with greater economic uncertainty and AGM.
During the coming year the Committee will conduct a unfavourable exchange rate movements following the EU holistic review of the Remuneration Policy and consider what the referendum outcome as well as the UK governments proposed structure of executive pay should be for the next policy cycle.
In this context and in recognition that salary increases The objective of the review will be to consider all the internal, awarded to the wider workforce have been moderated, the external and wider stakeholder considerations including the Committee have determined that no salary increases should be implications from the various executive remuneration guidance awarded to the Executive Directors.
changes anticipated over the next few months and the corresponding evolving best practice.
In particular, the In the annual bonus the Committee has introduced an additional Committee is mindful of the recently released Investment component within the overall 30% revenue weighting.
Net Association guidelines including the recommendations made on revenue from innovation will have a 10% weight in the annual the disclosure of pay ratios.
I will be in contact again with our bonus for 2016 17 and will sit alongside the total net revenue larger shareholders over the course of 2017 to listen to your measure with a 20% weighting.
This is to reflect that net revenue views and feedback ahead of the 2018 AGM where a new from innovation is an increasing focus for the business and so the Remuneration Policy will be presented for shareholder approval.
Committee considered it appropriate to include it as a component of the annual bonus.
The targets set and the In the meantime, I look forward to receiving your support on the achievement against them for the 2016 17 annual bonus Annual Report on Remuneration at the January 2017 AGM.
measures will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
Should you have any questions relating to our approach to executive remuneration, please feel free to contact me at The Committee is also mindful that our medium term growth investors@britvic.
expectations and consensus estimates for the business have materially reduced since the range was last reviewed in 2014 where the business was in a different economic phase.
The Committee, therefore embarked on a consultation exercise in the second half of the year with many of our major investors to discuss a new range that would ensure that the LTIP awards to John Daly be made in respect of 2016 17 remain stretching in this new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee economic context and at the same time provide an effective and realistic incentive for executive directors and the wider senior leadership team.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank those shareholders who participated and I can confirm that a new three-year EPS range of 3% to 8% per annum growth will apply to the LTIP awards in respect of 2016 17, see page 68 for full details.
For clarity no changes are being made to the target ranges for existing LTIP awards.
