Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy For reference, the following is an extract from Britvics Remuneration Our overall approach to remuneration Policy approved at the 2015 AGM.
The full policy can be found in The principal objective of our executive Remuneration Policy is to the 2013 14 remuneration report on www.
support a performance-based culture that will help drive the successful execution of our business strategy.
We aim to provide There is no intention to revise the policy more frequently than competitive levels of remuneration opportunity for our senior every three years.
However the Committee will review the Executives and leadership team, a significant portion of which is Remuneration Policy annually in order to ensure it remains in the form of variable pay.
aligned with the companys strategy, appropriately positioned against the market and aligned with corporate governance In setting the Remuneration Policy the Committee carefully requirements.
considered corporate governance best practice and the companys environmental and social responsibilities.
In the event a change to the policy is required, the Committee will consult with Britvics major shareholders prior to submitting the policy for approval by all shareholders.
Remuneration Policy table The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy the Committee Please note that because the below is an extract of the will continue to apply to Directors in 2017 following its approval Remuneration Policy, some of the text relates specifically to the at the 2015 AGM.
Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and payment at target Performance measures Base Salary Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed annually, with any changes normally Whilst there is no prescribed formulaic maximum, annual increases will normally be n a taking effect from 1 January.
in the context of overall business performance and the level awarded to the general Element of fixed pay that reflects the GB-based workforce.
individuals role, position, experience and Out of cycle reviews may be conducted if considered appropriate by the Committee.
Higher increases may be made where there have been significant changes in the Base salaries are set with reference to comparator groups made up of similar sized responsibility and accountability in a role, where there are large UK listed companies both pan-sector and from the food and beverages sector.
variances to the market, for example in the case of a new Executive Director The Committee also has reference to international food and beverages companies.
appointed on a salary below the market median, or where there is a significant Alternative peer groups may be considered depending on the location and domicile change in the relationship of the company relative to the peer group.
Any significant of Directors based outside of the UK.
increases will be fully explained.
Benefits Benefits and allowances include but are not limited to: annual car benefit or The maximum levels of benefit provision are: n a allowance, membership of the companys private medical healthcare plan, and the To provide market typical benefits which Provision of a company car or car allowance paid in cash.
The company car rental ability to buy or sell holiday under the companys flexible benefits plan, payment of are valued by recipients and allow cost would not exceed 10,800 and a cash allowance would not exceed 10,634 up to two subscriptions to recognised professional bodies, and life assurance.
Executives to carry out their duties per annum efficiently.
There is also a relocation policy which provides for reasonable expenses to be paid Private medical insurance on a private basis subject to the Committees approval.
The value of any professional subscriptions paid by the company may vary but wouldnot be excessive Other benefits may be provided from time to time if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee and will be explained in the Annual Report on Life assurance cover of 4 times base salary Remuneration for the relevant year.
The value of any relocation allowance provided is dependent on the relevant circumstances when the need arises.
However the Committee would not pay more than necessary in such situations.
Up to 5 days holiday may be sold at a prorated value of the individuals salary.
Pension Pension provision is provided in the form of a defined contribution DC pension or For the defined contribution pension, the maximum annual contribution is: n a a cash allowance where the individual opts out of the pension scheme as a result of Supports a market aligned compensation 28% of base salary for the CEO exceeding the tax efficient pension savings limits set by HMRC.
package and assists participants plan for 25% of base salary for the CFO retirement.
A legacy defined benefit pension and Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS, a For the cash allowance, the maximum contributions reflect those under the DC securitised unfunded unregistered pension scheme, closed to future accrual on pension less a deduction to ensure the cash allowance is broadly cost neutral to the 10 April 2011.
Current Executive Directors have accrued benefits under these company from a National Insurance perspective.
A discounted one-off cash settlement of the BETUS may be offered to an eligible member of the legacy defined benefit plan who is leaving or retiring from the company.
76 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 76 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and payment at target Performance measures Base Salary Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed annually, with any changes normally Whilst there is no prescribed formulaic maximum, annual increases will normally be n a taking effect from 1 January.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 77 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 77 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and payment at target Performance measures Annual bonuses are paid after the year end of the financial year to which they relate.
Target and maximum opportunities are: The specific measures, targets and weighting may vary from Annual Bonus year to year in order to align with the groups strategy, but To motivate employees and incentivise Targets are set at the beginning of the performance year which runs from the start 70% and 140% of base salary for the CEO always with a substantial proportion based on key financial delivery of annual performance targets.
to the end of each financial period.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the bonus outcome if the pure The level of payment at threshold is set on an annual basis but For 2014 15 the annual bonus will be based 100% on key application of a formula is not felt to produce an appropriate result in light will not exceed 25% of the maximum award value.
In particular the Committee has the discretion to The performance conditions are set annually based on the adjust payments downwards if profits have fallen.
Any adjustment made using this metrics the Committee feels are most appropriate for the discretion will be explained.
business and create value for shareholders.
These may include, Malus and clawback may be applied in respect of the bonus in certain situations but are not limited to, profit, revenue and cash flow metrics.
where the payment of the bonus resulted from a material misstatement in the Strategic KPIs may be chosen to support particular objectives companys accounts or an error in the assessment of the satisfaction of a for the year.
Annual bonus targets are set with reference to internal budgets and analyst consensus forecasts, with maximum pay-out requiring performance well ahead of budget.
Further details of performance measures for the 2015 16 annual bonus are given on page 63.
Long-Term Incentives ESOP - Allows for annual grants of market value options.
Awards vest after three ESOP - The maximum opportunities are: The Committee chooses performance metrics measured Executive Share Option Plan ESOP years, subject to performance conditions.
Options expire 10 years following the over three years that support the companys long-term 300% of base salary for the CEO and Performance Share Plan PSP grant date.
strategic priorities, provide a direct link with shareholder 250% of base salary for the CFO value and ensure a clear line of sight for participants between PSP - Allows for annual grants of performance share awards.
Awards vest after To motivate and incentivise delivery of performance and reward.
PSP - The maximum opportunity is 150% of base salary for the three years, subject to performance conditions.
sustained, long-term performance and CEO and 100% for the CFO.
For ESOP grants made in 2014 15, performance will be encourage share price and dividend growth Under the PSP participants are entitled to dividend equivalents between award and measured using an EPS performance condition.
over the performance period of the awards.
Under the ESOP and PSP 20% of the maximum award vests vesting in respect of awards that vest.
for achieving threshold performance increasing to 100% of For PSP grants made in 2014 2015, 75% of performance will The Committee believes that long-term Malus and clawback may be applied in respect of LTIP awards in certain situations the maximum opportunity vesting for achieving maximum be measured using the same EPS performance condition as for incentive plan measures should be where the vesting of an LTIP award resulted from a material misstatement in performance on a straight line basis.
the ESOP, with the remaining 25% of performance measured simple, aligned to sustainable long-term the companys accounts or an error in the assessment of the satisfaction of a using relative TSR.
ROIC over the performance period will also shareholder value creation as well as performance condition.
be considered by the Committee in determining the level of providing line of sight to management so vesting at the end of the period.
that they are meaningful and incentivising.
EPS growth is a key measure of our success in growing value for shareholders over time.
The setting of the EPS targets takes into account analyst consensus forecasts, internal projections, and the levels of performance required over the long-term to deliver absolute value appreciation for shareholders.
Relative TSR strongly links share price growth and dividends to the rewards executives receive.
The relative nature of the measure ensures participants only receive awards if outperformance is achieved against a basket of investment comparables.
ROIC is an important financial discipline to ensure growth in the business continues to be value enhancing over the long-term.
The Committee may adjust the performance measures for future awards and the weighting of these measures if it feels this will create greater alignment with business and strategic priorities.
A significant change to the measures used would only be adopted following consultation with major shareholders.
Executive Directors are to acquire and then hold a certain shareholding from the Shareholdings are set at 200% of base salary for the CEO and n a Shareholding Guidelines date of their appointment to the board.
100% for the CFO from the date of appointment to the board.
To encourage long-term share ownership Until this holding is acquired, the Executive Directors may not sell any shares The Committee will monitor progress on this requirement on an by the Executive Directors so that interests received through the long term incentives operated by the company other than annual basis.
are aligned with other long-term investors to finance the cost of exercising share options and any tax liabilities arising from the vesting of long-term incentive plans, unless approved by the Committee for example, in cases of financial hardship.
78 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 78 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and payment at target Performance measures Annual bonuses are paid after the year end of the financial year to which they relate.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 79 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 79 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and payment at target Performance measures Executive Directors may participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan, which is an Free share awards, up to a maximum of 4% of earnings, The Committee has the discretion to limit the free share awards All-employee Share Plans all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to employees based in Great Britain.
in light of performance against internal profit targets.
To allow Executives to participate in The plan has three parts, all of which the Directors participate in: Partnership shares, up to 1,800 per year.
share plans on the same terms as other Matching shares, on a one for one basis up to a maximum employees.
Free share awards, which are made annually subject to the companys performance of650 per year.
and at the discretion of the Committee Partnership shares, which are purchased by employees through payroll deductions Matching shares, which are provided by the employer to individuals purchasing partnership shares The Committee reserves the right to use its discretion to amend the operation of the all-employee share plan from time to time.
Chairman and The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Committee, while the fees of The maximum fee level for each NED is set by reference to n a Non-Executive Director NED fees the NEDs are determined by the Board with affected persons absenting themselves fees paid in UK-listed companies of a similar size and scope from the discussions as appropriate.
To attract and retain experienced and skilledNon-Executive Directors.
Annual fees are paid to the Chairman and other NEDs on a monthly basis.
Any planned increases in fees will take into account general increases across the wider employee population.
Additional fees are paid to NEDs who are members of and who chair a board Committee and to the Senior Independent Director SID.
NED fee levels are periodically reviewed by the board for NEDs and the Committee for the Chairman.
Any increases to fees are normally effective from 1st January.
NEDs do not participate in company incentive arrangements, and do not receive any form of pension provision.
NEDs will be reimbursed by the company for all reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties of office.
80 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 80 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and payment at target Performance measures Executive Directors may participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan, which is an Free share awards, up to a maximum of 4% of earnings, The Committee has the discretion to limit the free share awards All-employee Share Plans all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to employees based in Great Britain.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 81 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 81 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Discretion regarding the treatment of leavers is set out in Service Remuneration policy notes contracts and the policy on the payment for loss of office section.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for all employees The Committee also reserves the right to make a remuneration All employees are entitled to base salary and benefits and may payment that originated from before the individual became an also receive bonus, pension and share awards the value of which Executive Director.
vary according to the individuals seniority and level of responsibility.
In relation to the annual bonus and LTIP plans, the Committee retains the ability to amend the performance conditions and or Share awards made prior to the implementation of measures in respect of any award or payment if one or more approved Remuneration Policy event s have occurred which would lead the Committee to Unvested ESOP and PSP awards will continue to pay out in consider that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Any payments under such an amendment would not be materially less difficult to these plans will be disclosed in the Annual Report on meet.
Remuneration as required by the regulations.
A summary of the If the Committee used any of the discretions set out above these operation of the outstanding awards is set out below: would, where relevant, be disclosed in the next Annual Remuneration Report and the views of major shareholders may Element Summary of Performance also be sought.
operation measures ESOP awards Maximum PSP 100% EPS Statement of consideration of employment made prior to the opportunity is 100% growth conditions elsewhere in Britvic 2014 15 financial of salary for the CEO The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions year and CFO.
ESOP is across the Group and has reference to average pay increases as shown in the main PSP awards 50% relative TSR and the average salaries for the wider employee population.
made prior to the These metrics are considered by the Committee when reviewing 50% ROIC Threshold payout is 2014 15 financial the remuneration for Executive Directors.
25% of the maximum year The company did not consult with employees when drawing up opportunity increasing the Remuneration Policy.
to maximum on a straight line basis.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views Committee discretion In addition to the discretion set out in this policy report, the The Committee is committed to on-going dialogue with the Committee may apply discretion in operating the Remuneration companys shareholder base.
This can take a variety of forms, Policy in certain matters including the following: such as: The timing of any payments Meetings with major shareholders to consider significant The impact of a change of control or restructuring potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to Any adjustments to performance conditions or awards particular shareholder groups required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, Other dialogue to update shareholders and take their feedback corporate restructuring event, special dividend or rights issue on planned refinements to arrangements The operation of malus and clawback provisions In drawing up the Remuneration Policy approved at the last Minor administrative matters to improve the efficiency of AGM, the Chair of the Committee wrote to Britvics major operation of the plans or to comply with local tax law or shareholders and key institutional representative bodies and held regulation several follow up meetings.
The views expressed by our shareholders during this process have been considered in the development of the Remuneration Policy.
82 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 82 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Approach to remuneration on recruitment When hiring a new Executive Director, or making internal promotions to the Board, the Committee will in principle apply the same policy as for existing Executive Directors, as detailed in the Remuneration Policy.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the next Annual Remuneration Report.
For internal promotions any commitments made prior to appointment may continue to be honoured as the Executive is transitioned to the new remuneration arrangements.
Our recruitment Remuneration Policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of high-calibre Executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver our strategic objectives.
The details are set out in the table below: Area Policy and operation Base salary Base salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current remuneration.
In some instances it may be appropriate to recruit on a salary at the lower end of the typical market range and progress salary increases above the typical rate of increases provided to the wider employee workforce to align with performance and policy over time Benefits and pension Benefits and pension would be in line with normal policy and may include, where appropriate, relocation benefits or other benefits reflective of normal market practice in the territory in which the Executive Director is employed Annual bonus Awards would be made under the annual bonus plan in line with the Remuneration Policy Maximum opportunity would not exceed 140% of base salary Normal LTIP awards Awards would be made under the LTIP plans in line with the Remuneration Policy ESOP and PSP Under the ESOP, maximum opportunity would not exceed 300% of base salary Under the PSP, maximum opportunity would not exceed 150% of base salary Additional LTIP awards On the recruitment of a director the Committee may make a one-off performance linked award ESOP and PSP under the ESOP and PSP subject to the below limits.
Under the ESOP an award of up to 500% of base salary may be made in a year to an executive inclusive of the normal annual award that would be granted to an executive Under the PSP an award of up to 200% of base salary may be made in a year to an executive inclusive of the normal annual award that would be granted to an executive Replacement awards The Committee will normally seek to avoid using replacement awards.
However where, in exceptional circumstances, replacement awards are considered by the Committee to be necessary, they are not subject to a formal maximum, although would be designed to reflect only the value of remuneration forgone by the recruited Executive or less.
In making any buyout awards the Committee would take into account any additional LTIP awards made as set out above Service contracts The Committee may agree a contractual notice period with the Executive which initially exceeds twelve months, as applies to other Executives, particularly if it is necessary to attract Executives who will be required to relocate their families This will reduce to a twelve month rolling notice period once the individual is twelve months from the end of their initial notice period Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 83 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 83 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office The table below sets out items that are contained within the service contracts for the Executive Directors.
It is the policy that these will apply to any future Director.
Item Policy Notice period 12 months if given by the company 6 months if given by the Executive Remuneration Base salary and pension Eligibility to participate in the annual bonus and LTIP and other share incentive plans Benefits Provision of company car or cash alternative Payment of professional subscriptions for up to two recognised professional bodies Eligibility for private medical insurance Contractual The company may terminate the Executives employment at any time and with immediate effect and will termination payment pay the Executive an after tax sum in lieu of notice equal to the basic salary which the Executive would have been entitled to receive during their notice period.
A payment may also be made in respect of outstanding untaken holiday entitlement accrued up to and including the date of termination Payments in lieu of notice would be paid monthly and are subject to mitigation if the Executive obtains alternative income during the period If the Executive is terminated for reasons such as gross misconduct no payment in lieu of notice will be due The Committee may at its discretion put the Executive on garden leave for any period provided that base salary and contractual benefits are paid during this period.
The Committee would only use this discretion when appropriate and would seek to minimise the cost to the company if such discretion was required Non-Executive The NEDs do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment for a three-year term Directors On termination NEDs shall only be entitled to accrued fees as at the date of termination In the event of a settlement agreement, the Committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.
This may include reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The table below sets out details of how an Executive Directors incentives and pension would be treated on termination.
Items of fixed pay are detailed in the previous table.
Incentives Treatment Annual Bonus In the case of retirement with the agreement of the Committee, redundancy, death in service, or such other reason as the Committee may in its discretion approve, the bonus will be pro-rated to the date of termination and paid on the normal payment date Executives leaving for any other reason will normally forfeit their awards ESOP & PSP Awards for executives who are treated as a good leaver under the rules of the LTIPs reasons include ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, change of control, retirement with the consent of the company, and any other reason at the Committees discretion will vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines the awards should vest at an alternative date taking into consideration the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied and time served over the performance period If the executive is not a good leaver, the awards will lapse immediately on termination If the executive ceases to be a director as a result of death, awards will vest as soon as practicable taking into consideration the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied and time served over the performance period Pension The Committee may consider offering a discounted one-off cash settlement to a member who is leaving the company to reduce the companys balance sheet exposure to the BETUS liability.
This is normally used at retirement All members of the defined benefits section of the pension plan Plan may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF which allows the Plan members to retire within five years of reaching normal pension age without a reduction in their pension.
The EERF includes benefits payable from BETUS and is non-contractual.
Continuation of the EERF formed part of the agreement with the Plan trustee on the closure of the defined benefit section of the Plan.
The company has given notice to all of the Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 5 April 2016 Other appointments The Executive Directors are not permitted to have any engagement with any other company during the term of their appointment without the prior written consent of the board.
On behalf of the board John Daly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 84 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
