DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2015 16 on behalf of the Board and to summarise the remuneration committee's main activities during the year.
This report contains the following parts: This Annual Statement which identifies the key messages on remuneration for the year under review and explains the business context in which the Committees major decisions FIONA LAIRD during the period were taken: Chairman of the Remuneration An amended proposed forward looking Directors Committee Remuneration Policy Report subject to a binding vote at the 2016 annual general meeting: and THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE An Annual Report on Remuneration which provides shareholders with details of the remuneration that was Member No.
of meetings actually delivered to the companys directors during 2015 16.
Fiona Laird Chairman 3 3 This final part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Ron McMillan 3 3 Simon Patterson 3 3 The Group is currently undergoing a significant transformation and is keen to ensure that the incentive arrangements remain RESPONSIBILITIES appropriate to successfully deliver this.
As a result, over the year the remuneration committee have undertaken a review of the Setting and reviewing the remuneration policy and long term incentive arrangements in place and we are now proposing to introduce a change to the performance conditions determining the total individual remuneration package for the LTIP.
This is designed to focus participants on the success for all executive directors, the companys chairman of the current business strategy and transformation.
This change and other designated senior executives recommending requires shareholder approval for a new Policy at the 2016 AGM.
and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration There will be no other substantive changes made to the policy for senior management having regard to pay and although minor changes to take account of developments in employment conditions across the Group: best practice and the passage of time will be made.
Approving the design of, and determine targets for, The Board believes that maintaining the highest standards of any performance-related pay schemes operated by corporate governance is essential to protecting shareholder value: the alignment of remuneration with the forward looking the company and approve the total annual payments business strategy is an integral part of this process.
As such made under such schemes in accordance with the Board has fully debated and approved the proposed provisions of the Code : remuneration changes to ensure that the incentive plans in place appropriately reward the delivery of our transformation Reviewing the design of all share incentive plans plan whilst ensuring alignment with shareholders.
We have for approval by the board and shareholders: also consulted with our top ten shareholders and investor bodies on this change and have taken on board their feedback.
Overseeing any major changes in employee benefits structures throughout the company or Group: and Ensuring that the company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
PRIORITIES FOR 2017 The committee will continue to foster a close relationship with shareholders in developing the remuneration policy.
The committee will oversee the introduction of the proposed new incentive schemes as detailed in this report.
The committee will oversee the implementation of new requirements in relation to gender pay gap reporting.
N Brown Group plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Proposed new LTIP performance conditions not been met.
The remainder of the normal annual bonus was Over the year, the Remuneration Committee have undertaken a based on meeting corporate and personal objectives and the detailed review of the appropriateness of the LTIP performance committee determined that 27.9% of salary was payable to the conditions in the context of the Companys transformation plan.
CEO and 20.7% of salary was payable to the CFO.
The current LTIP performance conditions are adjusted EPS growth in excess of RPI 60% weighting and relative TSR against The committee reviewed the EPS and TSR performance of the a peer group of retailers 40% weighting.
As part of the review, company in respect of the 2013 Long Term Incentive Share we have considered a range of performance measures and are Plan LTISP award.
The company was ranked below median proposing the following changes to performance conditions against its peers at the end of the three year performance to better align participants with the current business strategy period and did not meet the threshold EPS targets, as a result and transformation: of which the award lapsed.
Removal of relative TSR as a performance measure for the Upon her appointment the CEO was granted two one-off share LTIP it is our view that the use of relative TSR no longer awards as detailed in the 2013 Annual Report.
Vesting of the accurately reflects the performance of our business and is first, over shares worth 520,000 at the time of grant, was an inappropriate way in which to incentivise participants subject to employment conditions over two years which were as it does not directly align participants with the delivery met in the year.
The second, over shares worth 1,040,000 at of the strategic plan: the time of grant are subject to the achievement of strategic Maintain adjusted EPS as a measure but reduce the objectives measured over a period of three years as detailed weighting from 60% to 50% - our rationale remains that EPS in our 2015 Annual Report.
accurately reflects the performance of our business and the experience of our shareholders: The committee reviewed the salaries of the executive directors Introduction of free cash flow measure 30% weighting in April 2016 and determined that the CEO's salary should be free cash flow aligns with the transformation agenda and is increased by 2%, in-line with most of the general workforce, commonly used by retailers to monitor the flows of cash in with effect from 1 October 2016.
Following bench marking and and out of the business as well as providing an assessment a review of the industry backdrop, the committee determined of underlying profitability: and that the CFO's salary should be increased by 5% with effect Introduction of revenue measure 20% weighting revenue from 1 May 2016. growth is a critical KPI for the business and given that earnings measures make up the majority of the plan, there Awards with a face value of 150% of salary in respect of Angela is an appropriate balance to encourage revenue growth Spindler and 125% of salary in respect of Craig Lovelace were whilst maintaining margin.
Vesting of these awards is subject to growth in adjusted EPS in excess of RPI 60% weighting and The target ranges applying to each measure for awards to be relative TSR against a peer Group of retailers 40% weighting.
made in 2016 are set out in full on page 75.
In 2016 Angela Spindler and Craig Lovelace will again receive awards with a face value of 150% and 125% of salary The Committee works hard to ensure that targets are respectively.
The award will be granted in July 2016 and will be appropriately stretching and motivating to management.
In subject to the revised performance conditions set out above.
particular, following consultation with shareholders, we have listened to views about the maximum target under the EPS In May 2015, Craig Lovelace joined the company as Chief metric and we propose to increase the point at which 100% Financial Officer on terms described in last years Remuneration of this element of the LTIP is payable from the current level Report.
Dean Moore stepped down as Finance Director in of 7.5% annual growth in adjusted EPS in excess of RPI over April 2015.
As was noted in last years report, in accordance three financial years to 9%.
with the Remuneration Policy, Dean Moore has been paid the balance of his notice period.
Payments were phased over the The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that the changes remaining 9 months of his contractual notice period and were will provide a stable footing for remuneration to support the subject to an obligation to mitigate.
After due consideration the Fit 4 the Future strategy and achieve the following: Committee determined that Dean Moore was a good leaver and the terms in relation to good leaver therefore applied.
Provide an incentive structure that supports the strategic transformation of N Brown and incentivises participants: I will be available to answer any questions at the annual general Provide a more coherent incentive arrangement aligned meeting in July and very much hope that you will support the to shareholder value: revised Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Balance the need to retain and motivate the Executive team Remuneration at our forthcoming meeting.
with sufficiently challenging targets: and Remain in line with market practice, the views of investor I would like to thank all of my colleagues on the remuneration bodies and the increasing use of multiple metrics to monitor committee for all their hard work in reviewing the suitability of performance of executives.
the LTIP performance conditions and generally with the day to day tasks of the committee over the last year.
Remuneration outcomes for 2015 16 Annual bonus is paid 60% in cash and 40% deferred as a conditional award of shares that vest at the end of 3 years after the grant.
The principal performance metric for the normal Fiona Laird annual bonus was based on Group profit.
The committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee determined that this element of the annual bonus targets had N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED This report sets out the information required by Part 4 of the sufficiently stretching and linked to long-term profitability and Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and which do not encourage excessive risk taking.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing In particular, the committee strives to ensure that remuneration Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how packages are: the board has applied the principles and complied with the aligned with the Groups strategic plan: provisions relating to directors remuneration in the Code.
aligned with shareholders' interests: measured against stretching targets, both in absolute and It summarises the committees remuneration policy for the relative terms: executive directors which, if approved by shareholders at competitive and sufficiently flexible to support the the 2016 annual general meeting will become effective recruitment needs of the business: immediately for a period of three years.
paid in a combination of cash and shares: and linked to performance measured over annual and three-year The committees policy is designed to ensure that the main performance periods.
elements of the remuneration package are linked to the companys annual and long-term strategy, are appropriate in Summary of components of executive directors' quantum and capable of attracting, motivating and retaining remuneration executive directors.
The policy aims to reward executive The table below summarises the committee's policy for the directors and senior executives by offering them competitive main components of remuneration.
remuneration packages, which are prudently constructed, PURPOSE AND LINK ELEMENT TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Salary Reflects the performance Reviewed annually, taking Salary increases will normally None, although overall of the individual, their skills account of absolute Group be in line with increases individual performance is and experience, and the profitability and performance awarded to other employees a factor considered when responsibilities of the role against personal & corporate of the Group setting and reviewing salaries objectives Provides an appropriate More significant increases level of basic fixed income Set with reference to the may be awarded at the levels of base salary for discretion of the committee, similar positions with for example: where there is a comparable status, change in responsibilities or responsibility and skills in scope of the role: to reflect competitor organisations individual development of comparable size and and performance in the role complexity, in particular e. g. for recent hires : or in those in the home shopping exceptional circumstances and retail market sectors When reviewing salary increases the committee takes into account the impact of any increase to base salaries on the total remuneration package Any changes normally take effect from 1st October N Brown Group plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance PURPOSE AND LINK ELEMENT TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Annual Drives and rewards Targets are reviewed annually Chief executive: up to A significant majority of the bonus annual delivery of financial, to ensure that they are 150% of base salary p. a. annual bonus will normally be corporate and personal appropriate to the current Other executive directors: determined by reference to goals market conditions, the up to 125% of base salary p. a. performance against stretching long-term strategy of the Group profit measures Annual performance targets company and that they are aligned to the long-term continue to remain stretching Additional targets linked to strategic KPIs of the and challenging corporate performance and company and aimed at individual targets will be increasing shareholder Bonuses will be paid 60% in applied value, whilst being cash, with 40% deferred as a prudent and safeguarding conditional award of shares Personal objectives will be the future of the company measurable and linked to goals Vesting of future deferred that are consistent with the Deferral provides alignment shares is at the end of three Groups longer-term goals with shareholders and assists years from the award of the with retention bonus, subject to continued Performance below threshold employment save in good results in zero payment.
Payment rises from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity The payment of any earned for levels of performance bonus remains ultimately at between threshold and the discretion of the maximum, with 50% of the committee maximum normally payable for on-target performance Executives may also be entitled to receive dividends Includes a clawback equivalents on vested shares mechanism in the event of material misstatement of the Groups financial results or individual misconduct Long-term Provides appropriate Annual grants of performance Normal maximum of 150% The performance conditions incentive incentives to reward shares which vest, subject of salary for awards granted in 2016 17 plan LTIP sustained success through to the Groups performance, will be split between growth the achievement of measured over three years Exceptional circumstances in adjusted EPS in excess of challenging business maximum of 200% of salary RPI 50% of the award, free targets, thereby Participation and all awards cashflow 30% of the award aligning the interests are subject to the discretions and revenue 20% of the of shareholders and given to the committee in award.
The committee will executives the plan rules have the discretion to change the weightings of measures, Executives may also receive or use different measures for dividend equivalents on subsequent awards so that they vested shares are directly aligned with the Group's strategic objectives The Committee retains the for each performance period discretion to subject the LTIP awards to a holding period of Targets are set by the up to two years post vesting remuneration committee prior to each grant and will be based on a sliding scale.
For each measure, performance below threshold results in zero payment.
Payment rises from 25% at threshold to 100% of the maximum opportunity at a maximum performance level Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or individual misconduct N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PURPOSE AND LINK ELEMENT TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT AllAll employees, including The Group operates an HM The plans are subject to These are broad based plans employee executives, are able to Revenue & Customs approved statutory individual limits as and are not subject to share acquire shares by savings related share option amended from time-to-time performance targets schemes participating in the Groups scheme for the benefit of or such lower limits as set by SAYE all-employee share plan at Group employees provided the Group and SIP the discretion of the that they have completed Committee at least six months service.
Participation in the SIP may also be offered Pension Provides retirement benefits The company operates a Up to 15% of salary as a N A that reward sustained defined contribution plan company contribution to a contribution and may also provide cash defined contribution pension pension contributions or scheme and or as a cash cash supplements in lieu allowance Other Provides a competitive Main benefits currently Car and fuel allowance up to N A benefits package of benefits that include private medical 20,000 per annum assists with recruitment and insurance and a car retention allowance.
Executive Other benefits will be in-line directors are eligible for with market.
The value of other benefits which are each benefit it based on the introduced for the wider cost to the company and is workforce on broadly not predetermined similar terms Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit Notes: 1.
A description of how the company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for 2016 17 is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
T he remuneration policy for the executive directors and other senior executives is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for senior executives.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and senior executives, a greater emphasis tends to be placed on performance-related pay in the market.
All-employee share plans do not have performance conditions.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP on the same terms as other employees.
Copies of the LTIP rules are available on request from the company secretary.
LTISP awards granted prior to 2014 and LTIP awards prior to 2016 are subject to performance conditions described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
T he company also operates share ownership guidelines requiring executive directors to acquire and hold a specified level of shareholding.
The current level of holding expected under the guidelines is described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Awards may be structured as nil cost options, conditional awards of shares and may be delivered through a Joint Share Ownership Plan structure.
N Brown Group plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance How employees' pay is taken into account Legacy arrangements The remuneration policy for the executive directors is In approving the remuneration policy, authority is given to designed with regard to the policy for employees across the company to honour any commitments previously entered the Group as a whole.
The company's ability to meet growth into with the current or former directors in accordance with expectations and compete effectively is dependent on the the relevant plan rules, where applicable.
It is also part of this skills, experience and performance of all of our employees.
policy that the company will honour payments or awards As a result our employment policies, remuneration and crystallising after the effective date of this policy but arising benefit packages for employees are regularly reviewed.
from commitments entered into at a time when the relevant Whilst there are some differences in the structure of the individual was not a director at the company.
Details of any remuneration policy, these reflect individuals' differing payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual responsibilities, with the principal difference being the Report on Remuneration.
increased emphasis on performance related pay for the more senior executives within the organisation.
Selection of performance metrics and targets All incentives are subject to the individual review and scrutiny Although the committee does not consult directly with of the committee, particularly in the case of share incentives, employees on directors' pay, the committee does take into both at award and vesting to ensure that performance has consideration the pay and employment conditions of all been correctly adjudicated and to safeguard against excessive employees when setting the policy for directors' remuneration.
Variable pay and remuneration is linked to both The committee is also mindful of any changes to the pay corporate and individual performance and is benchmarked and benefit conditions for employees more generally when to attract and retain the highest quality people.
considering the policy for directors' pay.
The annual bonus is designed to thoroughly stretch the Committee discretions performance of the executive and is linked to absolute growth The committee operates the Groups variable incentive in annual Group profit, the achievement of certain business plans according to their respective rules and in accordance targets and of personal objectives.
These targets are reviewed with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient and agreed by the committee at the beginning of each financial administration of these plans and to be consistent with year to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market market practice, the committee will retain certain operational conditions and the long-term strategy of the company, and that discretions.
These include: they continue to remain stretching and challenging.
The targets are linked to KPIs which are drawn from, and relate to, the selecting plan participants: achievement of milestones contained in the companys determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: strategic long-term plan.
This ensures they are aligned to the determining the quantum of awards and or payments strategic objectives of the company and designed to increase within the limits set out in the policy table above : shareholder value, whilst being prudent and safeguarding the determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment long-term future of the company.
of performance: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain For 2016, the committee has decided to maintain a condition circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, based on growth in adjusted EPS and introduce free cashflow corporate restructuring events, and special dividends : and revenue measures for the LTIP.
Adjusted EPS is considered determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes appropriate as it is easily understood, is a key measure of and applying the appropriate treatment: and financial performance and closely aligned to the company's undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance objectives of driving profitable growth.
The measure takes measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan account of fair value adjustments to financial instruments net and LTIP from year to year.
of tax as well as other non-recurring items such as unplanned investments in IT infrastructure, acquisitions and or disposals.
If an event occurs which results in the Annual Bonus Plan, As the targets are set as a rate of growth in excess of RPI it Deferred Share Bonus Plan or LTIP performance conditions and also takes into account inflation.
The free cash flow measure or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material is defined as cashflow generated from operations excluding acquisition or divestment, the committee will have the ability receivables and is seen as a key measure for N Brown to to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter monitor the flows of cash in and out of the business as well as weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets providing an assessment of underlying profitability.
Revenue are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
is a critical KPI for the business and management have clear line of sight over this measure and given that earnings measures Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be make up the majority of the plan, there is an appropriate explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, balance to encourage revenue growth whilst maintaining as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the margin.
The committee retains the discretion to change the company's major shareholders.
performance measures to reflect its strategy.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The committee considers the Groups performance on Executive directors' service agreements and environmental, social and governance ESG issues when termination policy setting the remuneration of any executive director and is of the It is the companys policy that executive directors should have opinion that the incentive arrangements for senior managers contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of do not raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible 12 months' notice.
behaviour or the taking of undue risks with the business.
The policy is that the company does not make payments Shareholding guidelines beyond its contractual obligations on termination.
In addition, It is the board's policy that executive directors build and retain a executive directors are expected to mitigate their loss or, minimum shareholding in the company.
Under these guidelines within existing contractual constraints, accept phased the chief executive and the finance director are respectively payments.
The committee seeks to ensure that there are required to hold company shares equal in value at the time of no unjustified payments for failure.
Neither of the executive acquisition to 200% and 100% of their base salary, respectively directors contracts provides for liquidated damages.
and to have met this guideline within 5 years of appointment.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the Details of the current shareholdings of the executive directors executive directors contracts that provide for longer are provided later in this report.
periods of notice on a change of control of the company.
Furthermore, there are no special provisions providing for How shareholders' views are taken into account additional compensation on an executive directors cessation The committee considers shareholder feedback received of employment with the company.
Where the director may regarding the directors remuneration report and guidance be entitled to pursue a legal claim, the company will be from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
entitled to negotiate settlement terms that the committee As appropriate, the committee also seeks feedback from considers to be in the best interests of the company and shareholders on specific matters.
These views are key inputs to enter into a settlement agreement to effect the terms when shaping remuneration policy.
agreed under the service contract and any additional statutory or other claims.
The committee may pay reasonable In developing the changes proposed to the Policy from outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
2016 onwards, the Committee has engaged with its major Potential termination payments are summarised on page 71. shareholders and representative bodies.
This process of engagement was still ongoing at the time this report was prepared.
Fixed pay salary as paid in year, benefits and pension provision.
O n target fixed pay plus target annual bonus 50% of the maximum of 75% of salary for the chief executive and 62.5% of salary for the finance director plus target LTIP awards of 37.5% of salary for the chief executive and 31.25% for the finance director.
M aximum fixed pay plus maximum annual bonus of 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for the finance director plus maximum LTIP awards of 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for the finance director.
S alary levels on which other elements of the packages are calculated are based on those effective from 1 October 2015 543,660 for the chief executive and 320,000 for the finance director.
T he value of taxable benefits is based on an estimated cost of 19,000 in respect of the chief executive and 17,000 for the financial director and includes a car allowance and health insurance.
Pension provision is 15% of salary for the chief executive and 10% for the finance director.
N Brown Group plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Fixed Pay Target Maximum Fixed Pay Target Maximum Fixed Pay Target Maximum Fixed Pay Target Maximum Governance Potential termination Recruitment of executive directors Name Date of contract payment Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the company's remuneration policy, taking account of the executive's skills, Angela Spindler 1 July 2013 12 months' salary and benefits experience and their current remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of Craig Lovelace 6 January 2015 12 months' salary above inflation increases to the desired salary positioning and benefits may be given over subsequent years subject to individual and company performance.
Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including, but not limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement or on Benefits and pension will generally be provided in accordance a change of control, no bonus would be payable unless the with the approved policy, with relocation expenses and or individual remains employed and is not under notice at the an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
For an overseas payment date.
Any bonuses paid to a good leaver would be appointment, the benefit and pension arrangements may be based on an assessment of their individual and the company's tailored to reflect local market practice subject to the overall performance over the period, and normally pro-rated for the maximum limits set out in the policy table.
Assistance with proportion of the bonus year worked.
relocation may be provided where appropriate.
Tax equalisation may also be considered as may payment of the executive's legal Deferred bonus share awards will also normally lapse on fees in connection with the appointment.
cessation of employment, unless the executive director is deemed to be a good leaver by the Committee.
Awards The variable pay opportunity will be in accordance with the will vest early on a change of control subject to the plan rules.
company's approved policy as detailed above.
However, different performance measures and targets may be set for With regards to long-term incentive awards, the LTIP rules the first year in the case of the annual bonus and long-term provide that other than in certain good leaver circumstances, incentives taking into account the responsibilities of the awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an individual individual, and the point in the financial year at which they is a good leaver, the committees policy for future LTIP awards joined.
A new employee may be granted normal annual PSP will be to permit awards to remain outstanding until the end awards in the first year of employment in addition to any awards of the original performance period, when a pro-rata reduction made with respect to prior employment being forfeited.
will be made to take account of the proportion of the vesting Such awards would normally be made shortly following an period that elapsed prior to termination of employment, appointment assuming the company is not in a close period.
although the committee has discretion to partly or completely disapply pro-rating in certain circumstances.
On a change of If it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay, which would be control awards would vest, subject to the extent to which the forfeited by reason of leaving the previous employer, in performance conditions have been achieved and, normally, order to secure the appointment, this would be provided pro-rating for time.
The committee has discretion to determine for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing good leaver treatment.
In doing so, it will take account and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing of the reason for their departure and the performance of performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited the individual.
and such other specific matters as it considers relevant.
Existing arrangements may be bought out on terms that are For awards granted under the LTISP, awards lapse if cessation no more favourable than the committee considers is required occurs during the financial year in which an award is granted.
to provide reasonable compensation to the incoming director Thereafter awards held by good leavers may vest subject to for the awards they will be losing.
Existing plans will be used to performance without pro-rating.
On a change of control the extent possible subject to the exceptional limits contained existing awards would not be pro-rated.
in the plan rules, however, the committee retains discretion to agree bespoke arrangements and, if required, to make use Apart from service contracts, no executive director has of the flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make awards any material interest in any contract with the company or without prior shareholder approval when buying out existing its subsidiaries.
The service contract for a new appointment would be in accordance with the policy for the current Copies of executive directors service contracts and also executive directors.
non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the companys registered office on application In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay to the company secretary.
awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
Fees for a new chairman or non-executive director will be set in line with the approved policy.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy for non-executive directors PURPOSE AND LINK PERFORMANCE ELEMENT TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM ASSESSMENT NonTakes account of All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement N A N A executive recognised practice and their remuneration is determined by the board within directors' and set at a level that the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on and is sufficient to attract independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors Chairman's and retain high-calibre of similar companies fees non-executives The chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
The Chairs of committee and senior independent director receive additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities Non-executive directors may not participate in any of the companys share incentive schemes or performance-based plans and are not eligible to join the companys pension scheme.
Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit and limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation, secretarial support and hospitality provided in relation to the performance of their duties When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market movements in non-executive director fees, board committee responsibilities, ongoing time commitments, the general economic environment and the level of increases awarded to the wider workforce In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be paid where there is a substantial increase in the time commitment required of non-executive directors If there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitment required of non-executive directors, the Board may pay additional fees on a pro-rata basis to recognise the additional workload Non-executive directors' letters of appointment Non-executive directors are retained on letters of appointment.
Other than the chairman and Lord Alliance, whose letters of appointment provide for six months notice in the event of early termination, all non-executive appointments are on three-year rolling terms terminable upon three months' notice.
All appointments are subject to successful re-election upon retirement at the annual general meeting.
Termination carries no right to compensation other than that provided by general law.
Brief details of non-executive directors contracts are summarised below: Date of contract Date current term Name letter of appointment commenced Notice period Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 16 May 2007 10 April 2016 6 months Ivan Fallon 1 October 1994 10 April 2016 3 months Andrew Higginson 3 July 2012 3 July 2016 6 months Fiona Laird 1 March 2013 1 April 2016 3 months Simon Patterson resigned 1 April 2016 13 March 2013 N A 3 months Ronald McMillan 1 March 2013 1 April 2016 3 months Lesley Jones 30 September 2014 1 October 2014 3 months N Brown Group plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, and 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 annual general meeting.
The information on pages 74 to 79 has been audited.
The remuneration committee and its advisers Members of the Remuneration Committee Name From To Fiona Laird 1 April 2013 To date Ron McMillan 1 April 2013 To date Simon Patterson 1 April 2013 1 April 2016 General Counsel and company secretary, Theresa Casey, acts as secretary to the committee and the chief executive, Angela Spindler, the chairman, Andrew Higginson, and the Group HR director, Caroline Massingham, may also attend meetings by invitation.
However, no director played any part in discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The committee members have no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business and are considered by the company to be independent.
The committee has formal written terms of reference which are available for shareholders to inspect and on the corporate website.
The committee met 3 times during the year.
See page 64 for details of attendance.
Advisers The committee received advice from New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc.
New Bridge Street was formally appointed by the committee.
In addition, KPMG LLP KPMG and Pinsent Masons LLP provided advice to the Group during the year which materially assisted the committee in relation to the closure to new accruals of the Groups defined benefit scheme.
Neither firm was specifically appointed by the committee.
KPMG who are also the Groups auditors were appointed to provide pension consultancy services in relation to the closure of the defined benefit scheme prior to their appointment as auditors.
KPMG and Pinsent Mason LLPs have no other connections with the Group other than as set out above.
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants' Group Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free from undue influence.
The Group received no other services from New Bridge Street or any other part of the Aon group of companies, during the year.
The committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers on an annual basis and it satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent.
The advisors' terms of engagement are available on request from the Company Secretary.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Application of the remuneration policy for 2016 17 Base salary The executive directors' salaries were reviewed in April 2016.
The salary increase takes effect from 1 October 2016 for the CEO and 1 May 2016 for the CFO and are set out below.
The salary increases are in line with most of the general workforce.
Salary as at Salary as at Name 1 October 2015 1 October 2016 Increase Angela Spindler 533,000 543,660 2% Salary as at 1 May 2016 Craig Lovelace 320,000 336,000 5% Fees for the chairman and non-executive directors As detailed in the remuneration policy, the Group aims to set remuneration for non-executive directors at a level which is sufficient to attract and retain non-executive directors of the right calibre.
Details of the fees are detailed below: Fees as at Fees as at 1 March 2015 1 March 2016 Increase Chairs fees 250,000 250,000 0% Other non-executive directors base fee 47,000 47,000 0% Senior independent non-executive director 5,000 5,000 0% Chair of a committees fees 5,000 8,000 5,000 8,000 0% Annual bonus plan performance targets The annual bonus plan for 2016 17 will be payable 60% in cash and 40% as an award of deferred shares.
Deferred bonus shares will vest, subject to continued service, three years after award.
For 2015 16, the performance measures and weightings will be as follows: As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Measure Angela Spindler Craig Lovelace Group profitability 70% 70% Corporate objectives 20% 20% Individual objectives 10% 10% The personal objectives of the executive directors for 2015 2016 were as follows: Angela Spindler Craig Lovelace Develop a Financial Services business we can be proud of Build a relationship of support and trust with the CEO Deliver Fit 4 the Future project to plan Ensure integrity of reporting internal and external numbers Build digital capability Focus on meeting city expectations Enhance reporting to provide more insightful financial information for commercial decision making Assess and address any gaps in finance function capability N Brown Group plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Long term incentive targets Awards granted to the executive directors under the LTIP in 2016 17 will be subject to three metrics, namely growth in adjusted EPS, free cashflow and revenue.
The performance targets are as follows: Free cashflow 30% of award is defined as cashflow Annual growth in adjusted generated from operations Percentage of each EPS in excess of RPI over excluding receivables.
Annual growth in total part of the award that 3 financial years Targets are cumulative over revenue over 3 financial will vest 50% of award 3 financial years years 20% of award Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2.5% Less than 370m Less than 5% CAGR Threshold 25% At least RPI 2.5% At least 370m At least 5% CAGR Maximum 100% At least RPI 9.0% At least 450m At least 9% CAGR For performance that is between the threshold and maximum levels awards vest on a straight-line basis.
Taxable benefits comprise private medical cover and car allowance.
Lord Alliance has waived his non-executive directors fee.
Dean Moore received 295,248 in respect of payment in lieu of contractual notice.
Craig Lovelace received 9,434 in respect of relocation expenses.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Total pension entitlements Audited Angela Spindler receives a cash supplement of 15% of salary in lieu of pension contributions.
Dean Moore was a member of the contributory defined contribution pension scheme scheme and received matching contributions from the company up to a maximum of 6% of salary.
In addition, he received an additional 6% of salary as a cash allowance.
Contributions paid by the company into the scheme during the year in respect of Dean Moore amounted to 19,555 2015, 21,745.
Craig Lovelace is a member of the contributory defined contribution pension scheme scheme.
He receives contributions from the company up to 10% salary with an amount up to his personal allowance being paid by the company into the scheme and the balance being paid as cash in lieu of pension contribution.
Contributions paid by the company into the scheme during the year in respect of Craig Lovelace amounted to 16,800 2015, N A.
Details of variable pay earned in the year Annual bonus Audited The table below gives details of executive directors bonuses for 2015 16: Weighting as a percentage of Performance maximum required bonus Threshold 0% Maximum Actual Payout % Director Measure opportunity payout 100% payout Performance of salary Angela Spindler Group Profit 70% 88m 94m 84.5m Nil Corporate Objectives 20% 43.1% 12.9% Personal objectives 10% 100% 15% Craig Lovelace Group Profit 70% 88m 94m 84.5m Nil Corporate objectives 20% 43.1% 10.8% Personal objectives 10% 79% 9.9% Notes: 1.
In assessing the performance achieved against the Group profit performance condition the remuneration committee did not consider that the Group profit achieved was supported by the underlying trading profit performance of the Group.
It therefore determined that the targets for the profit bonus element had not been met.
The precise targets set for the corporate objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive.
Long term share awards Audited Details of the performance conditions for the relevant awards are set out below: Grant Condition Performance Period Threshold target Stretch target Actual performance Vesting 2013 matching EPS 2 years to 28 100% vests if growth in EPS N A Growth in EPS below 0% DABs award February 2015 at least equal to growth in RPI growth in RPI 2012 LTISP award TSR 3 years to 28 25% vests at median 100% vests at 15th out of 20 0% February 2015 performance upper quartile N Brown Group plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Summary of awards granted in 2015 16 Audited The table below provide details of the long-term incentive awards granted to executive directors during the year.
Share Type of % of Face Number price at Executive award Condition salary value of shares grant Performance Period Threshold target Stretch target Angela LTIP 60% EPS 150% 799,500 238,087 335.8p EPS: 3yrs to end of EPS: 0% vests if EPS EPS: 100% vests if Spindler 40% TSR financial year 2017 18 growth compounded EPS growth TSR: 3yrs to June annually less than 2.5% compounded annually 2018 TSR: 25% vests at greater than 7.5% median performance TSR: 100% vests at upper quartile Craig LTIP 60% EPS 125% 400,000 119,117 335.8p EPS: 3yrs to end of EPS: 0% vests if EPS EPS: 100% vests if Lovelace 40% TSR financial year 2017 18 growth compounded EPS growth TSR: 3yrs to June annually less than 2.5% compounded annually 2018 TSR: 25% vests at greater than 7.5% median performance TSR: 100% vests at upper quartile Summary of awards Audited The table below summarises each of the executive directors' long-term share awards and the changes that have taken place in the year.
Vested and 28 February Awarded Lapsed during exercised 27 February Executive 2015 during the year the year during the year 2016 Date granted Type of award Angela Spindler 110,169 110,169 Aug 2013 Recruitment 220,338 220,338 Aug 2013 Recruitment 151,834 151,834 Aug 2013 LTISP 185,198 185,198 Aug 2014 LTIP 238,087 238,087 Aug 2015 LTIP Craig Lovelace 119,117 119,117 Aug 2015 LTIP Dean Moore 132,777 132,177 July 2012 LTISP 81,023 81,023 June 2013 LTISP 102,945 102,945 Aug 2014 LTIP 11,107 11,107 May 2013 Matching share award 2,963 2,963 May 2014 Matching share award The current deferred annual bonus scheme was introduced in 2010.
Under its terms, executive directors excluding Angela Spindler invest up to 25% of their base salary into shares and defer receipt for two years.
Matching shares could be earned subject to employment conditions and were subject to a financial performance condition requiring that growth in the company's EPS must at least equal the growth in RPI over the deferral period.
The matching element of the deferred annual bonus scheme will operate for the last time in respect of the finance directors bonus outcome for 2013 14.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors' shareholdings Audited It is the boards policy that executive directors build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the company.
Under these guidelines the chief executive officer and the finance director are expected to hold company shares equal in value at the time of acquisition to 200% and 100% of their base salary respectively and to have met this guideline within 5 years of appointment.
The beneficial interests of directors who served during the year, together with those of their families, in the shares of the company are as follows: Owned shares Number of shares Other interests in shares Value of shares counting Outstanding Outstanding towards awards awards not guideline subject to subject to Outstanding Total as at 28 February 27 February holding as a Guideline performance performance Share 27 February 2015 2016 % of salary met?
conditions conditions options 2016 Angela Spindler 100,438 61% N A 795,457 895,895 Craig Lovelace N A N A 119,117 119,117 Dean Moore 156,175 N A N A 186,931 186,931 Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 95,047,966 95,047,966 N A N A 95,047,966 Andrew Higginson 91,331 101,009 N A N A 101,009 Ivan Fallon 11,425 11,425 N A N A 11,425 Ron McMillan N A N A Fiona Laird N A N A Simon Patterson 10,000 10,000 N A N A 10,000 Lesley Jones N A N A The directors' share interests shown above include shares held by members of the director's family, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
There have been no changes to the directors ' interests in shares between 27 February and 30 April 2016.
Termination payments Audited Dean Moore stepped down as Finance Director on 30 April 2015.
After due consideration the committee determined that Dean Moore was a good leaver and the terms below in relation to good leaver will therefore apply.
Performance graph and table The graph shows the companys ten year performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index, also measured by TSR.
The company is a member of this index and accordingly it is felt to be the most appropriate comparator group for this purpose Analysis of chief executives pay over 6 years.
Analysis of Chief Executive's pay over 7 years Alan White Angela Spindler 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 Total remuneration '000 2,438 3,738 2,734 1,780 2,734 1,364 728 783 Annual bonus % of maximum 96.9% 90.6% 38.7% 71.4% 15.8% 83.2% 0% 27.9% Long term share vesting % of maximum 100% 100% 100% 100% 85% N A N A N A N Brown Group plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE: N BROWN VS FTSE 250 rebased to 100 500 400 300 200 100 N Brown Group plc FTSE mid-250 Index Feb 16 Feb 06 Feb 07 Feb 08 Feb 09 Feb 10 Feb 11 Feb 12 Feb 13 Feb 14 Feb 15 Percentage change in the chief executive's remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the chief executive's total remuneration excluding the value of any long term share awards and pension benefits receivable in the year between the 2014 15 and 2015 16 financial years, compared to that of the average for all employees of the Group.
% Change from 2014 15 to 2015 16 Salary Benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive 2.0% nil nil Average of other employees 2.0% nil nil Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the company's actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends.
2016 2015 % Change Staff costs 'm 71.3 74.2 3.9% Dividends 'm 40.2 40.0 0.5% The figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Shareholder voting on the directors' remuneration report at the 2015 annual general meeting Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast For 222,910,254 98.45% Against 3,478,226 1.54% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 226,388,480 99.9% 1 Votes withheld 21,182 0.01% Total votes cast including withheld votes 226,409,662 100% Notes: 1.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
Approval of the directors' remuneration report The directors' remuneration report was approved by the board on 2 June 2016.
Signed on behalf of the board Fiona Laird Chairman of the Remuneration Committee N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 79
