Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Statement from Vanda Murray, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee proposes the directors remuneration policy for shareholder approval.
It also governs the implementation of the policy ensuring that the remuneration Vanda Murray for our executive directors and senior Chairman of the management supports the sustainable Remuneration performance of the business and that it is Committee aligned with shareholders interests.
The Committee considers both market practice and stakeholders views when setting the Our remuneration policy is Groups performance-related incentives to ensure that they are based on challenging a key element in enabling and robust performance targets which are aligned to the Groups strategic goals and us to continue to drive our which drive profitable growth, while complying with UK corporate governance high performance culture good practice.
which focuses on building Performance and remuneration shareholder value.
for 2016 Michael Roney retired as Chief Executive in April 2016 after a long and successful tenure of more than 10 years, during This report has been prepared on In accordance with the Regulations, which time the Group achieved strong behalf of, and has been approved at the 2017 AGM we will be and sustainable performance.
It complies with the asking shareholders to vote on two successor as Chief Executive is Frank van Large and Medium-sized Companies separate remuneration resolutions Zanten, an internal appointment made and Groups Accounts and Reports as follows: after an extensive internal and external Amendment Regulations 2013 search process.
the Regulations, the UK Corporate the binding triennial vote on the Governance Code and the Financial directors remuneration policy The business strategy has remained constant Conduct Authority Listing Rules and which describes the Companys during 2016 with the Group continuing to grow takes into account the accompanying forward looking directors both organically and by acquisition while Directors Remuneration Reporting remuneration policy which will, continuously improving the quality of our Guidance and the relevant subject to shareholder approval, operating model.
policies of shareholder become formally effective as at The key performance metrics for the annual representative bodies.
the date of the 2017 AGM and is bonus are the Groups adjusted earnings per set out on pages 62 to 74 : and share and return on average operating The report is presented in an advisory vote on the annual capital and for Patrick Larmon there are three main sections: an annual report on remuneration as set two additional measures related to the statement from the Chairman out on pages 74 to 87 which operating profit and return on average of the Committee: the directors provides details of operating capital of the business area remuneration policy to be approved the remuneration earned for which he has responsibility North by shareholders at the 2017 by directors for performance America.
Performance against these Annual General Meeting AGM : in the year ended metrics has resulted in an annual bonus for and the annual report on 31 December 2016.
Frank van Zanten of 65% of the maximum remuneration for 2016. opportunity, which equates to 75% of his annual salary for 2016, initially as a director from 1 February until 19 April 2016 and then as Chief Executive from 20 April to the end of the financial year.
60 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 The annual bonuses for Brian May and FTSE 100 median and the proposed policy We will continue to set robust and Patrick Larmon are 77% and 66% of their maximum currently set at 115% of base challenging performance conditions for annual salaries respectively.
For the other executive directors, the LTIP awards.
These awards are subject remuneration policy, 50% of the annual the 2017 maximum annual bonus will be to earnings per share growth targets and, bonuses will be delivered in shares, subject limited to 125% of base salary, currently in addition, in the case of the performance to a three year deferral.
In addition, 100% of 115% for Brian May and 110% for Patrick shares, a relative total shareholder return the executive share options and 82% of the Larmon also significantly below the relevant condition.
We propose to use the capacity performance shares vested under the FTSE 100 market median.
The on-target in the LTIP policy conservatively, with the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan bonus for the Chief Executive for 2017 will award levels for 2017 held at 2016 levels.
LTIP for the performance periods that be 75% of base salary, currently 70%, and For LTIP awards made after the 2017 AGM ended in 2016.
70% for the other executive directors, which and subsequently, a post-vesting holding is unchanged.
The threshold and target period will be introduced for executive bonus as a percentage of the maximum directors.
This holding period will continue Review of remuneration policy and will reduce as these will remain fixed as if they leave employment during the holding shareholder consultation a percentage of salary.
The remuneration policy will also As we approach our 2017 AGM and the increase the Chief Executives shareholding triennial binding vote on our directors Annual bonus awards will continue to be requirement to 250% of base salary in remuneration policy, we have undertaken a based on growth in adjusted earnings per line with the FTSE 100 median.
Excluding thorough review of the policy and have share and return on average operating the value of his transitional international consulted on the proposed changes with our capital.
These metrics remain key to the relocation package, following these largest shareholders and with proxy voting business strategy and the target levels are proposed changes the 2017 total onadvisers.
The existing policy was strongly stretching without encouraging target remuneration for Frank van Zanten supported by shareholders when voted on in inappropriate levels of risk.
Threshold, will remain below that of the previous 2014 and the key elements of that policy target and stretch performance levels will Chief Executive.
remain at the core of our proposed be disclosed in the remuneration report for remuneration policy.
Conclusions As a result of these policy changes there Despite the absolute maximum levels of Over recent years, the Group has grown and will be a greater emphasis on performance LTIP awards permitted under the policy expanded internationally through a series of related remuneration for all of the executive falling below the FTSE 100 median, we acquisitions, extending our geographic directors.
I very much hope that you will are not proposing to increase these.
Our support the remuneration resolutions at We are proposing to set the normal award remuneration framework is a crucial the AGM.
This balanced and prudent set limits for the performance share element element in enabling us to compete for key of proposals is intended to ensure that of the LTIP at 150% of base salary and leave talent internationally and in continuing to we continue to drive and reward the limits for share option awards under drive our high performance culture which performance and maintain alignment the LTIP unchanged.
The resulting LTIP focuses on building shareholder value.
award limits are materially lower than the FTSE 100 median.
The current remuneration policy has not Vanda Murray OBE been changed in the last three years and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the annual bonus opportunity has remained 27 February 2017 unchanged for eight years.
In light of the Groups expansion and its development over many years, the Committee has Directors remuneration policy reviewed whether the current remuneration summary of proposed changes at a glance arrangements remain appropriate.
Having Recognising the feedback received from Notice periods for new executive director completed this review, we are proposing shareholders in 2016, going forward the service contracts equalised to 12 months some amendments to the policy to bring Committee will apply time proration to from both the Company and employee it in line with current best practice and to performance shares in the event that an previously six months from employee drive performance for the Companys next executive director retires.
Increased Chief Executives Malus and clawback provisions shareholding requirement to 250% of strengthened for both the annual Remuneration arrangements for base salary currently 200%.
bonus, including the cash element, and the 2017 financial year and beyond Introduction of a two year post-vesting the LTIP.
holding requirement on LTIP awards The existing variable pay structure Executive directors base salaries have from the 2017 AGM onwards.
maintained but with an increased focus been increased by 2%, effective 1 January The annual bonus maximum level set on above target performance.
2017, below that of the workforce average of at 180% of base salary with the 2017 2.8%.
Frank van Zantens base salary was The absolute maximum LTIP awards maximum capped at 150% of base set at 800,000 on his appointment as Chief permitted under the current policy are salary for Frank van Zanten currently Executive compared to 922,000 for his not increasing, despite being below the 115% and 125% for other executive predecessor.
Similarly, his pension market median, and actual LTIP award directors currently 115% and 110% contribution of 25% of base salary is lower levels for 2017 will remain at the same of base salary for Brian May and than the 30% paid to Michael Roney.
level as 2016, significantly below the Patrick Larmon.
Annual bonus performance The proposed directors remuneration targets disclosures enhanced.
policy sets the annual bonus maximum level The total remuneration for Frank Pension contributions or cash at the FTSE 100 market median of 180% of van Zanten with these changes will allowances for new executive director base salary.
However, for the 2017 financial remain below that of his predecessor appointments capped at 25% of base year, the Chief Executives maximum annual excluding the value of the transitional salary currently 30%.
bonus opportunity will be set at 150% of relocation package.
base salary, 30 percentage points below the 61 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued In setting the remuneration policy for the Overview Directors executive directors, the Committee also Our directors remuneration policy has been remuneration policy takes into consideration a number of reviewed during the year and is submitted different factors: We continue to pursue our well defined for approval in the required triennial vote at strategy of developing the business through the 2017 AGM.
The overall approach to the Committee applies the principles set profitable organic growth, consolidating our remuneration adopted by the Company has out in the UK Corporate Governance Code position in the markets in which we compete been in place for many years and the key and also takes into account best practice through focused acquisitions in both elements of this policy are very little guidance issued by the major UK existing and new geographies and changed from those approved by institutional investor bodies, the Financial continuously improving our operating shareholders in 2014.
Conduct Authority including the model.
Bunzls business model relies on provisions of any applicable remuneration excellent customer and supplier Our current directors remuneration policy, codes and other relevant organisations: relationships and the skills, knowledge and which is effective subject to our new policy the Committee has overall responsibility experience of its directors and employees.
being approved by shareholders at our 2017 for the remuneration policies and The Companys remuneration policy AGM, is set out in our 2014 and 2015 Annual structures for employees of the Group as supports this strategy by ensuring that the Reports and is also available on our website a whole and it reviews remuneration overall remuneration package is set at at www.
policy on a Group wide basis.
When the a competitive level while ensuring that Committee determines and reviews the additional reward is paid for high The proposed policy set out below is remuneration policy for the executive performance over a sustained period.
submitted to be approved by shareholders directors it considers and compares it This policy is designed to ensure the at our 2017 AGM and will formally take effect against the pay, policy and employment recruitment, retention and motivation from the date of the AGM with the exception conditions of the rest of the Group to of the executive directors and other senior of the annual bonus where the policy will ensure that there is alignment between executives over the long term.
apply for the full financial year in 2017. the two: and the Committee considers the external The performance-related elements of the The proposed policy is designed to meet the market in which the Group operates and remuneration package are designed to following objectives: uses comparator remuneration data from incentivise executives to meet key time to time to inform its decisions.
performance metrics which align their to support the next phase of the Groups However, the Committee recognises that interests and remuneration with those of growth and development: such data should be used as a guide only shareholders, for example targets relating to bring the policy in line with current best recognising that data can be volatile and to earnings per share and total shareholder practice principles: may not be directly relevant and that return TSR.
In setting such targets the to provide flexibility to take better account there is often a need to phase-in changes Committee takes due account of the of market remuneration levels: over a period of time.
potential effect such targets could have on to ensure remuneration reflects the the attitude and behaviour of executives to performance of the Group in the relevant risk within the business.
In addition the year and the longer term: and Committee has the discretion to take into to align pay with the strategic objectives account performance on environmental, of the Company and the interests of our social and governance matters.
62 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 The Committees overall policy, having had due regard to the factors above, continues to be for a substantial proportion of total remuneration to be based on variable pay.
This is achieved by setting base pay and benefits up to mid-market levels, with annual bonus and long term incentive opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets which will be disclosed.
In this way the Committee facilitates alignment between the interests of shareholders and the total remuneration paid to the executive directors.
The table below summarises how the proposed policy compares with the current policy: Summary of key features of current policy Summary of key features of proposed policy Defined contribution to pension or cash allowance Pension contributions or cash allowance for new joiners Pension of equivalent value.
Only base salary is pensionable.
will be capped at 25% of base salary.
Maximum of 30% of base salary.
Maximum 115% of base salary for Chief Executive Policy maximum of 180% of base salary.
Annual bonus and Finance Director and 110% for Patrick Larmon.
opportunity For 2017, maximum of 150% of base salary for Chief Executive and 125% of base salary for Finance Director and Patrick Larmon.
Target bonus 70% of base salary 61% of maximum Target bonus 75% of base salary reduces to 50% of 2017 for Chief Executive and Finance Director and 64% of maximum for the Chief Executive and remains at 70% of maximum for Patrick Larmon.
base salary for the Finance Director and Patrick Larmon which is 56% of maximum.
Clawback provisions apply for misstatement for Clawback to be strengthened and a malus provision deferred bonus.
to be added for both the cash bonus and the deferred shares element.
The policy states that the normal award limits will be up The normal award limits can be up to 200% of base Long Term to 200% of base salary share options and 112.5% of base salary share options and 150% of base salary Incentive Plan salary performance shares.
LTIP However, award levels in 2017 will be no higher than in 2016.
Two year post-vesting holding period net of sales to settle tax to apply to awards made of share options and performance shares after the 2017 AGM and subsequently.
Time proration of performance shares on retirement.
Clawback provisions apply for misstatement and error.
Clawback to be strengthened and a malus provision to be added.
Shareholding Executive directors are required to build up a To be increased to 250% for the Chief Executive and shareholding of 200% of base salary.
remain at 200% for the other executive directors.
requirement Executive directors are normally employed on contracts Contracts for new executive directors will provide for an Service that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and equal notice period from the Company and the executive Contracts six months notice from the executive.
of a maximum of 12 months notice.
63 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Engagement with shareholders Remuneration policy for executive directors The Committee engages with, and seeks the views of, its major investors and investor The following table summarises each representative bodies on any significant element of the proposed remuneration changes to the Companys remuneration policy for the executive directors, explaining policy.
The Committee also engages from how each element operates and links to the time to time with shareholders when corporate strategy.
The policy will be considering important questions about the formally effective following shareholder implementation of the policy.
Views approval at the 2017 AGM with the annual expressed by shareholders are considered bonus policy applying for the full financial by the Committee as part of any review of year.
If approved, this policy supersedes remuneration policy or sooner if that approved by shareholders in 2014. appropriate.
Salary recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role Purpose reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year Operation reviewed annually, normally in December with any changes usually effective from January taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large international presence pensionable salary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group Maximum and performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility or major potential value market movement.
The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2016 and 2017 are on pages 75 and 83 respectively while there are no performance conditions attached to the payment of base salary, individual performance in Performance the role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to environmental, social and metrics governance issues, are all taken into consideration Annual bonus incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets Purpose retain high performing employees align with shareholders interests annual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year Operation at the end of the performance period, which is the Groups financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved.
The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measures performance targets, on a pro rata basis any bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares with the shares normally deferred for three years under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS malus and clawback provisions apply under DASBS to allow the recoupment of bonus for three years from the end of the relevant performance year in the event of material misstatement of performance, a significant failure of risk control or serious misconduct.
Malus and clawback also apply to the cash element of the bonus award non-pensionable 64 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Annual bonus continued the annual bonus policy maximum is 180% of base salary Maximum the annual target bonus opportunity is capped at 50% of the maximum, where the maximum exceeds 140% potential value of base salary for the 2017 performance year for Frank van Zanten the maximum annual bonus will be limited to 150% of base salary with the on-target award at 50% of the maximum, equating to an on-target bonus of 75% of base salary for the 2017 performance year for Brian May and Patrick Larmon the maximum annual bonus will be limited to 125% of base salary with the on-target bonus remaining at the current 70% of base salary the current threshold levels of bonus for Frank van Zanten and Brian May are 49% of base salary and 31% of base salary for Patrick Larmon.
As the maximum bonus percentage increases, these threshold levels will remain fixed as a percentage of base salary and thereby reduce as a percentage of the maximum any further increase during the policy period, within the policy maximum, will be subject to Company performance Performance metrics will be set each year by the Committee aligned to the Companys key strategic objectives metrics For the 2017 performance year, the principal metrics are as follows: growth at constant exchange rates in the Companys earnings per share adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance eps against the relevant target the bonus derived from constant exchange rate eps performance will be increased or decreased according to the Companys performance against the target return on average operating capital RAOC, referred to as the RAOC modifier the use of eps and RAOC measures are seen as appropriate as they are two of the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The use of eps growth aligns the executive directors interests with those of the shareholders and the RAOC modifier ensures the continued focus on the management of capital employed together with profit growth bonus awards are at the Committees discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters as appropriate Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest, tax, customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs PBITA and RAOC of the business area for which he has direct responsibility North America and both are measured on a constant exchange rate basis.
The additional measures relating to PBITA and RAOC are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise the management team in North America the performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee retains the discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate the current relevant performance metrics are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus is capped.
These performance metrics are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonus are guaranteed.
As in previous years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive Long term incentives Purpose incentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR align with shareholders interests recruit and retain senior employees discretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest Operation subject to performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service a malus and clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by a reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment, for a period of three years from the relevant performance year, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of performance or there has been a significant failure of risk control or serious misconduct two year post-vesting holding requirement for shares that vest, net of sales to settle tax or other withholding due on vesting or exercise of awards all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules 65 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Long term incentives continued Maximum Executive share options potential value maximum annual award of 250% of base salary normal annual grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of base salary and the Committee would not normally grant above 200% of salary to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance shares maximum annual award of 150% of base salary normal annual grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 150% of base salary for the 2017 grants, awards will not exceed 112.5% of base salary Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period Performance metrics Executive share options eps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below the threshold target 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set for the previously approved 2004 LTIP which expired in 2014 are shown on page 66 of the 2014 Annual Report.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 79.
Performance shares TSR performance measure 50% of the total award compares a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors the other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance TSR or the maximum target eps for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set for the previously approved 2004 LTIP which expired in 2014 are shown on page 66 of the 2014 Annual Report.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 80.
66 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 All employee share plans encourage employees, including the executive directors, to build a shareholding through the operation of all Purpose employee share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC tax advantaged Sharesave Scheme and the Internal Revenue Service IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan US ESPP in the US the Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter into a savings Operation contract, over a period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted the ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a Maximum period of either three or five years currently 500 per month potential value in the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits currently up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower service conditions apply Performance metrics Retirement benefits provision of competitive retirement benefits Purpose retain executive directors all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new Operation recruits being offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and or a pension allowance legacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as disclosed previously pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly company pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances Maximum are capped at 25% of base salary for new executive directors and 30% of base salary under potential value legacy arrangements benefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% on salary up to the notional pensionable salary cap from 6 April 2017 154,200 per annum Performance Not applicable metrics Other benefits provision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors Purpose benefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, Operation disability and medical and, in some jurisdictions, club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time some benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of an international relocation might also include fees for accommodation, childrens schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and professional advice etc Maximum potential the value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances.
For example, the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in value which the family is based Not applicable Performance metrics 67 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Shareholding requirement strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders Purpose executives will normally be expected to retain shares, net of sales to settle tax, through the exercise of Operation awards under the DASBS and the LTIP until they attain the required holding.
Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve the required shareholding.
It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding The Chief Executives shareholding requirement is 250% of base salary.
The requirement for other executive Maximum potential directors is 200% of base salary.
This does not include any holdings of deferred shares or vested but value unexercised share options or performance shares Performance Not applicable metrics Note A description of how the Company will operate the policy in 2017 is detailed within the remuneration policy summary as set out on pages 64 to 68.
Performance measures and targets The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are eps modified by RAOC for the annual bonus and eps and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP.
The Committee considers that all of these measures are appropriate for incentive purposes.
Eps is one of the Companys KPIs.
The use of eps aligns the executive directors interests with those of shareholders.
In addition, one of the executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus determined by additional measures relating to PBITA and RAOC which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business area he is responsible for managing.
RAOC is another of the Companys KPIs.
The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on management of capital employed and profit growth by rewarding efficient profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital employed at the end of the period.
Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
This combination of performance measures provides an important balance relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders.
The Committee does not feel that the introduction of non-financial measures for the executive directors is appropriate at this time.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Companys annual budgeting process, the economic environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations.
Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors and employees in general The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance related pay such as bonus and long term incentives.
Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive pay, is greater for the executive directors.
This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited responsibility.
As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees currently 29 people are granted both executive share option and performance share awards.
Approximately 414 senior managers are granted executive share option awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for management in the Companys decentralised organisation structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates.
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role.
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost-effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership, an all employee share plan may be offered.
Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, US and UK.
In France employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations.
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based and the function and seniority of the relevant role.
68 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within the Group.
In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share option and performance share awards.
In 2017 the majority of employees across the Group have received salary increases in the range of 2.2%3.4%, dependent on geographical location with the principal exception being those employees based in Brazil, Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary increases are much higher.
The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individuals contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase within the geographical regions for the broader employee population when determining the annual salary increases for the executive directors and is cognisant of the Groups overall employment arrangements when reviewing and implementing the executive directors remuneration policy.
Although the Committee did not consult with employees with regard to the remuneration policy of the executive directors, the Company does monitor employees views through a regular employee survey.
Recruitment of executive directors approach to remuneration For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion.
The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individuals current remuneration package and location.
In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
To ensure consistency across the Board, any variable pay awards for new executive director appointments will not exceed the maximum limits set out in the policy table above.
However, in addition, for an external appointment the Committee may consider offering additional cash and or share based elements to replace deferred awards forfeited by the individual on leaving their existing employment when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Such elements, as appropriate, would be made under Section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules and would take account of the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the awards forfeited.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment.
Executive directors service contracts Frank van Zantens service contract provides for an equal notice period from the Company and the executive of a maximum 12 months notice and any contracts for newly appointed executive directors will provide for equal notice in the future.
The other executive directors are employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of his contract.
Patrick Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract Frank van Zanten 13 January 2016 Brian May 9 December 2005 Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 69 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Policy on payment for departure from office On termination of an executive directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders: Component Voluntary resignation Death, ill health, disability excluding redundancy Departure on of pay or termination for agreed terms cause Paid for the proportion of Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken Base salary, the notice period worked holidays pro-rated to such date.
In the case of ill health, pension and and any untaken holidays a payment in lieu of notice may be made and, according to benefits pro-rated to the leaving date the circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period Annual bonus Cessation of employment Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the during a bonus year will year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date will cash Treatment will normally result in no cash result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and pro-rated normally fall bonus being paid for the relevant portion of the financial year worked and between the two performance achieved treatments described in the Unvested deferred shares In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred shares Annual bonus previous columns, will lapse will be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after deferred shares subject to the death.
In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the discretion of the Committee, unvested deferred shares will be transferred Committee and to the individual on a date determined by the Committee the terms of any termination Unvested executive share Tax advantaged options will vest in full on the cessation of Executive share agreement.
options will lapse employment and be exercisable for the following 12 months options However in the after which any unexercised options will lapse case of retirement of an executive Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested non-tax director unvested advantaged share options will normally be retained by the performance individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain shares will subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in normally be the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will subject to time determine the extent to which the unvested options may be proration exercised within 12 months of the date of death based on the proportion of Performance Unvested performance Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested the performance shares will lapse performance shares will normally be retained by the shares period that individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain has expired subject to the relevant performance conditions but may be subject to time proration.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent to which the unvested performance shares may be exercised within 12 months of the date of death As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations Options under Sharesave None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees Other Notes a F or share options granted under Part A of the 2004 LTIP, any unvested executive share options which are subject to the discretion of the Committee may vest in full on the termination date and be exercisable for the following 12 months after which any unexercised options will lapse.
b The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e. g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
70 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Discretions retained by the Committee in operating the incentive plans The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans: determining the timing of grants and or payments: determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans: determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : and under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
71 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued 2017 Remuneration overview The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits and performance based variable elements cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP.
The Committee has set a guideline that for on-target performance approximately half of the remuneration package should be performance related.
The structure of the remuneration packages for on-target and stretch performance for each of the executive directors for 2017, in line with the new remuneration policy, is illustrated in the bar charts below.
Frank van Zanten 86% 14% Below threshold performance Total 1,431,321 45% 7% 22% 26% Target performance Total 2,747,121 30% 5% 30% 35% Stretch performance Total 4,062,921 Brian May 75% 25% Below threshold performance Total 739,991 36% 12% 24% 28% Target performance Total 1,556,297 24% 8% 30% 38% Stretch performance Total 2,291,513 Patrick Larmon 98% 2% Below threshold performance Total 919,972 40% 1% 27% 32% Target performance Total 2,236,595 26% 1% 32% 41% Stretch performance Total 3,422,427 Salary and benefits Pension Bonus Cash DASBS LTIP Notes a S alary represents annual salary for 2017.
Benefits such as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance have been included based on 2016 figures.
In the case of Frank van Zanten, benefits also include the transitional international relocation package including accommodation, which are gross amounts before taxes, referred to on page 75.
Patrick Larmons salary is paid in US dollars and has been translated at the 2016 year end closing exchange rate of 1: US$1.24.
b P ension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2016 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance for Frank van Zanten and Brian May and the total of the Companys contributions to Patrick Larmons 401K Plan and Retirement Savings Benefit the RSB.
No further contributions were made through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA, further details of which are shown on page 79. c Below threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d T arget performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level i. e. for 2017 an on-target bonus of 75% of base salary for Frank van Zanten and 70% of base salary for Brian May and Patrick Larmon comprised of half cash and half deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e S tretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level i. e for 2017, the maximum annual bonus will be limited to 150% of base salary for Frank van Zanten and 125% of base salary for Brian May and Patrick Larmon comprised of half cash and half deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest delivering 100% of their face value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest which will deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
Legacy arrangements The directors remuneration policy first approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM gave authority to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports or internally promoted future directors in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the remuneration report as they arise.
72 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Policy of executive directors external appointments With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Non-executive directors terms of appointment On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of last Length of Date of re-appointment service as at appointment at AGM 2017 AGM Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 20 April 2016 7 years 3 months David Sleath 1 September 2007 20 April 2016 9 years 7 months Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 20 April 2016 6 years Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 20 April 2016 4 years 3 months Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 20 April 2016 n a Vanda Murray 1 February 2015 20 April 2016 2 years 2 months Lloyd Pitchford 1 March 2017 n a 1 month David Sleath will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM to be held on 19 April 2017 and Lloyd Pitchford will be appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 1 March 2017 and will assume the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee upon David Sleaths retirement.
At the same time Vanda Murray will assume the role of Senior Independent Director.
Meinie Oldersma retired from the Board on 22 August 2016.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid directors fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees policy for Chairman and non-executive directors the NEDs Purpose provision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the implementation of the Companys strategy determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities Operation associated with the roles annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to reflect their additional responsibilities the NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans.
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed the NEDs fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairmans fee is reviewed biennially, the last date being February 2016 the Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration: the Chairmans fees are set by the Committee determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with Maximum potential reference to the Companys Articles of Association value not eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration Performance metrics Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to its policy.
The Committee has consulted with major shareholders and proxy voting groups with regard to the proposed changes to the remuneration policy to be submitted for approval at the 2017 AGM.
73 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration for 2016 Committee remit and membership The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2016: Date of appointment Meetings eligible Meetings to the Committee to attend attendance David Sleath 5 December 2007 4 4 Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 4 4 Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 4 3 Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 2 2 Vanda Murray 1 February 2015 4 4 Meinie Oldersma retired from the Board on 22 August 2016.
The Secretary to the Committee is Julie Welch, Director of Group Human Resources.
No director plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section of the Companys website, www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group: determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Companys long term incentive plans: ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Companys strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking: and communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Companys stakeholders as and when appropriate.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary.
During the year the Committee received advice from PwC and Aon Hewitt.
PwC provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels.
Aon Hewitt provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to existing share option and performance share awards under the LTIP had been satisfied and in addition advised the Committee on the changes to the remuneration policy.
The fees payable to each adviser, based on hourly rates, were: 12,700 PwC and 34,170 Aon Hewitt respectively for such work undertaken in 2016.
In addition to the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, PwC, who are the Companys external auditors, also provided a limited amount of non-audit services to the Company as set out in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Looking forward, any other non-audit services required by the Company will, in the main, be provided by other firms to ensure the independence of PwCs work as auditors.
Statement of voting at the 2016 AGM for the remuneration report and at the 2014 AGM for the remuneration policy The remuneration report and remuneration policy received the following shareholder votes in 2016 and in 2014 respectively, being the years that they were last voted on by shareholders: Votes Votes % of shares Votes % of shares Votes cast For voted Against voted Withheld Remuneration report 2016 AGM 273,654,330 201,947,243 73.80 71,707,087 26.20 296,109 Remuneration policy 2014 AGM 264,349,297 258,510,901 97.79 5,838,396 2.21 600,455 Notes a The votes For include votes given at the Company Chairmans discretion.
b A vote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of the votes cast.
c Following the voting outcome at the 2016 AGM, the Committee has considered the views of shareholders that were raised in relation to the remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2015 and addressed the question of treatment of long term incentive awards for executive directors who retire in its policy review and consultation with shareholders this year.
The new remuneration policy introduces time proration of performance shares on retirement.
c The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including the bonus of which the cash element, 50% of the bonus, is paid in the year following that in which it is earned.
The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of the DASBS.
Shares relating to the 2015 deferred bonus were awarded in 2016 as shown in the table on page 84 and the shares relating to the 2016 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2017. d Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families.
In addition to these, Frank van Zantens benefits include a transitional international relocation package from Amsterdam to London following his appointment as Chief Executive in April 2016 which are grossed up for taxes.
This includes assistance with accommodation, removal costs and school fees.
In addition Patrick Larmons club fees are paid by the Company.
e The long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in April and October 2013 and February 2014 and under the 2014 LTIP granted in August 2014.
Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon through the ESPP described on page 67. f The figures shown in relation to 2015 for the LTIP have been restated from those figures shown in the 2015 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the relevant grant price and the value of the LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting on 28 February 2016 and 30 August 2016 at the closing mid-market share price of 1,935p and 2,413p respectively.
g The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1.36 in respect of 2016 and 1: US$1.53 in respect of 2015. h The value of the LTIP award for Frank van Zanten for 2016 relates to vesting of awards that were granted prior to becoming Chief Executive.
i 977,005 of the LTIP amount shown in 2016 for Michael Roney relates to exercises of LTIP awards which vested during 2016 after the termination of his employment as an executive director.
j As Meinie Oldersma resigned from the Board on 22 August 2016, the 2016 fees of 43,800 have been paid until this date.
No payments were or are to be made to former directors in respect of loss of office and no payments were made to former directors during the year other than as expressed in Note a and i above.
In addition to the remuneration paid to directors in 2015 shown above, Peter Johnson, who retired as a non-executive director during the year, received remuneration of 28,400 in respect of the period 1 January 2015 to 15 April 2015, the date of his retirement.
Executive directors annual salary audited information Executive directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary Salary Increase from from in salary 1 January 1 January 2015 to 2016 2015 2016 Michael Roney 922,000 922,000 0% Frank van Zanten 800,000 Brian May 530,000 515,000 2.9% Patrick Larmon US$1,060,000 US$1,036,000 2.3% Notes a Michael Roneys base salary was 922,000 and was paid until his termination date of 30 April 2016. b Frank van Zantens base salary was 800,000 from 20 April 2016 upon his appointment as Chief Executive.
Executive directors salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2017 and the increases awarded are shown on page 83.
75 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors external appointments Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Brown-Forman Corporation throughout 2016 and from 1 January 2016 until the termination of his employment with the Company on 30 April 2016 retained fees of US$73,216.
Frank van Zanten served as a non-executive director of Grafton Group plc throughout 2016 and during the year retained fees of 70,000.
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC throughout 2016 and during the year retained fees of 78,066.
Patrick Larmon served as a non-executive director of Bodycote plc from 13 September 2016 and during the remainder of the year retained fees of 16,039.
In addition, he has also served as a non-executive director of Huttig Building Products, Inc. throughout 2016 and retained fees of US$109,664 which included US$57,644 worth of deferred shares which vested in 2016.
Non-executive directors fees audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years with the most recent review having taken place with effect from 1 January 2016.
The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016 in accordance with normal policy.
With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees January 2016 in 2015 2015 to 2016 Chairmans fee 340,000 325,000 4.6% Non-executive director fee 67,500 66,000 2.3% Supplements: Senior Independent Director 16,000 16,000 0% Audit Committee Chairman 16,000 15,000 6.7% Remuneration Committee Chairman 16,000 15,000 6.7% The non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2017 and the increases awarded are shown on page 83.
Performance against annual bonus targets audited information The annual bonus plan and DASBS currently operate as set out in the policy section on pages 61 and 62 of the 2015 Annual Report.
For Frank van Zanten, the bonus opportunity for 2016 was split between performance in terms of PBITA and RAOC based on the Continental Europe CE business area from 1 February 2016 to 19 April 2016 and the performance of the Group from 20 April 2016 on his appointment to Chief Executive.
His bonus opportunity as Chief Executive was based on growth in the Companys constant exchange rate eps relative to budget which was modified by the achievement of the Groups RAOC relative to budget.
All of Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus potential in 2016 related to growth in the Companys constant exchange rate eps relative to budget which was modified by the achievement of the Groups RAOC relative to budget.
For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus potential related to the PBITA performance of North America NA which was modified by the achievement of NAs RAOC relative to the target set and measured on a constant exchange rate basis.
The results for 2016 against the targets set were as follows: Performance against targets Primary Modifier On-target % actual constant 2016 bonus as % RAOC for the 2016 bonus bonus opportunity Threshold Target Stretch exchange rate eps of salary before Group relative award as % Group performance as % salary eps eps eps relative to target modifier applied to target 55.5% of salary Frank van Zanten 70% 89.7p 94.2p 103.6p 101.1% of target 74.8% 1.023 76.6% performance Brian May 70% 89.7p 94.2p 103.6p 101.1% of target 74.8% 1.023 76.6% performance Patrick Larmon 17.5% 89.7p 94.2p 103.6p 101.1% of target 19.1% 1.023 19.5% performance On-target % PBITA of Bonus as % % RAOC for the CE bonus opportunity Target CE CE businesses of salary before CE businesses performance as % of salary PBITA relative to target modifier applied relative to target Frank van Zanten 60% 150.6m 102.6% 66.5% 1.005 66.8% Target NA % PBITA of % RAOC for the PBITA constant NA businesses Bonus as % NA businesses NA exchange rate relative of salary before relative performance US$ to target modifier applied to budget 98.9% of target Patrick Larmon 52.5% US$398.3m performance 44.7% 1.034 46.2% Notes a F or the Group performance table above the annual on-target bonus opportunity for Frank van Zanten and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 49% of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 31% of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary.
76 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Threshold performance was 95% of target and the maximum bonus award would have been paid out at 110% of the target for Group performance and 107.5% of target for NA performance.
b The bonuses derived from the primary measures shown above are increased, decreased or remain unchanged according to the actual performance against the relevant RAOC modifier.
The modifier is unlikely to change the bonus determined by the primary measure by more than 5% up or down.
c Frank van Zantens bonus award is shown for both Group and CE performance.
d In accordance with his departure terms, no bonus payment was made to Michael Roney for the 2016 financial year see page 82. e At target exchange rates the adjusted eps for 2016 was 95.2p.
Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plans were: Total bonus payment cash and deferred shares as a % of salary 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 % % % % % Michael Roney 73.8 98.0 104.2 77.0 Frank van Zanten 75.3 Brian May 76.6 73.8 98.0 104.2 77.0 Patrick Larmon 65.7 54.5 69.7 85.3 85.9 The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2016 and 2015 are included in the table on page 75.
LTIP grants awards with performance periods ending in 2016 audited information Executive share option awards LTIP Part A Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 27 February 2017 and 29 August 2017.
The Committee assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions: LTIP Part A 27 February 2014 awards RPI growth Target growth Performance Vesting Dec 2013 3% p. a. above Actual eps % vesting measure schedule to Dec 2016 RPI growth growth max 100% Eps growth relative 100% vesting to RPI over three for target 5.4% 14.7% 28.8% 100% year period to performance 31 December 2016 LTIP Part A 29 August 2014 awards Performance Vesting Threshold target Maximum target Actual eps % vesting measure schedule 5% p. a.
8% p. a. growth max 100% Eps growth 25% vesting for target over three year performance, 100% 15.8% 26.0% 28.8% 100% period to vesting for maximum 31 December 2016 performance Date of Number of Vesting Estimated value of grant shares granted outcome award vesting Michael Roney 27 February 2014 43,000 100% 245,100 29 August 2014 54,600 100% 270,270 Frank van Zanten 27 February 2014 16,200 100% 92,340 29 August 2014 18,800 100% 93,060 Brian May 27 February 2014 22,500 100% 128,250 29 August 2014 29,000 100% 143,550 Patrick Larmon 27 February 2014 25,500 100% 145,350 29 August 2014 35,500 100% 175,725 Note Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 75 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the exercise price and the average of the Companys closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2016 2,136p.
77 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Performance shares LTIP Part B Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 5 April 2013 and 7 October 2013 with the three year TSR performance periods being completed during the financial year on 31 March 2016 and 30 September 2016 respectively.
The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance conditions: LTIP Part B 5 April 2013 and 7 October 2013 awards RPI growth Threshold target Maximum target Performance Vesting Dec 2012 4% p. a. above 10% p. a. above Actual eps % vesting measure schedule to Dec 2015 RPI growth RPI growth growth max 50% 25% vesting Eps growth for threshold relative to RPI over performance, 5.6% 18.1% 38.7% 28.9% 32.2% three year period to 100% vesting 31 December 2015 for maximum performance Performance Performance Vesting Threshold target Maximum target % vesting measure Period schedule median upper quartile Actual TSR max 50% 25% vesting 1 April 2013 to 12.3% 53.075% 61.7% 50.0% TSR relative to for threshold 31 March 2016 22nd out of 43 11th out of 43 5th out of 43 performance, comparator group of bespoke 100% vesting 1 October 2013 to 15.9% 48.8% 81.0% 50.0% for maximum peer companies 30 September 2016 19th out of 38 10th out of 38 4th out of 38 performance Date of Number of Vesting Vesting Value of grant shares granted outcome eps outcome TSR award vesting Michael Roney 5 April 2013 38,500 50% 640,774 32.2% 7 October 2013 37,000 50% 706,735 Frank van Zanten 5 April 2013 15,000 50% 249,652 32.2% 7 October 2013 13,500 50% 257,863 Brian May 5 April 2013 20,000 50% 332,870 32.2% 7 October 2013 19,500 50% 372,469 Patrick Larmon 5 April 2013 23,000 50% 382,800 32.2% 7 October 2013 22,000 50% 420,221 Note Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 75 is the value of these vested awards at the closing mid-market share price on the dates of vesting, 5 April 2016 and 7 October 2016, which were 2,025p and 2,324p respectively.
Total pension entitlements audited information Value of cash allowance Additional Pension including Pension plans value value in any company DC normal of pension the year and or 401k Total retirement on early from DB contributions pension age retirement scheme in 2016 2016 Michael Roney 83,748 83,748 Frank van Zanten 158,295 158,295 Brian May 60 68,515 113,910 182,425 Patrick Larmon 65 16,120 16,120 Notes a Michael Roney received a pension allowance of 30% of basic salary and retired as Chief Executive on 20 April 2016 and left the employment of the Company on 30 April 2016. b As Chief Executive Frank van Zanten receives a pension allowance of 25% of base salary.
Prior to this his pension allowance was 20% of basic salary.
c Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit DB sections of the Bunzl Pension Plan BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP.
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap.
The pensionable salary cap is notionally 150,600 for tax year 2016 17 and 149,400 for tax year 2015 16.
The employee contribution rate is currently 10% of pensionable salary.
d In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
e Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued.
Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution DC plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2016 of 7,352 2015: 6,536.
78 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 f In addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Patrick Larmons SERA, which became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
No further SERA payments were made in 2016 2015 : US$45,007.
g Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, LLC Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2016 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to 8,768 2015: 7,794.
LTIP grant policy Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior executives.
Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of announcement of the Companys results.
Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year.
Executive share options were granted in March and September 2016 and performance share awards were granted in April and October 2016 under the 2014 LTIP in accordance with the policy and performance conditions as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Options were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part A on 3 March 2016 and on 2 September 2016 at a value of 1,945p and 2,336p per share respectively.
Performance shares were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part B on 11 April 2016 and on 11 October 2016 at a value of 2,051p and 2,325p per share respectively.
Performance conditions for 2016 awards The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2014 LTIP to the Companys executive directors, Executive Committee members and selected key employees in 2016 were as detailed below.
Executive share option awards LTIP Part A Executive share options may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable Below 5% Nil 5% 25% Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%100% 8% or above 100% 79 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Performance share awards LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 6% Nil 6% 25% Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%100% 12% or above 100% The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
These performance share awards may vest based on the following sliding scale: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% The applicable comparator group for the 2016 awards were those companies in the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors.
Shareholder dilution In accordance with The Investment Association Principles of Remuneration, the Company can satisfy awards to employees under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in a rolling 10 year period.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury, 5% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation to satisfy awards under executive discretionary plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 67.
Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and the International and Irish Sharesave Plans.
Awards under the LTIP of executive options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which buys shares on the market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Cumulative options and performance shares granted as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards as at 31 December 2016 10% in any rolling 10 year period 2.2% 5% in any rolling 10 year period executive discretionary plans 1.2% Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information As at 31 December 2016, all executive directors and their connected persons have a shareholding as follows: Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2016 at the closing mid-market price 2,109p Frank van Zanten 185% Brian May 419% Patrick Larmon 345% Note Under the terms of the Company remuneration policy Frank van Zanten has a period of up to three years to build up his shareholding requirement of not less than 200% of his base salary which is proposed to increase to 250% under the new remuneration policy to be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
In his previous role, he was not required to meet a shareholding requirement.
80 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Interests in shares and share options The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Companys ordinary shares and share options to 31 December 2016 were: Total Shares Options LTIP Part A and Sharesave interests held Unvested Unvested and subject and subject to Unvested Unvested to holding performance and subject to subject to Vested Owned period conditions performance continued but not outright DASBS LTIP Part B conditions employment exercised Frank van Zanten 57,261 25,732 79,034 126,467 1,642 18,000 308,136 Brian May 105,240 38,650 88,221 153,441 2,173 24,500 412,225 Patrick Larmon 127,623 38,542 117,807 201,160 130,000 615,132 Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000 David Sleath 4,000 4,000 Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000 Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500 Meinie Oldersma 2,500 2,500 Vanda Murray 3,000 3,000 As Meinie Oldersma resigned from the Board on 22 August 2016, the above represents his holding at that date.
Performance graph and table 460 Bunzl Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies FTSE 350 Support Services and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 400 requires that the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a hypothetical 340 holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity 280 market index over an eight year period.
The Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 350 Support 220 Services Sector over an eight year period commencing 160 on 1 January 2009 is shown to the right.
100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Chief Executives pay in last eight years audited information The table below summarises the Chief Executives single total figure of remuneration, annual bonus and long term incentive pay out as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2016 and the previous seven years.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Single total figure of remuneration 000 1,943.2 2,314.2 3,394.1 3,502.9 4,387.6 4,766.8 3,937.9 3,718.3 Annual variable element award rates against maximum opportunity 45% 71% 99% 67% 91% 85% 64% 45% Long term incentive vesting rates LTIP Part A options 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% against maximum opportunity LTIP Part B performance shares 84% 65% 29% 45% 62% 89% 69% 82% Notes a T he data for 2016 includes the amounts relating to Michael Roney from 1 January 2016 to 19 April 2016 and also includes the LTIP awards made to him that vested in the period from 20 April to 31 December 2016.
There was no bonus award for Michael Roney in relation to 2016. b The data for 2016 also includes the amounts relating to Frank van Zanten from 20 April to 31 December 2016 including the bonus award for that period and the international relocation package with accommodation benefit support, but excludes the LTIP awards made to him in his previous role that vested during the period from 20 April to 31 December 2016. c All years prior to 2016 relate to Michael Roney.
d No LTIP awards that have been granted to Frank van Zanten since he became Chief Executive on 20 April 2016 have vested during 2016. e The single total figure of remuneration in relation to 2015 has been restated from the figure shown in the 2015 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the grant price and the value of the relevant LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting as detailed in Note f to the table of the single total figure of remuneration 2016 on page 75.
81 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management population.
This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries have the Groups largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package.
Employees from businesses acquired by Bunzl in 2016 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
UK and US management Chief Executive population Percentage Percentage change change 2016 vs 2015 2016 vs 2015 Salary -13% 2% Benefits 1% 3% Bonus -10% 22% Notes a Salary percentage change based on Michael Roneys salary of 922,000 for 2015 and Frank van Zantens salary of 800,000 on appointment to Chief Executive on 20 April 2016. b Benefits are annualised and exclude the 2016 international relocation package benefit for Frank van Zanten of 353,191. c Bonus amount is lower for the newly appointed Chief Executive, Frank van Zanten, compared to the former Chief Executive, Michael Roney.
d US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year.
e Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2016 and 2015 as stated in Note 21 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 127 and 122 respectively.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2016 2015 change Overall expenditure on pay 647.3 558.1 16.0% Dividend paid in the year 125.4 116.1 8.0% Notes a Overall expenditure on pay excludes employers social security costs.
b Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial years interim and final dividends.
c The percentage change in overall expenditure on pay includes the impact of changes in exchange rates from 2015 to 2016, the background to which is referred to in the Chief Executives review on page 18 and in the Financial review on page 32.
Departure terms of Michael Roney Chief Executive until 20 April 2016 Michael Roney retired from the Board on 20 April 2016 and left the Group on 30 April 2016.
His departure terms, as determined by the Committee within the terms of the Companys remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM, were set out in the 2015 Annual Report and were as follows: salary which was not increased on 1 January 2016, benefits and pension allowance were paid as usual until 30 April 2016 the Leaving Date : no payment in lieu of notice was made: no annual cash bonus or DASBS award was made for the 2016 financial year: any deferred shares outstanding at the Leaving Date, which were awarded under the DASBS in relation to the 2014 and 2015 financial years, will vest in full on 1 March 2017: no grants or awards under the LTIP were made in 2016: and any grants and awards outstanding at the Leaving Date, which were made under the LTIP Part A and B in 2013, 2014 and 2015, will vest at the normal vesting date subject to satisfaction of the existing performance conditions and provided that prior to the relevant vesting date Michael Roney has not worked in any capacity for a competitor organisation.
Recovery provisions continue to apply.
82 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 2017 Remuneration audited information The current remuneration policy was implemented with effect from the 2014 AGM and continues to apply until the 2017 AGM when the new policy is submitted to shareholders for approval.
Salary The salary increases for the executive directors for 2017, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees in the Group as discussed on page 69, are as follows: Salary from Salary from Increase in 1 January 1 January salary 2017 2016 2016 to 2017 Frank van Zanten 816,000 800,000 2.0% Brian May 540,600 530,000 2.0% Patrick Larmon US$1,081,200 US$1,060,000 2.0% Notes a As reported on page 75 Frank van Zantens salary was 800,000 from his appointment as Chief Executive on 20 April 2016. b The average sterling : dollar exchange rate for 2016 was 1: $1.36.
2017 bonus targets The structure for Frank van Zantens, Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons annual bonus for 2017 is described on pages 64 and 65.
The threshold for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set at the actual result achieved in 2016 on a constant exchange rate basis.
For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of PBITA performance of NA relative to budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of NAs RAOC relative to the target set.
The relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
These performance points are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
As in previous years, the specific performance points are not disclosed while still commercially sensitive, but are disclosed the following year.
Performance measures for long term incentives to be awarded in 2017 Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in 2017 will be subject to the same performance conditions as those executive share options and performance share awards granted in 2016 as detailed on pages 79 and 80.
Chairmans and non-executive directors fees for 2017 audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years with the most recent review having taken place with effect from 1 January 2016.
The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually and were most recently reviewed with effect from 1 January 2017.
The current fee structure for the Chairman and the non-executive directors is shown below: With effect from Increase 1 January Fees paid in fees 2017 in 2016 2016 to 2017 Chairmans fee 340,000 340,000 Non-executive director basic fee 68,850 67,500 2.0% Supplements: Senior Independent Director 17,000 16,000 6.25% Audit Committee Chairman 17,000 16,000 6.25% Remuneration Committee Chairman 17,000 16,000 6.25% 83 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Additional information on directors interests Details of the executive directors interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are set out below.
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2016 The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company and any director with an interest in the Company during 2016 under the DASBS are set out in the table below.
Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 64.
No shares lapsed during the year.
Frank van Zanten did not receive a share award under the DASBS in 2013 which would have vested on 1 March 2016.
84 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 LTIP The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP during 2016.
In addition Michael Roney exercised share options on 5 September 2016 in respect of 47,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 1,375p, at a market price of 2,380p, resulting in a gain of 477,375: iii Brian May on 29 June 2016 in respect of 27,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 1,240p, at a market price of 2,201p, resulting in a total gain of 264,275: and iv Patrick Larmon on 23 March 2016 in respect of 41,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 812.5p, at a market price of 1,985p, resulting in a gain of 486,590. b The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2016 was 2,109p and the range during 2016 was 1,735p to 2,436p.
c The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A. d Executive share options granted in February 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A.
Executive share options granted since then have been granted under the 2014 LTIP Part A.
b P erformance share awards granted in April 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part B.
Performance share awards granted since then have been granted under the 2014 LTIP Part B.
86 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 All employees share scheme Sharesave Schemes The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Schemes.
Details of the Sharesave Schemes are set out on page 67.
