Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, The role of the Remuneration Committee continues to be to ensure that remuneration for the executive directors and other senior executives enables them to be completely focused on driving the Companys performance and delivering our key strategies in a responsible way.
It is also our responsibility to ensure that remuneration received by the executive directors is aligned with the levels of performance achieved and the value delivered to you as shareholders.
As reported by the Chairman and the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer in their introductory letters to this years Annual Report, 2015 16 has been a challenging year for the luxury sector globally, resulting in Group Revenue of 2,514.7m and Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax PBT of 420.6m.
As we have announced, with the outlook for demand in luxury uncertain and underlying cost pressures persisting for the sector, we are accelerating our productivity and efficiency agenda, especially looking at our ways of working.
We are also addressing how to optimise future organic revenue growth opportunities, the resulting investment plans and our capital structure.
Please see page 30 for further information.
Remuneration for 2015 16 Against this backdrop of a challenging external environment, the senior executive team has remained focused on the management of the business and the execution of our key strategies.
We continue to drive the business to ensure Burberry is best placed forlong-term, sustainable growth and value creation.
Our financial outcomes reflect these economic challenges and, given the stretching nature of the performance targets we had set at the beginning of our financial year, the level of remuneration received by the executive directors for the 2015 16 year is lower than in 2014 15.
In particular, the points I would draw your attention to are as follows: 2015 16 Group Adjusted PBT achieved was below the threshold target set by the Remuneration Committee at the start ofthe year and so no annual bonus will be paid to the executive directors: the relatively subdued growth in Group Adjusted PBT over the three-year period ending in 2015 16 means that awards granted in 2013 based on this performance measure Co-Investment Plan CIP awards and 50% of Restricted Share Plan RSP awards will not vest.
The remaining 50% of 2013 RSP awards based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to our peers will also not vest: the Committee has reviewed progress for the year against the performance criteria on Christopher Baileys 2014 exceptional share award and has determined that achievement for 2015 16 was 50% of maximum.
Section 5 of this report includes detailed commentary on progress towards the objectives for this second year of the performance period: and Given the uncertain external environment and the reflection of these economic challenges in our financial outcomes, Christopher Bailey has requested that the vesting date of the first tranche of his 2013 exceptional share award be deferred for a further 12 months, from July 2016 to July 2017.
Ahead of the new vesting date in July 2017, the Committee and Christopher Bailey will again assess the extent to which vesting would be appropriate.
Remuneration Policy Operation The Remuneration Committee is pleased to confirm that all remuneration payments to executive directors made during the year have been in line with Burberrys directors remuneration policy remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy has proved fit-for-purpose, reflecting the long-term performance of the Company, and remains appropriate for the year ahead.
We have chosen to include the full remuneration policy in this report to help you to better interpret the Annual Report on Remuneration.
We will be seeking shareholder approval for a new remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM, when the existing policy reaches the end of its three year-life.
The Committee will be reviewing our remuneration arrangements in detail ahead of this, toensure the new policy will serve Burberry well for a further three-year period.
We will look to consult with our largest shareholders regarding the new remuneration policy towards the end of the year.
83 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration for 2016 17 In terms of how the remuneration policy will be operated during the 2016 17 year, section 4 sets out the Committees intended approach in detail.
The points I would draw to your attention are that: the executive directors will not be receiving any increase to salaries: the weightings and definitions for the Executive Share Plan ESP performance measures to be applied to awards to be granted in 2016 will remain unchanged from those used for the 2015 awards: and the award levels for the 2016 ESP grant will be reviewed and the performance measure targets to be applied will be carefully re-calibrated to ensure they remain stretching and appropriately motivating and, most importantly, are aligned with our strategy and performance goals.
In the context of work on our productivity and efficiency agenda and its resulting benefits, the Committee is currently reviewing the approach to take for ESP awards to be granted in 2016, and in particular the performance targets that will be applied.
The Committee considers it critical that the 2016 ESP performance targets are aligned with the resulting three-year financial goals and are calibrated based on the most relevant internal and external information.
We typically grant our share awards each year during July, and the Committees normal approach is to determine the quantum and performance targets to be applied to these awards well in advance, at its March meeting.
This was not possible this year due to the ongoing productivity and efficiency work described above.
As a result, the Committee was not in a position to determine and disclose the 2016 ESP award levels and targets ahead of publication of this report.
The Committee has therefore decided to delay the grant of awards for 2016 from the normal date in July to November.
The Committee values the views of shareholders and has decided on this timing to allow time to share and discuss the proposed targets with our largest shareholders ahead of any formal disclosure and grant.
The Committee will review the quantum of ESP awards in light of any changes to performance targets.
The Committee remains committed that remuneration should be strongly linked to performance.
Once determined, the final 2016 ESP awards and targets will be disclosed on our website.
The Committee values the views of shareholders and takes feedback received on any aspect of Burberrys executive remuneration very seriously and I would like to thank shareholders for the ongoing feedback on executive remuneration generally in this and prior years.
Following four years as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I have decided to step down from the role.
I am delighted to share with you that Fabiola Arredondo will succeed me as Chairman with effect from 1 August 2016 and I am confident that under her chairmanship the Committee will continue to take a responsive and responsible approach to executive remuneration.
I would like to thank shareholders once again for the time you have invested and the support you have given the Committee, and to me personally, during my time as Chairman.
This 2016 17 Annual Report on Remuneration and this statement will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM on 14 July 2016.
As I hope it is clear from this report, the Committee remains committed to aligning pay with performance and with the experience of long-term shareholders.
We look forward to gaining your support on the report when it is put to the vote at the AGM.
Ian Carter Chairman, Remuneration Committee 84 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Summary contents The remuneration report is set out in the following sections: 1.
Directors remuneration in 2015 16 Annual Report on Remuneration 3.
Further information on Christopher Baileys 2014 exceptional performance-based award of 500,000 shares 6.
Payments made in the year to former directors 7.
Payments for loss of office 8.
Seven-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration 1.
Directors remuneration policy Burberrys directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM and took effect from the date of the 2014 AGM, 11 July 2014.
Since the policy has a maximum life of three years and has not changed since its introduction, we are not seeking approval for it this year and it is set out in this report for reference only.
The Committee intends that this policy should apply until the 2017 AGM.
The charts illustrating indicative levels of total remuneration for the executive directors have not been included this year, and the full original version of the remuneration policy can be found in the 2013 14 Annual Report, available on the Companys website.
The Committee believes the Groups remuneration should be strongly linked to performance and internationally competitive, taking into account the global markets in which it operates and from which it recruits.
The remuneration policy is based onthe following principles.
Linked to the success and strategy of the business: the overall remuneration framework should provide a balance between key short-term and long-term business objectives.
Variable pay for executive directors includes 1 an annual cash bonus based on the financial performance of Burberry currently Adjusted Profit Before Tax Adjusted PBT is the sole performance measure, and 2 long-term share-based incentives linked primarily to the financial performance of the Company but having regard to the delivery of objectives set in accordance with the Companys long-term strategic themes.
Shareholder value: remuneration should provide close alignment with long-term value creation for shareholders through theselection of appropriate performance measures and targets, be tied to the future success of the Company, emphasise variable pay and deliver a significant proportion of remuneration in shares, some of which are expected to be retained in accordance with the Groups executive shareholding policy.
Competitive in the global talent market: total remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain exceptional talent within the global luxury goods and digital sectors.
Total remuneration for executive directors and other senior executives is therefore benchmarked against Burberrys main global competitors for talent and comparable UK companies.
The Committee recognises that, for each executive, the relative importance of each of these reference groups may be different depending on the skills and experience required to undertake the specific role.
Benefits are based on competitive market practice for each executive depending on individual circumstances.
A djusted Profit Before Tax is defined in note 2 of the Financial Statements and all references to Adjusted PBT in this report refer to this definition.
85 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 1.1 Directors remuneration policy effective from 11 July 2014 Maximum annual opportunity Purpose and link toperformance Operation Executive directors Base salary Maximum annual increase per individual Annual increases are normally in line with the average increase To recognise the executive director : 15% of salary.
for all employees and below the maximum shown.
responsibilities, Salary levels and increases for executive directors are setwithin experience and ability the same framework and ranges as those forallother employees, ofour talent in a taking into account individual performance and overall contribution competitive global to the business during the year, cost to the Company and the environment, keeping external economic climate.
ourpeople focused on, Salaries are benchmarked annually against global companies of and passionate about, similar size and or global reach within relevant sectors.
on the role, this comprises companies in the luxury goods sector and or companies with high-profile global brands particularly in the digital sector, and to a lesser extent comparable UK companies and or companies with a high growth profile.
Salaries are reviewed, although not necessarily increased, annually.
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
The Committee retains the ability to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility, and or other matters relating to the role or incumbent.
Inthese situations the Committee reserves the discretion to make annual increases above the maximum increaseshown.
Annual bonus Maximum awards are: The Committee reviews the performance measure annually to ensure To reward executive it remains appropriate and is aligned with Burberrys strategy.
225% of salary directors for achieving Adjusted profit will be the primary measure used bymanagement annual financial targets Performance measure s : and the Committee believes strong performance in adjusted profit linked to the strategic 100% linked to adjusted profit performance is key to delivering superior shareholder returns.
Ultimately, the plan agreed by successful implementation of the key strategic themes is reflected theBoard.
Percentage of maximum bonus payable inthe adjusted profit.
at each level ofperformance: Targets are set before the start of each year by reference to budget, 25% at threshold the strategic plan, long-term financial goals, latest projections for 50% at target the relevant year and broker earningsestimates for Burberry and its competitors.
100% at maximum Targets will be disclosed retrospectively following completion of the relevant financial year, provided theyarenot deemed to be commercially sensitive.
50% of bonus will be deferred in shares for three years until executive shareholding guidelines are met.
Use of judgement: The Committee may determine that itis appropriate to adjust down or up the bonus outcome.
This may take into account factors such as misalignment of adjusted profit performance with other financial and operational measures of performance or targets no longer being appropriate.
It is anticipated that any adjustment would be infrequent and in exceptional circumstances only.
Details of any application of judgement would be disclosed at the time in the relevant remuneration report.
86 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Maximum annual opportunity Purpose and link toperformance Operation Burberry Executive Maximum awards are: Targets for the measures will be calibrated ahead of eachannual Share Plan ESP grant by reference to the latest strategic plan, long-term financial 400% of salary in normal circumstances To focus executives goals, latest three-year projections andbroker earnings estimates 600% of salary in exceptional on, and reward them for, for Burberry and its competitors.
The threshold targets will be circumstances, tobedetermined at the sustainable long-term calibrated tobeof median difficulty, and the maximum targets Committees discretion performance and willbeof upper quartile difficulty.
Targets will be disclosedahead successful execution of each annual grant.
Performance measures for executive ofthe Groups directors tobemeasured over three years: Growth in adjusted profit has been chosen as it continues to be the long-termstrategy.
primary financial measure used by shareholders and management, 50% to 60% on growth in adjusted profit: To help maintain the and the Committee believes strong growth in adjusted profit is key 25% vesting for threshold performance stability of the top to delivering superior shareholder returns.
The efficient use of capital 100% vesting for maximum performance executive team, and align measure is intended to incentivise management to combine superior Straight-line vesting in between executives interests with growth in profit and revenue with attractive return on incremental those of shareholders.
investment but not to act as a disincentive toinvest.
Burberrys 20% to 25% on a measure to incentivise strategy is designed to deliver both profit and revenue growth the efficient use of capital: and therefore to align with strategy a measure based on revenue 25% vesting for threshold performance growth is proposed as a transparent and quantifiable indicator 100% vesting for maximum performance of performance.
Straight-line vesting in between Where the information is not deemed by the Committee tobe 20% to 25% on revenue growth: commercially sensitive, commentary will be providedon an annual basis outlining progress against thetargets and, for completed 25% vesting for threshold performance cycles, detail on the performance achieved.
100% vesting for maximum performance A cash payment equivalent to the value of dividends which would Straight-line vesting in between have been received during the vesting period will be paid only in Vesting: 50% after three years, remaining respect of shares that vest.
Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to grantawards of up to 600% of salary in exceptional circumstances and to vary the weighting applied to each measure within the ranges shown.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders in advance of applying such discretion to grant awards of up to 600%.
Use of judgement: The Committee will have the ability toadjust down or up the calculated level of vesting by reference to the quality of earnings and effective execution of strategy to ensure the growth delivered is long-term sustainable growth.
Details of any adjustments would be disclosed in the relevant remuneration report.
Malus provision: Unvested shares or awards maybeforfeited in whole or in part in the event of amaterial misstatement in the Companys audited financial statements.
All-employee Sharesave: maximum savings amount of Burberry operates two all-employee share plans: shareplans 6,000 per annum, with which shares can The Sharesave Scheme offers eligible employees including To encourage employee be purchased with a 20%discount.
executive directors an opportunity to enter into a three or five-year share ownership at Share Incentive Plan and International savings contract to save a portion of their salary which can be used alllevels.
Freeshare Plan: awards with a value of to purchase Burberry shares, normally at the end of the savings up to 500 per annum.
contract, at up to a 20% discount to the market price at the date of invitation.
Awards of shares or a cash equivalent where the use ofshares is not possible are made annually to all eligible employees under the UK Share Incentive Plan and International Freeshare Plans.
Discretion: The Committee reserves the right to increase the maxima to the extent that the change is made on the same basis for all employees participating in the plan.
Pensions Maximum Company contribution: Executive directors participate in defined contribution arrangements.
To offer market- 30% of salary perannum.
Participants may elect to receive some or  as competitive benefits.
87 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Maximum annual opportunity Purpose and link toperformance Operation Other benefits The aggregate maximum value of all other Benefit levels are reviewed on an annual basis and the costto the andallowances benefits and allowances is not anticipated to Company of providing benefits can vary due toa number of factors.
To promote the exceed 100,000 per individual per annum.
Benefits for executive directors may include, but are notlimited to: well-being of employees, The Committee may agree that the Company private medical insurance allowing them to focus will pay additional allowances linked to on the business.
life assurance relocation or international assignment.
For the purposes of providing a maximum, itis not long-term disability insurance expected that this would exceed 250,000 in car allowance anyyear for one individual.
clothing allowance For the CC & CEO only, the maximum value employee discount of all cash allowances is 440,000 per annum, as agreed in his previous role, prior to his Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
appointment as an executive director.
He is Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion toprovide also entitled to receive the non-cash benefits, other benefits to the executive directors asdeemed necessary.
as noted to the right: the value of these is notexpected to exceed 20,000 per annum.
Discretion to honour all prior commitments The Committee reserves the right to make any payments where the terms were agreed before this policy came into effect or prior to an individualbeing appointed a director of the Company.
These payments will include the satisfaction of share awards previously granted.
Outstanding Maximum awards subject to investment It is the Committees intention that outstanding CIP awards Co-Investment Plan of bonus : should be allowed to pay out according to theterms on grant.
CIP awards prior 400% of salary that is a two-times match Further details are contained in the remuneration report for the commitments on amaximum bonus of 200% of salary year of grant and will be included in the remuneration report To allow payment of for the final year of the performance period.
The performance measure that determines awards made under vesting isgrowth in Adjusted PBT over Malus provision: None.
Outstanding Restricted Maximum awards: It is the Committees intention that outstanding RSP awards should Share Plan RSP be allowed to pay out according to theterms on grant.
200% of salary awards prior Further details are contained in the remuneration report for the year One-off exceptional award of 300% of commitments of grant and will be included in the remuneration report for the final salary grantedto the CC & CEO in his To allow payment of year of the performance period.
previous role, priortohis appointment outstanding awards, as an executive director Malus provision: None.
Performance conditions for executive directors: 50% on growth in Adjusted PBT over three years 50% on relative TSR vs. sector peers over three years Outstanding 1 In Christopher Baileys prior role as It is the Committees intention that outstanding exceptional exceptional share Chief CreativeOfficer.
share awards should be allowed to payoutaccording to the awards prior terms on grant.
Maximum outstanding awards: commitments Further details will be included in the remuneration report for the 1,350,000 shares To allow payment of year when any awards are included in the single figure of total outstanding awards, Vesting conditions are continued employment remuneration.
made under prior over three, four and five years from date of grant In the case of the award on appointment to the CC & CEO, commitments to 2 On Christopher Baileys appointment to the Committee will disclose further details on the key strategic Christopher Bailey.
performance objectives at the time they are considered not Maximum outstanding award: to be commercially sensitive and will provide commentary on progress towards these objectives on an annual basis.
500,000 shares Vesting conditions are key strategic performance objectives, as determined by the Remuneration Committee at date of grant, and continued employment over three, four and five years from date of grant Notes: Adjustment of share awards: The number of shares subject to an award can be adjusted on a rights issue, special dividend, demerger or variation of capital or similar transaction.
Awards will vest on a takeover to the extent performance conditions are achieved and the number of shares will be generally prorated to reflect early vesting.
Alternatively, they can be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee can also allow full or partial vesting on a demerger, special dividend, distribution in specie or if the participant is relocated in circumstances which would give rise to unfavourable tax treatment.
Shareawards can be satisfied by a cash payment equal to the value of shares the participant would otherwise have received.
In respect of our share plans, this table presents a summary of the key and relevant information for the Plan Rules.
It is the Committees intention that these plans will operate in accordance with the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders.
88 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation Non-executive directors Chairman fees Maximum increase: 10% of fee per annum over period The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
To attract and retain a since last review date.
The fee level is reviewed at least every three years by high-calibre chairman theCommittee, with reference to UK market levels by offering a marketincompanies of a similar size, the time commitment competitive fee.
Non-executive Maximum increase for each type of fee per individual The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee.
The directors NEDs fees director : 10% of fee per annum over period since last Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees To attract and retain review date.
and the Senior Independent Director are paid an high-calibre nonadditional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
executive directors Fee levels are reviewed at least every three years by the byoffering marketBoard, with reference to UK market levels in companies competitive fees.
Chairman and NEDs Non-executive directors receive a 2,000 attendance Attendance allowances are paid in cash.
other benefits allowance per meeting for attendance at Board meetings Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
To enable the Chairman outside of their country of residence except the and non-executive Chairman and, as brand ambassadors, discount directors to undertake on Burberry products.
NEDs additional fees Maximum additional fee: 20,000 The Company has the discretion to pay an additional To allow flexibility to fee to a non-executive director should the Company provide additional fees require significant additional time commitment in ifrequired.
The Company currently has no intention to use thisdiscretion.
Policy on recruitment and promotion arrangements The Committee will pay new directors in accordance with the approved remuneration policy and all its elements as set out inthe table above.
The ongoing annual remuneration arrangements for new executive directors will therefore comprise base salary, annual bonus, ESP award, pension, benefits and all employee share plans.
In addition, the recruitment policy below permits the Committee to take the following actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
For an internal appointment, any commitment made in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according toitsterms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain allowances linked torelocation, as appropriate, and will meet expenses reimburse an executive against additional costs on appointment.
Inaddition, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain allowances linked to repatriation on termination ofemployment.
For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements to take account ofremuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer.
As far as possible and appropriate, such payments would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the relinquished remuneration.
If necessary, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements to secure an appointment.
TheCommittee would determine the performance conditions and time horizons that would apply to such awards atthetime.
Such awards would be limited to 600% of salary.
If necessary, the Committee may enter into a service contract with a longer initial notice period, reducing to 12 months orless on a rolling basis to secure the appointment of an executive from an environment where longer notice periods aremarket practice.
For internal appointments the terms and conditions of the individual employment prior to the appointment will remain inforce unless the Committee otherwise decides and the individual agrees.
89 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 1.3.
Supplementary information External directorships The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company and mayretain the fees payable from such an appointment.
Details of the directors other directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 64 and 65.
Remuneration policy in the rest of the Company The remuneration arrangements for executive directors outlined in section 1.1. above are consistent with those for the othersenior executives, although quantum and award opportunities vary by executive level.
During its deliberations on executive remuneration, the Committee considers the reward framework for all employees worldwide, ensuring that the principles applied are consistent with the executive remuneration policy.
Merit increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of employee remuneration.
All employees are eligible foran annual bonus based on performance and executive share plans are extended through the organisation to senior executives and high-potential employees as and where appropriate.
The principle of shareholder alignment is reflected throughout the organisation through our all employee share plans, which are where legally possible extended to all eligibleBurberry employees globally.
Policy on service agreements and termination provisions Executive directors The Companys general policy on directors service agreements is that they operate on a rolling basis with no specific end date and include a 12-month notice period both to and from the Company.
Christopher Bailey and Carol Fairweather have service agreements put in place prior to implementation of this policy and each includes a 6-month notice period to the Company.
Date of current service Date employment Notice period to the Notice period from the agreement commenced Company Company Christopher Bailey 30 April 2014 7 May 2001 6 months 12 months Carol Fairweather 11 July 2013 12 June 2006 6 months 12 months John Smith 6 February 2013 4 March 2013 12 months 12 months Standard terms on termination Salary, benefits and allowances: Executive directors continue to receive salary, benefits and allowances during their notice period.
Pursuant to the terms of Business Protection Agreements which set out restrictive covenants and terms relating to the non-solicitation of employees in place with the executive directors except the CC & CEO, payments equal tosalary for the duration of certain restrictive covenants may be made if the employer chooses to enforce them to protect Burberrys continuing business.
Annual bonus paid in cash: An executive considered to be a good leaver for example leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee may remain eligible for a prorated payment of the annual bonus subject to achievement of bonus targets.
An executive who has left employment for areason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period or before the payment is due, or who has given or been given notice in those circumstances at the time of payment, will not be eligible to receive an annual bonus.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the payment of annual bonus to leavers, as outlined below.
CIP invested shares: An executive leaving the Company for any reason is entitled to retain all invested shares held.
CIP matching awards: For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date.
Upon a change in control of the Company, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance at the point of change in control.
For an executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, CIP matching awards will lapse in full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to whichCIP matching awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
90 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report RSP awards: For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance.
Upon a change in control of the Company, outstanding awards will vest subject to performance at the point of change in control.
For an executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, RSP awards will lapse in full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which RSP awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
ESP awards: For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date.
For an executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, ESP awards will lapse in full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which awards vest for leavers, asoutlined below.
Other: Reasonable disbursements for example, legal or professional fees, relocation costs will be paid.
Discretion: In the Committees experience, directors leave for a wide variety of reasons and individual circumstances, which do not all fall within the good leaver categories outlined above.
The Committee therefore retains discretion toapprove payments to individuals based on individual circumstances and performance while in office.
In applying any suchdiscretion, the Committee will make any decisions by considering the best interests of shareholders and those oftheremaining employees including directors.
Where awards are subject to performance conditions, these would be tested at the end of the relevant period s and any award which is allowed to vest would be prorated for time in office.
Christopher Bailey The Company has agreed specific arrangements with Christopher Bailey in relation to termination of his employment insubstitution for the first two bullets of the standard terms described in the previous section Salary, benefits and allowances and Annual bonus paid in cash.
These specific arrangements are described below.
The Company may terminate Christopher Baileys service agreement without cause by giving 12 months written notice.
TheCompany may terminate the service agreement immediately, in its sole discretion, by written notice and electing to payto Christopher Bailey either 1 a lump sum representing his salary in lieu of the unexpired notice period within 14 days oftermination or 2 in monthly instalments of 1 12 of his annual salary and 1 12 of his annual allowance of 440,000 in lieuofthe unexpired notice period or until Christopher Bailey commences any new employment or engagement if earlier.
Christopher Bailey must use his reasonable endeavours to seek alternative employment during the balance of his unexpired notice period.
The Company will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, prorated to actual service in the bonus year.
The bonus would be paid on the usual bonus payment date.
Christopher Bailey may terminate his service agreement at any time for Good Reason, provided he has requested that the Company remedy the relevant breach within 14 days of notification and the Company has failed to do so.
Good Reason means the Company is guilty of serious and continued non-observance or breach of the terms of the service agreement orof any applicable substantial laws which are detrimental to Christopher Bailey.
On termination for Good Reason Christopher Bailey is entitled to a lump sum payment representing his salary in lieu of notice.
91 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Company may terminate the service agreement on health grounds by giving Christopher Bailey not less than six months notice once Christopher Baileys entitlement to Company sick pay has been exhausted or he has been incapacitated formore than 26 weeks whether or not continuous in any period of 52 weeks.
The Company may, in its sole discretion, terminate the employment by making a payment of 130% of his salary, and pay the allowance in lieu of notice within 14 days of termination.
The Company will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, prorated to actual service in that year.
If Christopher Bailey dies during his employment with the Company, the Company will pay his estate his salary to the termination date and a bonus calculated as for an ill health termination described above.
Upon termination of the service agreement, Christopher Baileys entitlements if any under the relevant share plans inwhichhe participates will be determined in accordance with the rules of those plans, as described above.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors serve under Letters of Appointment with the Company.
Non-executive directors may continue to serve subject to the annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of the Company, subject to sixmonths notice by either party.
There are no provisions for compensation for loss of office, or payments in lieu of notice in the Letters of Appointment.
Development of directors remuneration policy In developing and reviewing the directors remuneration policy, the Committee is mindful of the views of shareholders and issensitive of the relativities of arrangements for senior executives to those for employees more generally.
The Committee proactively seeks feedback from shareholders when considering any significant changes to remuneration forexecutive directors.
The Committee also listens to and takes into consideration investor views more generally throughout the year.
The Company will be consulting with its largest shareholders later in the summer of 2016 regarding 2016 ESP awards in particular the performance measure targets that will be applied and later in the year regarding the 2017 remuneration policy.
Base salary increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of Company-wide salary increases.
Given the scale, geographic spread and the diversity of roles of the Companys employees, the Committee does not proactively consult with employees specifically on the remuneration policy for directors.
Employees are free to communicate their views internally on any topic including by using the Burberry internal social media platform or using the employee confidential helpline.
In addition, many of the Companys employees are shareholders, through the Sharesave and Free Share plans, andthey, like other shareholders, are able to express their views on directors remuneration at each general meeting.
92 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.
Directors remuneration in 2015 16 Annual Report on Remuneration The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
Single figure of total remuneration outcomes for 2015 16 audited The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received or receivable by the directors in respect of the 2015 16 year or the three-year performance period ending on 31 March 2016 in respect of the 2013 Co-Investment Plan and2013 Restricted Share Plan awards.
The single figures of total remuneration are also included for the prior 2014 15 financial year.
The amounts shown for 2012 CIP awards vesting for Christopher Bailey and Carol Fairweather for year to 31 March 2015 shown in the 2014 15 report assumed a share price of 17.93, based on the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2015, and payments 208,578 and 21,406 respectively in lieu of dividends because these awards had yet to vest.
These awards vested on the 18 July 2015 at a share price of 16.01 and Christopher Bailey and Carol Fairweather received payments in lieu of dividends of 226,215 and 23,217 respectively the relevant amounts shown in the table above reflect these details.
Amounts for shares under Burberrys SAYE will be included in the single figure of total remuneration for the year in which they are exercised.
No SAYE share awards were exercised by executive directors during the 2015 16 year.
No shares were awarded under the Burberry SIP or Free Share plans to executive directors in the 2015 16 year.
No payment has been made to a past director during the 2015 16 year.
93 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report The table below details the benefits allowances received by the directors during the 2015 16 year: 2015 16 benefits Private Long-term allowances Cash Car Clothing medical Life disability Tax on Total 000 allowance allowance allowance insurance assurance insurance Expenses expenses 000 Executive directors Christopher Bailey 440 14 5 5 464 Carol Fairweather 10 15 4 1 3 33 John Smith 17 15 3 5 3 43 Non-executive directors Sir John Peace 2 2 4 Fabiola Arredondo 12 40 34 86 Philip Bowman 8 6 14 Ian Carter 12 38 31 81 Jeremy Darroch Stephanie George 12 50 41 103 Matthew Key 3 2 5 Dame Carolyn McCall 1 1 2 David Tyler Notes: Cash allowances for Fabiola Arredondo, Ian Carter and Stephanie George are attendance allowances of 2,000 for each meeting attended outside of their country of residence.
The reimbursement of certain expenses incurred by non-executive directors in the performance of their duties is deemed by HM Revenue & Customs to be subject to UK Income Tax.
The tables above include figures for Benefits allowances, including costs in respect of air travel and other incidental costs incurred in attending regular Board meetings.
Any tax liabilities arising on the reimbursement of these costs will be settled by the Company.
Amounts disclosed have been estimated and have been grossed up at a tax rate of 45%.
Note that expenses for FabiolaArredondo, Ian Carter and Stephanie George include travel expenses from the USA.
Salary and pension for 2015 16 audited When Christopher Bailey became an executive director and took on the role of Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer on1 May 2014, his salary remained unchanged at 1,100,000.
John Smiths salary was last reviewed in July 2014 and increased by 3.0% to 592,000 at that time.
Carol Fairweathers salary was also last reviewed in July 2014 and increased by11.1% to 500,000 in recognition of her strong performance as CFO and to address that her salary was set at below market levels when she was appointed to the role.
The executive directors did not accept any increase to their salaries forthe 2015 16 year.
Each executive director is entitled to an annual pension contribution or allowance equal to 30% of base salary.
No director has a prospective entitlement to receive a defined benefit pension.
94 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.3.
Annual bonus outcomes 2015 16 audited Annual bonuses for 2015 16 were based entirely on Adjusted PBT.
For the year to 31 March 2016, the 2015 16 Adjusted PBT achieved was below the threshold level set by the Committee, which resulted in no bonuses being paid to the executive directors, as set out in the table below.
Maximum bonus 2015 16 Level of 2015 16 2015 16 2015 16 2015 16 opportunity Adjusted PBT Adjusted PBT bonus payment bonus payment bonus payment Annual bonus for 2015 16 % of salary target m achieved m % of maximum % of salary 000 Christopher Bailey 200% 0% 0 Carol Fairweather 150% Target: 445 409.8 0% 0% 0 John Smith 150% 0% 0 T he bonus outcome is calculated using the average exchange rates of the year on which the targets were based, as set out in the performance condition to awards at the start of the performance period.
The level of Adjusted PBT achieved is therefore different lower this year than the reported 2015 16 Adjusted PBT due to the adjustments made by the Committee to reflect constant exchange rates.
Co-Investment Plan outcomes for 2015 16 audited In June 2013, Christopher Bailey and Carol Fairweather were awarded Co-Investment Plan CIP matching awards of 165,161 and 21,677 shares respectively.
Vesting was subject to performance from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016, as follows: 25% of awards vest if growth in Adjusted PBT is 5% per annum over three years, 100% vest if Adjusted PBT growth is equal to or exceeds 10% per annum over three years.
The vesting outcome based on three-year Adjusted PBT growth is calculated using constant exchange rates.
Actual Adjusted PBT growth over the three-year period to 31 March 2016 at constant exchange rates was 0.6% p. a. this is below the threshold of 5% p. a. and so none of the awards will vest, as set out in the table below.
2013 2013 CIP Adjusted Level of CIP award PBT growth Adjusted PBT 2015 16 2015 16 no.
of targets over growth achieved CIP vesting CIP vesting # CIP outcomes for 2015 16 matching shares three years p. a. over three years % of maximum 000 Christopher Bailey 165,161 Threshold: 5% 0.6% p. a.
0% 0 Carol Fairweather 21,677 Maximum: 10% 0% 0 # T he CIP outcome is calculated using the average exchange rates of the year on which the targets were based, as set out in the performance condition to awards at the start of the performance period.
John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013 and so did not receive a CIP award in 2013, as 2013 CIP awards were based on 2012 annual bonus outcome.
95 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.5.
Restricted Share Plan outcomes for 2015 16 audited In June 2013, Christopher Bailey, Carol Fairweather and John Smith were awarded Restricted Share Plan RSP awards as detailed in the table below.
Vesting was subject to performance from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016, as detailed in the table below.
Actual Adjusted PBT growth over the three-year period to 31 March 2016 at constant exchange rates was 0.6% p. a. this is below the threshold of 10% p. a. and so none of the awards will vest, as set out in the table below.
of Performance Vesting achieved over RSP vesting RSP vesting # RSP outcomes for 2015 16 shares measure schedule three years % of maximum 000 Christopher Bailey 243,542 Growth in 25% for 10% p. a.
0% 0 Adjusted PBT over three years 100% for 15% 50% p. a. or above Carol Fairweather 25,830 Straight-line 0% 0 vesting between TSR vs. sector 25% for median TSR outcome of peers over three below median years 50% 100% for upper ranking, resulting quartile or above in vesting of 0% John Smith 63,653 Straight-line 0% 0 vesting between # T he RSP outcome is calculated using the average exchange rates of the year on which the targets were based, as set out in the performance condition to awards at the start of the performance period.
T he vesting outcome based on TSR is calculated by Willis Towers Watson.
The TSR peer group for the 2013 awards comprised: Coach, Compagnie Financire Richemont, Este Lauder, Fossil, Geox, Herms International, Hugo Boss, Inditex, Kate Spade formerly Fifth & Pacific, Kering formerly PPR, Luxottica Group, LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Nike, Nordstrom, Polo Ralph Lauren, Swatch, Tiffany & Co, and Tods.
Saks was acquired by Hudson Bay during the period and so has been removed from the comparator group.
Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration relative to all employees The table below sets out the year-on-year change 2015 16 vs. 2014 15 in Christopher Baileys base salary, benefits and bonus received.
As Christopher Bailey was appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2014, the year-on-year change reported compares his salary, benefits and bonus received for the full 2014 15 year including April 2014 when he was Chief Creative Officer to that received in 2015 16.
The year-on-year change 2015 16 vs. 2014 15 of salary, benefits and annual bonus received for a comparator group of UK-based employees is also shown.
Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer Year-on-year change % 0% 0% -100% Employees Year-on-year change % 2.0% 0% -100% T he comparator group includes employees in senior corporate roles based in the UK.
This group has been chosen as these employees have a remuneration package with a similar structure to the CEO including salary, benefits allowances and annual bonus and being UK-based, most closely reflects the economic environment encountered by the CC & CEO.
For the comparator group of employees, the salary and bonus year-on-year changes include the annual salary review but exclude any additional changes made in the year to salary or bonus levels, for example on promotion.
In 2015 16, the bonus outturn based on Adjusted PBT performance was 0% of maximum, compared to 81% of maximum in 2014 15.
The 0% increase for benefits for the comparator group of employees reflects no change to benefits policies or levels during the year.
It does not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received as a result of a change in role, for example on promotion.
For all employees, the average salary increase was 2.0% including annual salary review but excluding any additional changes.
A meaningful year-on-year change for benefits and bonus for all Group employees cannot be provided due to the variation in structure of these pay elements across roles and regions.
Relative importance of spend on pay for 2015 16 The table below sets out the total payroll costs for all employees over 2015 16 compared to total dividends payable for theyear.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 16 2014 15 Dividends paid during the year total m 157.7 144.9 % change 8.8% Payroll costs for all employees m 396.4 468.1 % change -15.3% Average number of full-time equivalent employees 10,181 10,309 % change -1.2% 96 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 3.
Outstanding share interests The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
Conditional share awards granted in 2015 16 audited The table below summarises the long-term conditional share awards granted to directors during 2015 16.
Summary of conditional share awards granted in 2015 16 Performance Vesting Performance Basis of Number of Face value 2 Type of award measure schedule period end Director award shares awarded at grant ESP share Growth in 25% for 3% p. a.
31 3 2018 Christopher 350% of salary 241,581 3,850,000 1 awards Adjusted PBT Bailey over three years 100% for 11% 50% p. a. or above Carol Fairweather 250% of salary 78,435 1,250,000 Straight-line John Smith 250% of salary 92,867 1,480,000 vesting between Growth in 25% for 3% p. a.
Group revenue over three years 100% for 11% 25% p. a. or above Straight-line vesting between Adjusted Retail 25% for 2014 15 Wholesale Return ROIC minus 250 on Invested basis points Capital 25% 100% for 2014 15 ROIC Straight-line vesting between 1 T he ESP shares were awarded on 22 July 2015 and will vest 50% after three years and 50% after four years, subject to the performance conditions outlined above.
No ESP shares may be sold except to cover any tax liabilities arising out of the award until five years from the date of grant.
2 T he face value of each award has been calculated using the three-day average price prior to the date of grant 15.9367.
As receipt of these is conditional onperformance, the actual value of these awards may be nil.
Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2018 19 remuneration report.
Further information on conditional share awards granted in 2015 16 audited Growth in Adjusted PBT and Group revenue The vesting outcomes based on each of three-year Adjusted PBT and three-year Group revenue growth are calculated using Adjusted PBT and Group revenue as disclosed in the annual accounts, subject to any adjustments down or up made by the Committee to reflect constant exchange rates and any other items deemed to be outside of managements control.
Adjusted Retail Wholesale Return on Invested Capital ROIC Adjusted Retail Wholesale ROIC, for the purposes of the ESP performance measure, is calculated as the Retail Wholesale post-tax adjusted operating profit divided by the average operating assets, measured over the three-year period, on a reported currency basis.
A reconciliation of Adjusted Retail Wholesale ROIC is included in the five-year summary on pages 170 and 171.
Clawback and malus provisions A clawback provision applies to ESP awards, whereby for a period of three years from date of vesting, any vested shares or awards may be recovered from individuals in whole or in part in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys audited financial statements or if the outturn has been incorrectly calculated.
In addition, there is a malus provision that applies toESP awards, whereby unvested shares or awards may be forfeited in whole or in part in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys audited financial statements.
97 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 3.3.
Total interests in shares audited The table below summarises the total interests of the directors in ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc as at 31 March 2016.
There have been no changes in the period up to and including 17 May 2016.
These include beneficial and conditional interests and the interests of their connected persons in shares.
2 C IP awards are awarded as nil-cost options and are subject to the same performance conditions as outlined on page 95.
3 E SP awards are awarded as nil-cost options and are subject to the same performance conditions as outlined on page 97.
4 NCO denotes a Nil-Cost Option award.
5 Christopher Bailey exercised the following awards during the year: 235,151 shares under CIP granted 18 July 2012.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 22 July 2015 was 1559p: 350,000 shares under NCO granted 8 December 2010.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 22 July 2015 was 1559p.
6 C arol Fairweather exercised the following awards during the year: 24,134 shares under CIP granted 18 July 2012.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 22 July 2015 was 1559p: 6,250 shares under RSP granted 25 June 2008.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise 22 July 2015 was 1559p: 6,525 shares under RSP granted 10 June 2010.
98 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Shareholding guidelines To ensure continued alignment with the interests of shareholders, in 2014 the Board increased the minimum shareholding requirement for directors and senior executives to the following levels: 500,000 shares for the CC & CEO: two-times base salary for other executive directors: one-times base salary for other senior executives: and the Chairman and non-executive directors are expected to hold shares with a market value of 6,000 for each year oftheirappointment.
Senior executives are expected to retain 50% of shares acquired on the exercise of options and awards net of tax, until such guidelines are met there is no specific timeline in which shareholding guidelines must be achieved.
Only shares that are owned outright count towards the shareholding requirement.
The shareholding guidelines are applicable whilst directors andsenior executives are employed by the Company.
As at 31 March 2016, Christopher Bailey owned 561,589 shares and has therefore achieved his shareholding guideline.
As at 31 March 2016 at the closing share price of 13.65, the value of shares owned by Carol Fairweather and John Smith was 927,695 and 494,608 respectively or 186% and 84% of their respective salaries as at that date.
Carol Fairweathers shareholding is just below her shareholding guideline of two-times salary due to the change in share price during the year.
John Smith became an executive director during 2013, he is making progress towards his executive shareholding requirement of two-times salary and, as detailed above, is expected to retain 50% of shares acquired on the exercise of options and awards net of tax.
As at 31 March 2016, all of the non-executive directors had fulfilled the requirement to hold shares with a market value of 6,000 for each year of their appointment.
As at his leaving date, David Tyler had fulfilled his shareholding requirement.
This information on the achievement of shareholding guidelines has been audited.
Directors remuneration in 2016 17 The table below summarises how the remuneration policy will be implemented for executive directors in the year 2016 17.
The executive directors will not receive any increase to salary for the 2016 17 year.
There will be no changes to the policy for the 2016 17 year as compared to 2015 16.
Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2016 17 for executive directors Element Performance measure s Director Maximum level Base salary Christopher Bailey 1,100,000 0% increase Carol Fairweather 500,000 0% increase John Smith 592,000 0% increase Annual bonus Annual Adjusted PBT Christopher Bailey 200% of salary The Board considers the forward-looking PBT bonus targets to be Carol Fairweather 150% of salary commercially sensitive as they are linked to the Companys financial John Smith 150% of salary and strategic plans.
Targets will therefore be disclosed retrospectively only ESP share awards Three-year growth in Adjusted PBT 50% Christopher Bailey Award levels to be Targets to be determined determined Carol Fairweather in conjunction John Smith Three-year growth in Group revenue 25% with targets Targets to be determined Adjusted Retail Wholesale Return on Invested Capital 25% Targets to be determined 99 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 4.2.
Further information on ESP performance measures Whilst the ESP design has been agreed, the remuneration policy allows a degree of flexibility around a number of the ESP design elements.
This flexibility allows the Committee to determine the most appropriate approach to the following parameters ahead of each annual award: the weighting of each performance measure within the specified ranges the definition and calculation approach of each performance measure the threshold and maximum performance targets for each performance measure The Committee has determined that the weightings and definitions of each performance measure for the 2016 ESP awards will remain unchanged from those used in 2015.
These are summarised in the table below.
Weighting ESP performance measure Definition % of award Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax PBT 3-year growth, calculated 50% on a constant currency basis Group Revenue 3-year growth, calculated 25% on a constant currency basis Adjusted Return on Invested Capital ROIC in Retail Wholesale 3-year average 25% The proposed targets for all three performance measures will be carefully calibrated in light of a number of factors, including, most importantly, our strategy and performance goals, latest three-year projections and broker earnings estimates for Burberry and its competitors.
The Committee will ensure the targets are stretching and incentivise management to continue to deliver superior returns to shareholders.
As detailed in the introductory letter, the Committee is reviewing both the quantum of awards and the performance targets ahead of granting the 2016 ESP awards.
Due to the timing of work on the productivity and efficiency agenda, the Committee was not in a position to determine and disclose the 2016 ESP award levels and targets ahead of publication of this report.
The Committee therefore decided to delay the grant of awards from the normal date in July to November 2016 to allow time to engage with larger shareholders on the proposed awards and targets.
Once determined, the final awards and targets will be disclosed on our website.
ESP awards will vest 50% after 3 years and 50% after 4 years from the date of grant.
The Committee also applies an additional holding period on ESP awards granted to executive directors.
To increase long-term alignment with shareholders, while executives are employed by Burberry, no ESP shares may be sold except to cover any tax liabilities arising out of the award until five years from the date of grant.
100 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 4.3.
Summary of Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees for 2016 17 The table below sets out the fee structure for the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2016 17.
Fee level Summary of Chairman and NED fees for 2016 17 000 1 Chairman 400 Non-Executive Director 80 Senior Independent Director 20 Audit Committee Chair 35 Remuneration Committee Chair 35 2 Attendance allowance 2 1 T he Chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or attendance allowances.
2 N on-executive directors receive an attendance allowance for each meeting attended outside of their country of residence.
3 E xpenses incurred in the normal course of business are reimbursed and, as these are considered by HMRC to be taxable benefits, the tax due on these will also be met by the Company.
Further information on Christopher Baileys 2014 exceptional performance-based award of 500,000 shares The vesting of the exceptional performance-based award of 500,000 shares that was granted to Christopher Bailey upon hisappointment to the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer role will be determined by reference to the following keyperformance criteria: the strategic development of the business measured against the strategic plan approved by the Board from time to time: the Companys financial performance, in assessing which, the Remuneration Committee will have reference to the profit before tax condition applied to awards made in 2014 under the Burberry Group Co-Investment Plan.
This performance condition requires growth in Adjusted PBT over three years of between 5% at threshold and 10% p. a. at maximum.
the personal contribution made by Christopher Bailey: the shareholder value delivered in the context of the evolution of the luxury goods markets in which Burberry operated over the period between the date of grant and the relevant vesting date: and any other performance factors which are appropriate in assessing the extent of vesting having regard to the interests ofshareholders.
Vesting of the award will be phased over five years from the date of grant and only subject to the extent that the performance criteria outlined above have been met.
125,000 shares will vest on 31 July 2017, 125,000 shares on 31 July 2018 and 250,000 shares on 31 July 2019, subject to performance measured from the date of grant to the relevant vesting date.
101 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Committee assesses progress towards achieving these objectives each financial year and prior to each vesting date willdetermine the extent to which the objectives were achieved over the three, four or five year performance period, having regard tothe level of performance achieved in each relevant financial year.
By way of a reminder, the Committee determined that overall there was an 85% performance achievement in the 2014 15 year.
At the end of 2015 16 the Committee reviewed performance in relation to the award of 500,000 shares granted to the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, in the context of the following.
Strategic development In 2015 16 Burberry saw significant progress across the four key strategic themes: Brand First Continued to drive digital innovation through partnerships with leading media brands including DreamWorks, Snapchat and LINE, leveraging Burberrys new mobile platform, and continuing to blur the physical and digital consumer touch points, including the online offline inventory merge in the US and UK Initiated and substantially progressed complex process to move to single Burberry label for SS17 Awarded genius status and top fashion brand by digital consultant L2 Famous for Product Continued to renew Burberrys Heritage proposition with launch of Scarf Bar and colour and style option additions to the trench offering Accessories outperformed in year boosted by Banner bag and hit runway rucksack Achieved major milestone in make-up development with the global Sephora launch on Sephora.
com, and subsequent roll out to select stores including Paris flagship Customer Centric In retail, continued to invest in customer relationships loyalty and conversion through the extension of the Customer Value Management tool to over 380 stores globally, and expansion of the Burberry Private Client team Revolutionised runway show format with announcement of see now wear now September show Achieved the final stage of the global brand integration with the Japan licence exit in 2015, including launch of heritage marketing campaign in-market to educate local consumer, opening Shinjuku flagship store, and doubling retail sales year-over-year Productive and Responsible Realised 25 million discretionary spend savings in response to sudden change in operating environment Continued to reinforce Burberrys distinctive culture by becoming a principal partner of The Living Wage Foundation and accredited as a UK Living Wage employer, as well as gaining inclusion into the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, which recognises Burberry as among worlds top performing apparel companies for sustainability Professional social network LinkedIn named Burberry as the UKs 12th most sought after employer Financial performance Underlying Group Adjusted PBT annual change of -10% in a challenging global environment.
Underlying Group revenue annual change of -1% in a challenging global environment.
Personal contribution In the context of a challenging external environment, Christopher ensured the senior executive team remained focused on the management of the business and the execution of our key strategies.
He also ensured the senior executives were retained and motivated to continue to drive the business so that it is best placed for long-term, sustainable growth and value creation.
Christopher also initiated and led the teams work on accelerating our productivity and efficiency agenda and addressing how to optimise future organic revenue growth opportunities.
Shareholder value Share price has decreased by -8.1% since Christophers appointment to the CEO role from closing price on 30 April 2014 to31 March 2016 and dividends for 2015 16 are 37.0 pence per share.
Overall Total Shareholder Return TSR of -1.5% for Burberry for the two years to 31 March 2016, which compares to an average TSR of -10.8% for our core luxury peers and -0.1% for the FTSE 100.
B oss, Coach, Ferragamo, Hermes, Kering, LVMH, Prada, Ralph Lauren, Richemont, Swatch, Tiffany, Tods.
102 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report After careful review the Committee reached the conclusion that overall there was a 50% performance achievement in the 2015 16 year.
This outcome reflects that the annual change in Group Adjusted PBT was -10% and Group revenue was -1% underlying year-on-year, while 2015 16 shareholder return was lower than in 2014 15.
In the context of the slowdown in the luxury sector, the Committee considered that both the strategic development of the business and Christophers personal performance during the 2015 16 year continued to be excellent.
The outcomes for each year to date are as follows as a % of maximum : 2015 16: 50%: 2014 15: 85%.
Payments made in the year to former directors audited No payment has been made to a former director during the 2015 16 year.
Payments for loss of office audited There were no payments made for loss of office during the 2015 16 year.
Remuneration Committee in 2015 16 Committee membership The following directors served as members of the Committee throughout the financial year ending 31 March 2016: Ian Carter Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Philip Bowman Jeremy Darroch Stephanie George Matthew Key Dame Carolyn McCall David Tyler until 31 December 2015 Advisers to the Committee during 2015 16 At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the following people attendedmeetings and provided advice to the Committee: Sir John Peace Chairman, Christopher Bailey Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, Carol Fairweather Chief Financial Officer, John Smith Chief Operating Officer, Leanne Wood Chief People and Corporate Affairs Officer, Anne-Soline Thorndike Senior Vice President Reward and Recognition, NigelJones Vice President Group Financial Controller, Catherine Sukmonowski Company Secretary and MichaelMahony former Chief Corporate Affairs Officer.
During the 2015 16 financial year, the Committee received external advice from Willis Towers Watson, as detailed in the table below.
Willis Towers Watson has been the appointed independent adviser to the Committee since 2011 and was selected at that time following a formal tender process.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which is responsible for the development and maintenance of the voluntary Code of Conduct that clearly sets out the role of executive remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which they advise their clients and, as such, the Committee is satisfied that their advice is objective and independent.
Linklaters LLP provided advice to the Committee in relation to compliance with legislation, namely the regulations governing the disclosure of directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
103 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report External advisers and fees Services provided Other services provided Fees for Committee Advisers totheCommittee to the Company assistance Willis Towers Watson Appointed by the Committee, A term of the engagement between the Committee 73,516 WTW toprovide advice on the and WTW is that any additional consulting services Fees charged on a time ongoing operation of employee provided by WTW to management are reported on andexpense basis and executive share plans aregular basis to the Committee.
Where an actual together with advice on or potential conflict may occur, such work is executive remuneration agreed by the Chairman of the Committee prior tocommencement.
Fees charged on a time WTW provides market benchmarking information to management in relation to a small number and expense basis of roles which fall below the remit of Committee review.
Remuneration report voting results The table below shows the results of the remuneration related shareholder vote from the 2015 AGM and the last Directors Remuneration Policy vote which took place at the 2014 AGM.
As mentioned earlier in this report, the Committee listens to and takes into consideration investor views throughout the year, and was extremely pleased to receive majority support for the advisory vote on the 2014 15 Directors Remuneration Report.
As detailed in the introductory letter from the Remuneration Committee, the Company will be consulting with its largest shareholders later in the summer of 2016 regarding 2016 ESP awards in particular the performance measure targets that will be applied and later in the year regarding the 2017 remuneration policy.
AGM voting results Any issues raised and Vote Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Company response 2015 AGM: 293,615,258 24,597,147 18,133,355 Not applicable To approve theDirectors 92.27% 7.73% Remuneration Report for the year ended 31March 2015 advisory 2014 AGM: 271,305,305 51,981,069 11,037,131 Not applicable To approve theDirectors 83.92% 16.08% Remuneration Policy 104 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 9.
Seven-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration The chart below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Burberry Group plc compared to the companies in the FTSE100 index assuming 100 was invested on 31 March 2009.
The FTSE 100 was selected because Burberry became aconstituent on 10 September 2009 and prior to that had a market capitalisation close to that of companies at the lower endof the FTSE 100 index.
The table below shows the total remuneration earned by the incumbent Chief Executive Officer over the same seven-year period, along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive.
The total amounts arebased on the same methodology as used for the table on page 93 Single figure of total remuneration for 2015 16.
Details of this plan can be found in the relevant historical directors remuneration reports.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Ian Carter Chairman, Remuneration Committee 17 May 2016 105
