Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Part 1 Annual statement from the Chair of the committee The Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder, Members and meetings in 2016 As the Chair of Cairns remuneration committee, I am pleased to Member Meetings present our Directors Remuneration Report for 2016.
During the year, since attended we continued to apply the executive remuneration policy that was Jackie Sheppard 10 11 originally put in place in 2014.
However, as this policy will expire shortly, Chair shareholders will be asked to approve a new framework for directors pay at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ian T yler 06 13 An overview of the new policy is set out below, with full details being provided in the Directors Remuneration Policy that forms Part 2 of Iain McLaren 05 10 this report.
Part 3 contains our Annual Report on Remuneration which identifies the various elements of pay that were actually delivered to Peter Kallos 09 15 the Companys directors during the year ended 31 December 2016: an overview of these items is also set out in this introductory statement.
At this years AGM on 19 May 2017 shareholders will be asked to vote on the contents of the new Directors Remuneration Policy if approval is received, the policy will immediately become binding and it is anticipated that it will be operated during the remainder of 2017 and onwards until the 2020 AGM.
Shareholders will also be invited to pass an advisory vote in relation to the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committee hopes that our shareholders will be supportive of both these resolutions.
Our new remuneration policy for 2017 and beyond As highlighted in my introductory letter to last years directors remuneration report, the committee commenced its review of pay arrangements across the organisation during the course of 2015.
This process has involved a critical examination of each element of executive compensation in the context of the following principles: Alignment with strategy our remuneration policy should actively support an alignment with the Companys strategy and business model and should incentivise executives to deliver our long-term strategic objectives for the benefit of shareholders: Simplicity our pay structures should be simple and transparent, thereby improving line of sight for participants and increasing clarity for investors: and Best practice it is important that our remuneration arrangements appropriately reflect shareholders expectations and include best practice themes as they develop.
Against this background, the committee has formulated a new remuneration framework which is intended to provide a better balance between driving short-term performance and rewarding long-term success.
The restated policy does, however, maintain an emphasis on longer-term shareholder alignment and introduces a number of additional features that reflect changes to best practice since 2014.
Full details of the new policy are set out in Part 2 of this report: pages 123 and 124 also contains a summary of how it will actually be implemented in its first year of operation.
However, the main differences between the revised approach and the Companys 2014 policy can be highlighted as follows: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 98 Pay element Current 2014 policy New 2017 policy Annual bonus Bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary Maximum opportunity increased to 125% of with any amounts awarded to an individual salary.
However, any bonus earned in excess being paid out immediately in full.
of the previous 100% of salary limit will be deferred into Cairn shares for three years.
Long Term Incentive Plan Awards based on relative Total Shareholder Awards based on relative TSR limited to 200% normal award limits Return TSR normally limited to 300% of salary, of salary, plus a kicker of 50% of salary for plus a multiplier see below that can increase outstanding absolute performance see below.
awards up to 400% of salary for outstanding absolute TSR performance.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards may be made up to 400% No ability to grant awards in excess of normal exceptional award limits of salary 532% including multiplier in annual limits.
exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment.
No awards have been granted using this exceptional circumstances limit under the 2014 policy.
Long Term Incentive Plan Vesting of awards based on relative TSR For 2017, it is anticipated that two forms of performance conditions performance against a sector peer group, LTIP award will be granted to each executive with 20% vesting for achieving a median director, namely: ranking, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% a core award 200% of salary dependent vesting for upper decile performance.
on relative TSR performance against a comparator group, with 25% vesting for If an upper decile relative TSR is achieved, a median ranking, rising on a straight-line multiplier of up to 1.33 applies to the award basis to 100% vesting for achievement of based on Cairns absolute TSR performance.
upper quartile level: and a kicker award 50% of salary conditional on Cairns TSR performance delivering at least 100% growth and an upper quartile comparator group ranking.
Long Term Incentive Plan A one year holding period applies to 50% of A two year holding period will apply to all the holding periods the shares over which an LTIP award vests.
shares in respect of which a core or kicker award vests.
Taken together, and as illustrated in the following table, the proposed changes will deliver a reduction in the overall maximum incentive opportunity available to executive directors: Maximum normal opportunity as a % of base salary under.
Incentive arrangement Current 2014 policy New 2017 policy Annual bonus 100% 125% Long Term Incentive Plan core award 300% 200% Long Term Incentive Plan multiplier kicker award 100% 50% Total 500% 375% The committee is aware that the combined effect of the above variations will be to increase the proportion of the overall remuneration policy that is directly linked to short term performance.
Although we believe that this re-balancing is appropriate given the maturing nature of the business, we remain confident that there will continue to be a high level of alignment with long-term share price performance, particularly through the introduction of the new bonus deferral feature and the extended LTIP holding periods.
In addition, and subject to the new policy being approved, the committee has decided that it will increase the shareholding guidelines which apply to executive directors from 100% of salary to 200%.
In order to give effect to certain elements of this revised approach to executive pay, it will also be necessary for the Company to establish a new Long Term Incentive Plan that will replace the corresponding arrangement that was adopted by shareholders in 2009.
Full details of this plan which requires the approval of shareholders prior to its introduction are contained in the circular accompanying this years notice of AGM.
As part of the process surrounding the design of our new policy, we consulted extensively with the Companys major investors and their representative bodies in order to understand their views on our proposed changes.
Those we consulted with were generally supportive of the proposed changes, and certain suggestions made by these shareholders were included in the final structure set out in this report.
We firmly believe that the new policy described above represents a responsible and cohesive approach to executive remuneration that will support our strategy and appropriately reward our senior executives for delivering value to our shareholders.
99 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration in 2016 The work of the committee in 2016 was conducted against a backdrop of a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with a focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining balance sheet strength and financial flexibility.
Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2016 are described in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 110 to 124 and can be summarised as follows: Base salary increases At its meeting in November 2016, the committee agreed that, with effect from 1 January 2017, a base salary increase of 1% would be applied to both the Companys executive directors being Simon Thomson and James Smith.
The above increase was consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees at that time.
Annual bonus Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets were achieved during 2016, payments made under the annual bonus scheme to the executive directors during the year as a percentage of annual salary were 80.16% for Simon Thomson and 78.50% for James Smith.
Further details of the way in which these awards were determined are set out on pages 114 to 117 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted in 2013 came to an end during 2016.
Over this period, the Companys TSR was sufficient to place it above the median level in the applicable comparator group with the result that these awards vested in respect of 81.68% of the shares over which they were granted.
As part of the above vesting process, the LTIPs rules required the committee to review the Companys overall performance over the three years from the grant of the awards.
After due and careful consideration, the committee concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in such overall performance during that time.
Non-executive directors fees and Chairmans fee During 2016 the committee reviewed the Chairmans annual fee in the context of market data and the time commitment for the role.
Following this review the fee was increased from 160,000, as set on his appointment in May 2014, to 175,000 effective 1 January 2017.
The fees paid to non-executive directors were also reviewed during the year by the Board excluding non-executive directors.
Following this review it was determined that the basic annual fee would be maintained at 74,900.
Similarly, no change was made to the additional fee payable for chairing the audit and or remuneration committees.
Feedback on Directors Remuneration Report We welcome questions and feedback from all those interested on both the content and style of this report.
M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC Remuneration committee chair 7 March 2017 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 100 Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction This Directors Remuneration Policy provides an overview of the Companys policy on directors pay that it is anticipated will be applied in 2017 and will continue to apply until the 2020 AGM.
It sets out the various pay structures that the Company will operate and summarises the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as the recruitment of new directors and or the making of any payments for loss of office.
In accordance with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations, the policy contained in this part will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2017 and will take effect immediately upon receipt of such approval from shareholders.
As discussed in the Chairs introduction, the proposed policy includes a number of changes from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 15 May 2014 AGM: Increased maximum annual bonus opportunity from 100% to 125% of salary.
Introduction of annual bonus deferral for any bonus earned over 100% of salary.
Deferral would be into Cairn shares for a three year period.
Introduction of a replacement long-term incentive plan the 2017 LTIP.
Under this plan the total normal annual opportunity would be reduced from 300% of salary 400% including the absolute TSR multiplier to 200% of salary 250% including the kicker.
For 2017 awards this would include up to 200% of salary for relative TSR performance and up to 50% of salary for a mix of absolute and relative TSR performance.
Under the relative TSR element, the vesting schedule has changed from 20% vesting for median TSR performance and 100% for upper decile TSR performance to 25% vesting for median TSR performance and 100% for upper quartile TSR performance.
The absolute TSR element will be made more challenging and will only vest if the Companys relative TSR is at least upper quartile and three year absolute TSR performance is at least 100%.
Under the 2014 policy, the multiplier started to apply if the relative TSR hurdle had been achieved and if absolute three year TSR performance was at least 50%.
The holding period has been strengthened so that all vested shares whether arising from the relative or absolute TSR elements are subject to a two year holding period.
Purpose and role of the remuneration committee The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Groups PDMRs Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities.
Within the terms of this agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director and the PDMRs: determining the level of awards made under the Companys LTIPs and employee share award schemes and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining the KPIs used to measure performance for the annual bonus scheme: determining the bonuses payable under the Companys annual bonus scheme: determining the vesting levels of awards under the Companys LTIPs and employee share award schemes: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs.
The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual remuneration amounts for such individuals.
This oversight role allows the committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the executive directors and PDMRs.
For example, the committee considers the standard increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting executive directors base salaries for the same period.
The committee operates within written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the Companys website.
Consultation with relevant stakeholders The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its mandate, it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders in the business.
During 2016, the committee undertook a comprehensive programme of engagement with a selection of the Companys larger institutional investors and their representative bodies in order to understand their views on a number of proposed changes to the executive directors remuneration arrangements.
Shareholders were given an early opportunity to raise any questions.
In developing these proposed changes the committee was minded to include a number of features, such as bonus deferral, extended holding periods for LTIP awards and increased shareholding guidelines, which are aligned with shareholders interests.
Although the committee does not undertake a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Groups policy on senior management remuneration, members of staff are regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms.
101 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Overview of proposed remuneration policy Cairns policy on executive directors remuneration for 2017 and subsequent financial years is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Groups strategy to deliver value for stakeholders by building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets, whilst offering a competitive package against the market.
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairns directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: Policy Table elements of directors remuneration package Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Base salary Helps recruit and Normally reviewed annually Whilst the committee None retain employees.
with changes taking effect has not set a monetary on 1 January and or when maximum, annual increases Reflects individual otherwise appropriate, will not exceed the level of experience and role.
including when an individual standard increase awarded changes position or to other employees except responsibility.
that more significant increases may be awarded Aim is to provide a at the discretion of the competitive base salary committee in connection relative to the market with: although the committee does not place undue an increase in the scope emphasis on benchmarking and responsibility of data and exercises its own the individuals role: or judgement in determining the individuals pay levels.
development and performance in the role Decision influenced by: following appointment: or role and experience: a re-alignment with average change in market rates.
broader workforce salaries: individual performance: and remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies.
Benefits Helps recruit and Directors are entitled to a Company cars up to a None retain employees.
competitive package of value of 70,000 or, as an benefits.
For UK executives, alternative, an annual car the major elements include allowance of up to 8,771 a company car, permanent may be provided.
Whilst health insurance, private the committee has not set health insurance, death-ina monetary maximum for service benefit and a gym other benefits, they will and fitness allowance.
be in line with the market as determined by the The committee reserves committee.
the right to provide further benefits where this is appropriate in the individuals particular circumstances for example costs associated with relocation as a result of the directors role with the Company.
Executive directors are also eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 102 Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement Bonuses are awarded by Maximum % of salary: 125%.
The measures and targets of annual KPIs and or other reference to performance applicable to the annual bonus objectives linked to the against specific targets scheme and the different Companys strategic goals.
measured over a single weightings ascribed to each of financial year.
them are set annually by the committee in order to ensure they Any amounts awarded are relevant to participants and take to an individual under this account of the most up-to-date arrangement up to 100% business plan and strategy.
of salary are paid out in full shortly after the assessment All, or a significant majority, of the of the performance targets bonus opportunity will normally has been completed.
The be determined by reference to remainder of the bonus will performance against demanding be deferred into an award Group KPIs such as: of shares for a three year exploration and new venture period, or such other period as objectives: determined by the committee.
development and production Annual bonuses may be targets: and subject to clawback, and the HSE.
extent to which deferred Any remaining part of a share awards vest may be directors bonus will normally reduced, where, in the period be based on the achievement of of three years from the end of personal objectives relevant to that the relevant financial year, the individuals role within the business.
committee becomes aware of A payment scale ranging from 0% a material misstatement of the to 100% of the opportunity for Companys financial results different levels of achievement or an error in the calculation against each KPI and or other of performance targets objective is specified by the which, had it been known at committee at the outset of the relevant time, would have eachyear.
reasonably been expected to The committee has discretion to have resulted in a lower award vary the measures and weightings being made.
during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure.
The committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period.
103 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance 2017 Long Term Incentivises executive Cairn is seeking shareholder Normal total maximum % Vesting of awards granted under Incentive Plan directors to deliver longapproval for a new LTIP at of salary: 250%.
the 2017 LTIP will be determined or 2017 LTIP term performance for the the 2017 AGM.
by the growth in Total Shareholder benefit of shareholders, Return TSR of Cairn over a Awards will normally be thereby aligning the interests performance period of at least made annually with vesting of the directors with those three years.
dependent on achievement of the Companys investors.
of performance conditions Awards up to 200% of salary the chosen by the committee core award will be subject to TSR that are measured over a performance measured relative to period of at least three years.
a comparator group selected by the committee, with no more than 25% All awards which vest will vesting at median and 100% for at normally be subject to a least upper quartile performance.
holding period in terms of which the relevant shares In order to focus on exploration will only be released success which leads to a material become exercisable after increase in the share price, once a further period of at least performance for the core award two years has expired from has been fully achieved, an the vesting date.
additional element of up to 50% of salary can be earned if absolute The committee reviews the TSR growth over the same quantum of awards annually, performance period equals or taking into account factors exceeds 100% the kicker award.
such as market rates and overall remuneration.
No part of any award will vest unless the committee is satisfied Awards may be subject that there has been an overall to clawback where, in the satisfactory and sustained period of three years from improvement in the performance the end of the relevant of the Company as a whole over performance period, the the performance period.
committee becomes aware of a material misstatement Although the committees intention of the Companys financial is that the above conditions will be results or an error in the applied to LTIP awards granted calculation of performance in 2017, it may decide to impose conditions which, had it different but equally challenging been known at the relevant conditions in future years.
The time, would have reasonably committee will consult with major been expected to have shareholders prior to making any resulted in a lower vesting such decision and will ensure that being determined.
the vesting of at least 50% of all awards granted under the LTIP continues to be determined by reference to the Companys TSR performance.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 104 Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance 2009 Long Term Incentivises executive It is not proposed that Normal maximum % of Vesting is determined by Incentive Plan directors to deliver superior further awards will be salary: 300% 400% comparing the growth in Total or 2009 LTIP levels of long-term granted to executive including multiplier.
Shareholder Return TSR of performance for the benefit directors under this plan.
Cairn over a performance period Exceptional circumstances of shareholders, thereby of three years from grant with the Awards vest dependent maximum % of salary: 400% aligning the interests of TSR of a comparator group of on achievement of 532% including multiplier.
the directors with those of international oil and gas companies performance conditions the Companys investors.
that is selected by the committee measured over a threeprior to each grant, with 20% vesting year period.
at median, 100% at upper decile On vesting of an award, and on a straight line sliding scale 50% of the shares to which in between.
the holder has become In order to encourage exceptional entitled are released performance, the above condition become exercisable provides that, at upper decile levels, immediately, with the a multiplier of up to 1.33 is applied remaining 50% normally if absolute TSR growth is between being released becoming 50% and 100% or more.
It also exercisable after a further states that no part of any award period of one year.
will vest unless the committee is Awards may be subject satisfied that there has been an to clawback where, in the overall satisfactory and sustained period of three years from improvement in the performance the end of the relevant of the Company as a whole over performance period, the the performance period.
committee becomes aware of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance conditions.
Share Incentive Encourages a broad range The Company established Participation limits are None Plan or SIP of employees to become an HM Revenue and those set by the UK tax long-term shareholders.
Customs approved share authorities from time to incentive plan in April 2010. time.
These limits are It allows the Company to currently as follows: provide eligible employees, Partnership shares: up to including the executive 1,800 per tax year can directors, with some or all be deducted from salary.
of the following benefits: Matching shares: up to partnership shares two matching shares for acquired using every one partnership deductions from salary: share purchased.
matching shares Free shares: up to 3,600 awarded to those worth in each tax year.
employees who purchase partnership shares on the basis of a ratio specified by the Company: and free shares.
Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period.
105 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Pension Rewards sustained The Company operates Company contributes 15% None contribution.
a defined contribution of basic salary on behalf of group personal pension executive directors or pays plan in the UK.
The scheme them a cash equivalent.
is non-contributory and all UK permanent employees, including the executive directors, are eligible to participate.
The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including executive directors.
Where an executive director has an individual personal pension plan or overseas equivalent, the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement.
If an executive directors pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Companys contribution or the balance thereof is paid in the form of additional salary.
Non-executive Helps recruit and Non-executive directors Companys Articles of None directors fees retain high-quality, fees are considered annually Association place a limit experienced individuals.
and are set by the executive on the aggregate annual members of the Board and level of non-executive Reflects time commitment the Chairman taking into directors and Chairmans and role.
account a range of relevant fees currently 900,000. factors including: market practice: time commitment: and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the audit and remuneration committees.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 106 Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Chairmans fees Helps recruit and retain The Chairmans fee is Companys Articles of None the relevant individual.
considered annually Association place a limit and is determined in on the aggregate annual Reflects time commitment.
light of market practice, level of non-executive the time commitment and directors and Chairmans responsibilities associated fees currently 900,000. with the role and other relevant factors.
Expenses incurred in the performance of the Chairmans duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
Notes: 1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2017 is provided on pages 123 and 124.
2 The following differences exist between the Companys above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: Participation in the LTIPs is typically aimed at the executive directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees are eligible to participate in the Employee Share Award Scheme details of which are provided on pages 158 and 159.
Under the Companys defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay.
3 The TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2017 LTIP and 2009 LTIP further details of which, in the latter case, are provided on page 118 were selected by the committee on the basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations.
Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate including replacing it with another organisation.
4 Where a nil-cost option award under the 2009 LTIP or 2017 LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted.
5 The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and where appropriate those areas that the relevant individual can directly influence.
6 The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, the Company has decided that it is currently not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it, although the committee retains the discretion to apply performance conditions to future awards.
Common terms of share awards Awards under any of the Companys discretionary share plans referred to in this report may: be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in other such form that the committee determines has the same economic effect: have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the committee if an event occurs which causes the committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under the award that vest up to the time of vesting or, where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: be settled in cash at the committees discretion: and be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
Legacy awards The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 15 May 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
107 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy Cairns pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives.
In the chart below, we show the make-up of remuneration of the current executive directors in 2017 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
3,000,000 2,775,035 2,500,000 50% 1,816,148 1,809,626 2,000,000 34% 1,500,000 50% 1,185,958 26% 29% 34% 1,000,000 675,282 26% 443,932 29% 37% 24% 500,000 100% 37% 24% 100% 0   Chief Executive CFO Fixed Elements Annual Variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: The minimum columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the executive directors are entitled in 2017 irrespective of performance levels, namely base salary at current rates, benefits using the details set out in the 2016 single-figure table provided on page 112 and pension calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary.
The on-target scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation.
In addition to the fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout vesting under the annual bonus scheme and 2017 LTIP.
Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an on-target amount, the assumed levels for this scenario are: in the case of the LTIP, for on-target performance the kicker award would not vest.
Therefore the illustration is based on 55% vesting of the core award of 200% of salary.
This vesting level is broadly equal to the percentage applied in determining the grant date fair value of an LTIP award for the purposes of the Companys share-based payment charge: and in the case of the annual bonus, a payout of 75% of maximum opportunity being the approximate average of such payouts for all executive directors over the five years up to and including 2016.
The maximum columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full, namely an annual bonus payment of 125% of salary with 100% of salary paid in cash and the balance delivered in the form of a deferred share award and 100% vesting of LTIP awards to be granted in 2017 over shares worth 250% of salary.
For the purposes of valuing the LTIP and deferred bonus awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart.
Recruitment policy Base salaries Salaries for any new director hires including internal promotions will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn.
Legal fees and other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
Variable pay For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Companys existing policy.
The committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer.
The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone.
Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 108 Chairman and non-executive directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account a range of relevant factors including market practice, time commitment and the responsibilities associated with the role.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Executive directors service contracts The current executive directors service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Remuneration Salary, pension and benefits.
Company car or cash allowance.
Private health insurance for director and dependants.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in deferred bonus, LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules.
1 Notice period 12 months notice by the director or by the Company.
Termination payment See separate disclosure below.
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Note: 1 The committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The executive directors service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Exit payment policy for executive directors Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individuals service contract for the notice period.
Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
The committee will have the authority to settle legal claims against the Group e. g. for unfair dismissal, discrimination or whistle blowing that arise on termination.
The committee may also authorise the provision of outplacement services and pay reasonable legal expenses associated with the termination.
On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year.
The bonus paid would reflect the Companys and the individuals performance during that period.
However, any bonus payable in cash and or share awards as determined by the committee on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year.
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested share awards granted pursuant to the Companys deferred bonus arrangements will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, retirement with the agreement of the Company, or in any other circumstances determined by the committee other than where an individual has been summarily dismissed in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will normally continue to vest at the end of the original vesting period.
The committee may determine that a deferred bonus award should vest before the normal time in certain circumstances, for example where an individual has died.
The committee also has the discretion to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver.
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive arrangements under the 2009 LTIP and 2017 LTIP will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or, for 2009 LTIP awards, redundancy, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will normally continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
The committee may determine that an award should vest before the normal time in certain circumstances, for example where an individual has died.
It is the remuneration committees normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
Any holding period attached to the share awards would normally continue to apply.
If an executive director ceases employment, 2017 LTIP awards subject to a holding period will normally be released or if structured as nil-cost options, become exercisable on the original timescales.
These awards will, however, lapse where cessation occurs due to the individuals gross misconduct, or if the committee considers it appropriate, the individuals bankruptcy.
The committee has the discretion to accelerate the release of shares in certain circumstances, for example death.
For 2009 LTIP awards subject to a holding period at the time an executive director ceases employment, awards will normally be released on cessation of employment.
109 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice.
It was not included in the contract of the CFO that was entered into on his appointment in 2014, and will not be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board: however, it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive.
In the event of a change of control or winding up of the Company, treatment of share awards will be in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control.
If there is a demerger or special dividend, the committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis as for a change of control.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid.
These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Companys directors.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Companys share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2016 and explains how Cairns approved Directors Remuneration Policy that was in force during that period was implemented.
It also summarises how the new Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 101 to 110 will be applied in 2017, assuming it is approved by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2017.
In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the above noted AGM.
The Companys auditors are required to report to Cairns shareholders on the auditable parts of this Annual Report on Remuneration which have been highlighted as such below and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
Operation of the remuneration committee during 2016 Members of the remuneration committee The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows: M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the committee : Iain McLaren: Ian Tyler: and Peter Kallos.
The individuals who served on the committee, each of whom is an independent non-executive director of the Company, had no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Biographical information on the committee members is shown on pages 76 and 77 and details of attendance at the committees meetings during 2016 are shown on pages 86 and 98.
Internal assistance provided to the committee The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals.
The Chief Executive is not involved in any discussions in respect of his own remuneration.
During the year, the committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 110 External assistance provided to the committee As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.
During the year, it received the following assistance: Assistance provided to Other services provided to 1 Adviser the committee during 2016 Fees for committee assistance in 2016 the Company during 2016 2,3 New Bridge Street Appointed by the committee 54,797 None to give periodic advice on various aspects of the directors remuneration packages.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and provided support on a number of miscellaneous remuneration related projects including the formulation of the new policy.
3 Deloitte LLP Appointed by the Companys 74,943 Provided advice on various management team but provided aspects of remuneration assistance to the committee practice across the Group.
in relation to the design, communication and implementation of the new policy.
Ernst & Young LLP Appointed by the Company N A no advice provided Internal auditors of the Company to carry out an independent to the committee throughout the year.
verification of its achievement against performance conditions applicable to the Companys LTIPs and share option schemes.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to 28,019 General legal services to the carry out regular calculations in Group throughout the year.
relation to the LTIP performance conditions.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Notes: 1 The bases for charging the fees set out in the table were agreed by the committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter.
2 New Bridge Street is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc.
3 Both New Bridge Street and Deloitte LLP are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
4 The committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on a continuous basis.
Statement of shareholder voting at general meetings The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting s at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration Policy: Number of Date of general votes For and Number of Total number Number of 1 Description of resolution meeting Discretionary % of votes cast votes Against % of votes cast of votes cast votes Withheld To approve the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report 12 May 2016 423,241,645 98.80% 5,138,296 1.20% 428,379,941 26,717,122 To approve Directors Remuneration Policy 15 May 2014 379,512,480 98.06% 7,495,533 1.94% 387,008,013 1,045,923 Note: 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and gave due consideration to any concerns raised by investors who did not support the resolutions.
Payments to past directors during 2016 audited Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014 and subsequently ceased employment with the Group on 17 October 2014.
As explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014, both of these individuals were treated as good leavers for the purposes of the Companys incentive schemes and were, therefore, allowed to retain their outstanding awards under the 2009 LTIP subject to time pro-rating.
Details of these awards that vested and or were exercised during 2016 have been included in the relevant sections of this part of the report.
No other payments were made to past directors during the year to 31 December 2016.
111 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Single total figure table for 2016 audited The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories.
Long-Term Total Salary Benefits Pension SIP Bonus Incentive Remuneration Executive directors Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance Fixed Performance Financial Salary element Long-term element 1 2 3 4 5 year and fees Benefits Pension SIP subtotal Bonus incentives subtotal Total remuneration Directors Simon Thomson 2016 554,390 31,358 83,159 7,200 676,107 444,399 961,095 1,405,494 2,081,601 2015 546,197 29,217 81,930 7,200 664,544 409,648 217,975 627,623 1,292,167 James Smith 2016 360,579 25,119 54,087 7,196 446,981 283,055 283,055 730,036 2015 355,250 27,840 53,288 7,200 443,578 266,438 266,438 710,016 Notes: 1 Taxable benefits available to the executive directors during 2016 were a company car car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and a gym and fitness allowance.
This package of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2015.
2 Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the executive directors during 2016 are set out on page 114.
3 This column shows the face value at date of award of matching and free shares provided to the executive directors under the SIP during the relevant period.
Further details on the way in which the SIP was operated during 2016 are set out on page 121.
4 This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question.
Further information in relation to the annual bonus scheme for 2016 is provided on pages 114 to 117.
5 This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question.
Further details of the LTIPs operation during 2016 are provided on pages 117 to 121.
6 Following the end of the year to 31 December 2016, the committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Companys remuneration policy.
The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances.
In addition, a further annual fee of 10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively.
2 The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
3 Keith Lough and Peter Kallos were appointed as directors on 14 May 2015 and 1 September 2015 respectively.
Their fees for 2015 reflect the period from those dates to the year end.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 112 TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay Introduction The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a 100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index over the last eight years.
These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that: Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2016: and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Cairn.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive during the same eightyearperiod.
Performance graph comparison of eight-year cumulative TSR on an investment of 100 350 FTSE 250 300 FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 250 Cairn Energy 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 FTSE250 Cairn FTSE350 Oil & Gas Total remuneration of Chief Executive during the same eight-year period Annual variable element Long term incentive vesting Total remuneration award rates for Chief Executive rates for Chief Executive 1 Financial year Chief Executive of Chief Executive as % of max.
opportunity as % of original award level 2016 Simon Thomson 2,081,601 80.2% 81.7% 2015 Simon Thomson 1,292,167 75% 23.4% 2014 Simon Thomson 1,073,425 78.5% 0% 2013 Simon Thomson 962,765 63% 0% 2012 Simon Thomson 1,018,570 86% 0% 2011 Simon Thomson 3,405,719 82% 121% 2 2011 Sir Bill Gammell 4,053,822 N A 106% 2010 Sir Bill Gammell 7,302,533 58% 113% 2009 Sir Bill Gammell 962,757 54% 0% Notes: 1 The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 112.
2 Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director with effect from that date.
Sir Bill Gammells total remuneration for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011.
However, during the year to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year 770,000 and a cash bonus under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme 625,000.
113 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Percentage annual change in Chief Executives remuneration elements compared to all Group employees The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executives 2016 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2015 and compares it to the average percentage change for all the Groups employees in respect of that same period.
% change in % change in % change in base salary taxable benefits annual bonus 1 Chief Executive 1.50% 7.33% 8.48% 2 All Group employees 1.92% 0.01% 14.83% Notes: 1 The above increase in the Chief Executives taxable benefits is largely attributable to a rise in the costs of his company car provision for 2016.
2 The standard level of salary increase across the Group in 2016 was 1.5%.
However, a small number of individuals received higher percentage increases which raised the average for all employees to 1.92%.
Executive directors base salaries during 2016 Based on a review carried out in December 2015, the following salary increases for executive directors became effective on 1 January 2016: 2016 Annual salary details Annual salary as at % increase with effect from Job title 31 December 2015 Annual salary as at 1 January 2016 1 January 2016 Current directors Simon Thomson Chief Executive 546,197 554,390 1.5% James Smith CFO 355,250 360,579 1.5% The increases shown in the above table for both Simon Thomson and James Smith were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees on 1 January 2016.
Executive directors pension provision during 2016 audited As highlighted in the Directors Remuneration Policy described on pages 101 to 110, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives on behalf of all qualifying employees.
The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Companys pension arrangements.
James Smith is a member of the Company scheme and, during the year, received Company contributions up to his statutory annual allowance.
The balance of his 15% of basic salary entitlement was paid as additional salary.
During the year, Simon Thomson received an amount equal to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary as his pension arrangements have already reached the relevant lifetime limit.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions additional salary that were paid to the executive directors during 2016 are set out in the pension column of the single total figure table on page 112.
Annual bonus 2016 structure and outcome audited During 2016, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and executive directors.
The maximum level of bonus award for executive directors and certain PDMRs for 2016 was 100% of annual salary as at date of award.
For all participants other than the executive directors, 2016 bonus awards were based on individual, project-based and Company performance measures.
Individual and project-based performance was measured through the Companys performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs.
As highlighted in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, 90% of each executive directors bonus opportunity for 2016 was determined by reference to the extent to which certain Group KPIs were achieved, with the remaining 10% being dependent on the satisfaction of personal objectives.
Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and achievement levels is set out below.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 114 2016 annual cash bonus scheme Group KPI performance conditions 90% weighting and achievement levels KPI measures and performance achieved in 2016 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of allocated proportion Purpose 2016 KPI Measurement 2016 performance of maximum opportunity Deliver exploration and appraisal success Grow the reserves Progress the Senegal 2C resource valuation: Four wells successfully drilled 24% and resources base SNE discovery through 3C 1C ratio: and and evaluated on the SNE field to provide a basis the prudent investment Cumulative E&A for a cost within the original three for future growth.
of capital funds, fide-risking investment divided well budget: the path to commerciality by the 2C resources Net resources upgraded from in a cost-effective and US$ bbl.
155.1 mmboe to 201.4 mmboe timely manner.
at year-end: P10 P90 gross resources ratio narrowed: and E&A investment level at 21.75% US$4 bbl.
Discover commercial Invest E&A funds within Bellatrix-1 exploration and appraisal 5% hydrocarbons.
budgetary guidance well discovered gas in shallower to add new volumes horizons: and at industry-leading Laverda exploration well finding costs.
encountered 13ft net oil pay in a single Tay sand with recoverable P50 volumes estimated at 2-3 mmbbls.
Portfolio management Active portfolio Develop an inventory Secure or mature four or Awarded seven blocks, including 16% 10% management.
of exploration and more new independent two as operator, in the Norwegian appraisal opportunities, opportunities from 2016 Licence Round: including prospects within or outwith the Farm-in to the Aurelia prospect in and leads which meet portfolio that meet the the Barents Sea.
The well failed on Cairns technical and businesss investment reservoir quality and hydrocarbon commercial criteria criteria.
type: and and can provide drilling Award of one licence option in opportunities for the 2015 Atlantic Margin Oil and Gas period 2017 onwards.
Exploration Licensing Round in the Porcupine Basin, offshore Ireland.
115 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued 2016 annual cash bonus scheme Group KPI performance conditions 90% weighting and achievement levels continued KPI measures and performance achieved in 2016 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of allocated proportion Purpose 2016 KPI Measurement 2016 performance of maximum opportunity Deliver operational excellence Deliver operational Deliver all operated and Projects and products Four wells successfully drilled 20% 17.55% excellence in all non-operated E&A projects delivered to the quality and evaluated on the SNE field 2016 activities.
on schedule and budget, required, on schedule for the original budgeted price with full data recovery.
of three: Sangomar-Rufisque 3D seismic processing on schedule for delivery in Q1 2017: Boujdour Maritime final interpreted volume for the 2 merged 7,000km completed: and Final interpreted volumes for the Horda 3D in Norway and the West of Kraken 3D in the UK.
Progress North Sea Ensure projects remain Kraken development remains on development projects, within capital guidance schedule with first oil anticipated on time and budget.
and first oil schedule in H1 2017.
The latest capex remains within base estimate is US$300 million case estimates with or over 10% lower than the key milestones met.
sanction estimate: Key Kraken milestones set for 2016 have been accomplished including the completion of four producer and four injector wells: full subsea installation: the Safety Case was approved: and the FPSO left Singapore for UK waters: Operator is targeting first oil in H2 2017 on Catcher: Significant progress has been made on Catcher including the completion of eight wells, with further drilling ongoing.
Substantial completion of the offshore installation and the FPSO hull has been delivered and fabrication of the topside modules is progressing well: and Provided input and assurance to Operator on concept selection decision on Skarfjell.
Maintain licence to operate including HSE performance Deliver value in Minimise injuries and TRIR of less than 2.0 TRIR of 1.05: and 15% 11.6% a safe, secure and environmental incidents TRI million hours: and Approximately 1 bbl of oil was environmentally and in 2016 operated activities: Oil spills to the released to the environment socially responsible Total Recordable Injury environment.
during testing of SNE appraisal manner.
Rate TRIR target wells in Senegal.
of less than 2.0 TRI million hours.
No oil spills to the environment.
Achieve targets for HSE Progress against Improvements made to the leading performance HSE LPIs: and CRMS with revision of CR indicators LPIs linked Further embedding policies, emergency and to elements of the HSE of HSE culture business continuity plans culture framework.
and travel risk assessments, security and support: OSPAR reverification completed without issue: and Work ongoing on HR People Management Manual and roll out of management training.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 116 2016 annual cash bonus scheme Group KPI performance conditions 90% weighting and achievement levels continued KPI measures and performance achieved in 2016 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of allocated proportion Purpose 2016 KPI Measurement 2016 performance of maximum opportunity Deliver a sustainable business maintain liquid reserves Maintain a self-funding Maintain liquid reserves Development of a Funding headroom cushion 20% 18% business plan.
including undrawn funding strategy to maintained at all times: and committed banking ensure ability to execute Significant cost reductions or facilities to meet planned value-generative plan, deferrals achieved from original funding commitments maintaining liquid 2016 work programme will allow plus a cushion at all times.
reserves to meet enlarged drilling programme planned commitments, and pursuit of new venture whilst retaining a opportunities to be fully funded.
Make tangible progress Milestones in the Statement of claim submitted on Cairn India Limited CIL arbitration including on schedule: shares freeze by progress filing of the Statement Indias statement of defence of action under the of Claim and Indias submitted in February 2017: and UK-India Investment Treaty.
filing of its Statement Agreement of Indian tax office in of Defence.
December 2016 that dividends are not restricted.
Totals 100% 78.9% 2016 annual cash bonus scheme individual performance conditions 10% weighting and achievement levels In early 2016, an external third party provider carried out a 360 degree review of each executive director.
The personal objectives for each executive director for the year were developed from the personal development plans which were prepared following the conclusion of the review.
In summary, these objectives related to a mixture of professional development, communication and leadership skills relating to the delivery of the key strategic targets of the business for the year.
Performance against the above objectives was assessed in early 2017 by means of interviews of the participants in the original 360 degree review.
The report and recommendations were carefully considered by the committee, following which it determined that they had been achieved at a level of 91.5% in the case of Simon Thomson and 74.9% in the case of James Smith.
2016 annual cash bonus scheme overview of awards and actual payments made The application of the outturn from the above performance condition assessments resulted in the following bonuses becoming payable to Simon Thomson and James Smith: Simon Thomson James Smith Group KPI measures Individual conditions Group KPI measures Individual conditions Award elements Weighting as % of salary 90% 10% 90% 10% x Achievement level 78.90% 91.50% 78.90% 74.90% Award as % of salary 71.01% 9.15% 71.01% 7.49% Total award as % of salary 80.16% 78.50% as an amount 444,399 283,055 The remuneration committee considered that the above final award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year.
Long-term incentives during 2016 Introduction During the year to 31 December 2016, the executive directors participated in the Companys 2009 LTIP, which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2009.
The 2009 LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
117 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives during 2016 continued Introduction continued In the case of all awards under the 2009 LTIP including those granted during 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ranking table.
The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest Below median 0% Median 20% Upper decile i. e. top 10% 100% Between median and upper decile 20%100% on a straight line basis A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all 2009 LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2016 is set out on pages 120 and 121.
In order to ensure that the 2009 LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his her award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period 1 50% or less 1.33 100% or more 11.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100% However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award under the 2009 LTIP will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
In addition, and as noted in the Directors Remuneration Policy, 2009 LTIP awards are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics which, had it been known at the relevant time, would have reasonably been expected to have resulted in such lower vesting being determined.
On any vesting of an award under the 2009 LTIP, 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released or become exercisable immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released or becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
LTIP awards granted during 2016 audited On 16 March 2016, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to executive directors: Face value 000 of... % of shares over which award... max.
of shares over originally granted... shares over shares to vest if all Vesting Basis of Share price which award that vest at which award performance determined by 3 4 5 Type of award award granted at date of grant originally granted threshold originally granted measures met performance over Directors Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 3 x base 1.9407 856,994 20% 1,663 2,212 salary of 554,390 3 years until 15 March 2019 James Smith Nil-cost option 3 x base 1.9407 557,395 20% 1,082 1,439 salary of 360,579 Notes: 1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2016 are provided above.
2 No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
3 This figure represents the average of the closing mid-market prices of a share in the Company over the three dealing days preceding the date of grant.
The actual closing price on 16 March 2015 was 2.045.
4 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the share price at date of grant.
5 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 133% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject and multiplying the result by the share price at date of grant.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 118 LTIP awards vesting during the year audited On 19 March 2016, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the 2009 LTIP on 20 March 2013 to various participants including current and former executive directors came to an end.
Thereafter, the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance conditions.
The results of this assessment, which was completed on 22 March 2016, can be summarised as follows: Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 20132016 % of award vested Relative TSR performance 100% Cairns TSR over the period placed 81.68% against a comparator group of it between the 3rd and 4th ranked 18 companies with the opportunity companies in the comparator for additional multiplier of up to group.
After careful consideration 1.33 to be applied for upper decile of a variety of factors, the absolute TSR performance.
committee also concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in the overall performance of the Company over the three years in question.
Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 118.
2 At various points in the period 20 March 2013 to 19 March 2016, the committee was required to determine in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in place at that time the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions.
No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period.
3 The TSR calculations used to inform the committees determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
The following table shows, for each current and former director, details of the 2009 LTIP awards that vested during the year: No.
of shares that % of award to vested after vest as per taking account of No.
of shares over performance any time which award condition pro-rating Value of 1 2 Type of award Date of grant originally granted Date of vesting assessment requirements shares vesting 3 Current director Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 20 March 2013 565,732 22 March 2016 81.68% 462,065 961,095 Former directors 4 Jann Brown Nil-cost option 20 March 2013 460,129 22 March 2016 81.68% 197,850 411,528 4 Dr Mike Watts Nil-cost option 20 March 2013 500,000 22 March 2016 81.68% 214,994 447,188 Notes: 1 On the vesting of a 2009 LTIP award held by a current employee or executive director of the Group, 50% of the shares to which the holder has become entitled are available for immediate exercise, with the remaining 50% normally becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
2 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares that vested by 2.08, being the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day such vesting occurred.
In the case of current directors, this value has been included in the single figure total for 2016.
3 James Smith was not employed by the Group in 2013 and was not, therefore, granted an LTIP award during that period.
4 As explained on page 111, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were categorised as good leavers for the purposes of the 2009 LTIP rules with the result that their awards granted in 2013 vested at the same time as those held by all other participants.
However, a pro-rata reduction was applied to the number of shares that vested in respect of these individuals awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period that they were employed by the Group.
LTIP awards exercised during 2016 audited Details of vested LTIP awards which are in the form of nil-cost options that were exercised by current and former directors during the year to 31 December 2016 are as follows: Number of ordinary shares Market value of acquired on ordinary shares at Date of grant Date of vesting Date of exercise exercise Exercise price date of exercise Gain on exercise Current director Simon Thomson 14 June 2012 17 June 2015 17 June 2016 60,148 Nil 1.849 111,184 20 March 2013 22 March 2016 22 March 2016 231,032 Nil 2.089 482,686 Former director Jann Brown 14 June 2012 17 June 2015 17 March 2016 79,190 Nil 1.982 156,993 20 March 2013 22 March 2016 24 March 2016 197,850 Nil 2.058 407,195 Dr Mike Watts 20 March 2013 22 March 2016 30 March 2016 214,994 Nil 2.030 436,438 119 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued LTIP other awards held by executive directors during the year For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the 2009 LTIP during 2016, set out below are details of the other unvested entitlements under the plan that were held by current executive directors during the year: Face value 000 of... % of shares over which No.
of shares award over which originally... shares over... max.
of Vesting determined Share price award granted that which award shares to vest if all by performance Basis of award at date of originally vest at originally performance over three years 2 3 4 Date of grant Type of award granted grant granted threshold granted measures met until... Directors Simon Thomson 19 March 2014 Nil-cost option 3 x base 1.682 959,794 20% 1,614 2,147 18 March 2017 salary of 538,125 19 March 2015 Nil-cost option 3 x base 1.868 877,190 20% 1,639 2,179 18 March 2018 salary of 546,197 James Smith 19 March 2014 Nil-cost option 3 x base 1.682 624,256 20% 1,050 1,396 18 March 2017 salary of 350,000 19 March 2015 Nil-cost option 3 x base 1.868 570,529 20% 1,066 1,417 18 March 2018 salary of 355,250 Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 118.
2 In the case of an award granted in 2014, this figure represents the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding its date of grant.
For a 2015 award, it is the average of such prices over the thirty days preceding the date of grant.
3 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the appropriate share price at date of grant.
4 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 1.33% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject and multiplying the result by the appropriate share price at date of grant.
Comparator group companies applicable to LTIP awards The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the 2009 LTIP to executive directors that were outstanding during 2016.
Participation of executive directors in all-employee share schemes during 2016 Introduction In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs approved SIP in April 2010.
The SIP provides eligible employees, including the executive directors, with the following benefits: Partnership shares employees can authorise deductions of up to 1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares on their behalf.
Matching shares the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased.
For the tax year 2016 2017, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2017 2018.
Free shares employees can be given up to 3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year.
On 14 April 2016, an award of free shares was made to employees, including to the executive directors.
As the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms.
Details of executive directors SIP participation in 2016 Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Free shares awarded on Partnership shares Matching shares awarded on 6 May Total SIP Total SIP shares 14 April 2016 at a awarded on 6 May 2016 at a price of shares held at held at 1 January price of 2.043 per 2016 at a price of 2.0575 per share 31 December 2016 2016 share 2.0575 per share Directors Simon Thomson 16,049 1,762 875 1,750 20,436 James Smith 7,757 1,762 874 1,748 12,141 The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors report on page 125.
Shareholding guidelines for directors audited The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to a specified percentage of base salary.
The level of this target holding was recently reviewed by the committee as part of the process surrounding the formulation of the new Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 101 to 110: it was agreed that, subject to this new policy receiving shareholder approval, the level would be increased from 100% of salary to 200% of salary.
In order to facilitate the achievement of the above requirement, the share ownership policy also provides that, until the necessary holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
121 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Shareholding guidelines for directors audited continued The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2016.
It also highlights the fact that, on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive, but, in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by James Smith.
However, James Smith does intend to build up his holding over time in accordance with the committees policy and it is expected that he will reach the necessary levels within a period of three to five years from joining the Group.
Shares held Awards over shares under the LTIP Ordinary shares Value of holding subject to vested Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Total holding of as a % of salary on but unexercised subject to Total interest in 2 3 4 5 6 Ordinary shares held in the SIP ordinary shares 1 January 2017 awards unvested awards ordinary shares Executive directors Simon Thomson 710,784 20,436 731,220 249% 231,033 2,693,978 3,656,231 James Smith 55,096 12,141 67,237 35% 1,752,180 1,819,417 Non-executive directors Ian Tyler Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878 Alexander Berger 40,008 40,008 40,008 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 7,000 7,000 7,000 Keith Lough Peter Kallos 892,778 32,577 925,355 231,033 4,446,158 5,602,546 Notes: 1 Details of the Companys share ownership policy for executive directors are set out above.
2 Includes shares held by connected persons.
3 Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified holding period of up to five years.
The receipt of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
4 Share price used is the average share price over the year to 31 December 2016.
5 This column shows all vested but unexercised awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2016.
6 This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2016 i. e. including those granted during the year.
Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 118.
Dilution of share capital pursuant to share plans during 2016 In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Companys discretionary share plans which includes both the LTIPs and the share option award schemes used to incentivise less senior employees cannot exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Companys employee share schemes whether discretionary or otherwise cannot exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.
As a result, the SIP does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
Board appointments with other companies during 2016 The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous.
The executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
Details of the non-executive positions with other companies that were held by Cairns executive directors during 2016, and the fees that were payable, are as follows: Fees received for the year Position held to 31 December 2016 Current directors Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Grahams The Family Dairy Limited 35,000 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 122 Relative importance of spend on pay Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2016.
Financial Year Financial Year 2015 2016 % change Employee costs US$m 32.6 30.4 6.7 % 1 Distributions US$m 0 0 0% Note: 1 For the purposes of the above table, Distributions include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the new Directors Remuneration Policy described on pages 101 to 110 during 2017, assuming it is approved by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2017.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2017 Base salary Both of the executive directors received a 1% increase in base salary on 1 January 2017 this was in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date.
After applying this increase, details of the base salaries payable to both the current executive directors for the year to 31 December 2017 are as follows: Simon Thomson, Chief Executive 559,934: and James Smith, CFO 364,185.
Benefits Executive directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2016.
Annual bonus In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 125% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over 2017.
However, any bonus awarded to an executive director in excess of 100% of salary will be deferred into Cairn shares for a period of three years.
90% of the Chief Executives and CFOs 2017 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs described below with details of the weightings specified in brackets : Deliver exploration and appraisal success 25% : Safely, cost effectively and successfully drill, evaluate and flow test appraisal wells on the SNE field in Senegal to allow preparation of the Evaluation Report and update the estimate of resources and capital required to develop the field in a timely manner.
Efficiently discover commercial quantities of hydrocarbons through maturation and drilling of select exploration and appraisal wells across the portfolio.
Measured by: new commercial discoveries based on 2C resources found: cumulative net volumes found versus Group target: and finding efficiency expressed in US$ bbl versus industry benchmarks.
Portfolio optimisation and replenishment 16% : Develop an inventory and timeline of exploration and appraisal opportunities which meet Cairns technical and commercial criteria.
Measured by increasing the prospect inventory by securing or maturing new independent opportunities from within or outwith the Companys portfolio.
Deliver operational excellence 24% : Successfully progress development and production projects against key milestones including, as appropriate, capex, opex and sales volume targets.
Maintain licence to operate 20% : Achieve leading HSSE indicators linked to four categories within the Groups Corporate Responsibility Management System Business Relationships: Society and Communities: People: and the Environment.
Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in line with IOGP targets and guidelines.
Investing in people and systems.
Manage balance sheet strength 15% Develop and implement a funding strategy that allows a value generative plan to be executed and ensures a minimum headroom cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
Make tangible progress under the UK-India bilateral treaty arbitration.
The balance 10% of the executive directors bonuses for 2017 will be determined by reference to the achievement of personal objectives that are relevant to each individuals role within the business.
The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2017 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above.
However, appropriate disclosure of group KPIs and group performance in relation to the 2017 bonus scheme will be included in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
123 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Implementation during 2017 LTIP It is intended that, following the Companys 2017 AGM, the executive directors will be granted awards pursuant to the rules of the new 2017 LTIP.
These awards will, in aggregate, be over shares worth 250% of salary and will take the following forms: A core award over shares worth 200% of salary the vesting of which will be dependent on relative TSR performance over a three year period versus a comparator group of peer companies with 25% vesting for a median ranking rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance : and A kicker award over shares worth 50% of salary vesting will be conditional on achieving both an upper quartile ranking in the comparator group and absolute TSR growth over the performance period of at least 100%.
All shares that vest in relation to an award whether core or kicker will be subject to an additional two year holding period.
The comparator group against which the relative performance conditions are assessed will be the same as the one used for the purposes of the LTIP grants made in 2016 except that it will exclude Petroceltic International plc, who delisted during 2016, and will include Seplat Petroleum Development Company plc, a FTSE-listed oil company of similar size to Cairn.
SIP Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pay them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-executive directors fees For 2017, both the annual non-executive director fee and the additional annual fee for chairing the audit and or remuneration committees remain unchanged at 74,900 and 10,000 respectively.
Chairmans fees The annual Chairmans fee for 2017 has been increased from 160,000 to 175,000.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC Chair of the Remuneration Committee Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 124
