Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT A new, simplified, remuneration policy which will continue to incentivise our executive team to deliver market leading levels of performance.
Gerry Murphy, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The new policy has been designed to address shareholders ANNUAL STATEMENT concerns regarding the Matching Share Plan MSP and Dear Shareholder, the complexity of the current remuneration arrangements, Having succeeded Ian Henderson as Chairman of the and also to provide variable remuneration which can continue Remuneration Committee at the 2016 AGM, I am pleased to to incentivise our executive team to deliver market-leading present both the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016 and levels of performance.
the new Directors remuneration policy.
In summary, the new policy: The Committees key objectives, as in previous years, are Radically simplifies our long-term incentives by removing to ensure that Capcos executive team is appropriately the exceptional award facility and combining the three incentivised by remuneration arrangements that are fully long-term incentive and matching schemes into a single aligned with the Companys strategy of providing long-term Performance Share Plan PSP : market-leading returns to shareholders.
Management incentives are linked to the Key Performance Indicators Reduces the maximum level of long-term incentive award KPIs which the Company uses to measure the creation including exceptional awards which could be granted in and growth of value for shareholders.
These KPIs are any one year from 450 per cent to 350 per cent of salary: described in full on page 13.
Provides a similar level of long-term incentive opportunity Performance in 2016 and variable remuneration outcomes as the actual historical average: Since its establishment in 2010, Capco has delivered TSR Introduces a two-year post-vesting holding period and performance which ranks in the top quartile when compared to clawbackfor all long-term incentive awards: and its listed peers.
However, in 2016 external market circumstances have impacted Capcos financial performance and therefore the Brings pension contributions for future Executive Directors variable remuneration outcomes for our executive team.
The in line with the levels available for other employees at financial elements of the bonus paid out at6.67 per cent of Capco Head Office including Earls Court Properties maximum, reflecting achievement of the EPS target but NAV and Covent Garden.
and TPR results which were below threshold.
In addition, the long-term incentive awards which would have vested in 2017 No changes have been made to the policy regarding base salary, based on TSR and TR performance up to the end of 2016 are benefits or annual bonus.
Fifty per cent of any bonus earned expected to lapse as neither the TSR or TR targets are expected will continue to be deferred into shares for three years.
These outcomes demonstrate that the performance The key feature of this new policy is the change to the longmeasures are effective in aligning executive remuneration term incentive arrangements.
The current long-term incentives with shareholder returns.
comprise three schemes: the 2010 Performance Share Plan Existing PSP, the MSP and the Co-Investment Plan CIP.
Approval of the new Directors Remuneration Policy The Committee has taken account of shareholder feedback and Following the review of remuneration conducted in 2015 believes that these arrangements are too complex.
Therefore, and 2016, and extensive shareholder consultation covering under the new policy, these three schemes will be replaced over 80 per cent of the share register, the Remuneration with a single annual award under a new PSP.
Shareholders will Committee has developed a new remuneration policy which be asked to approve the PSP at Capcos 2017 AGM and a full will be submitted for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
description of the plan will be included in the notice of meeting.
I would like to thank those shareholders who provided feedback on the Committees proposals.
70 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Averaged over three years, the current policy allowed the change to the operation of benefits, pension and annual bonus when Committee to grant an annual long-term incentive award of up to compared to prior years.
In anticipation of the introduction of the 450 per cent of base salary, but in practice the actual historical level new remuneration policy, no long-term incentive awards will be of annual award for the Chief Executive was just under 350 per cent made until after the AGM.
These historical awards have been a key factor in In 2017, following shareholder approval, we intend to make the incentivising our executive team to deliver a market-leading level first grant under the new PSP of 350 per cent of base salary.
Half of of TSR, and the Committee believes it is important that any new this award will be subject to a relative TSR performance condition, long-term incentive plan continues to provide a similar level of whilst the remainder will be subject to a relative TR performance incentive opportunity in order to continue to drive exceptional measure.
Threshold and maximum targets will be set for both the performance for our shareholders.
As a result, under the new PSP, TSR and TR performance measures and are explained below.
the maximum annual award will be 350 per cent of base salary, which is broadly in line with the average award level received by As part of the remuneration review, the Committee considered Executive Directors since Capcos establishment in 2010.
The the appropriate level of challenge for the TSR and TR targets.
The Committee believes that this level of PSP award is appropriate Committee determined that the current threshold performance because it does not increase quantum above historical levels, target for both the TSR and TR performance measures, under which provides a reduction in the level of long-term incentive award that 33 per cent of an award will vest for median performance, and the can be made in any one year, removes the exceptional award facility current maximum TSR target of median 4 per cent per annum and replaces the matching schemes all with a single annual award.
remained appropriately challenging, and these will continue to be the threshold TR and TSR targets and maximum TSR targets for Awards made under the PSP will continue to be subject to a relative awards under the new PSP.
TSR performance measure and a relative TR performance measure.
The Committee did consider introducing absolute measures of In reviewing the TR maximum target, the Committee noted performance, but believes that relative measures remain most that the current target of median 2.5 per cent per annum was appropriate as they ensure that management are rewarded for above normal market practice at other companies which use similar outperformance against other property companies rather than for relative metrics.
In addition, current broker forecasts for Capco and changes in market conditions.
the comparator group suggest that the difficulty in achieving the current target of median 2.5 per cent will increase substantially The new policy also incorporates a number of areas of best practice over the next two years as a result of the changing outlook for in corporate governance and strengthens alignment between our the property sector.
Accordingly, for awards granted in 2017, the executives and shareholders.
All awards made under the new PSP Committee intends to set the maximum TR target at median will be subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period, and will 2 per cent per annum.
This target remains above market practice be subject to clawback as well as malus.
Pension contributions for for relative outperformance targets at other property companies, new Executive Directors appointed after the 2017 AGM will be and the Committee believes that it maintains an equivalent level reduced from 24 per cent to 10 per cent of base salary, which is in of challenge to previous years.
However, the Committee will keep line with the contribution level available for employees at Capco this target under review and the remuneration policy provides Head Office including Earls Court Properties and Covent Garden.
flexibility for the Committee to increase this target for future As part of the review, the Committee also considered the base salary awards if market conditions change.
positioning of the Chief Executive.
On Capcos establishment in Appointment of new Chief Financial Officer 2010, the Chief Executives base salary was initially set at the bottom Situl Jobanputra was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the of the market because the management team was untested.
His Company on 1 January 2017 at a base salary of 325,000.
Situls base salary was then frozen for three years and market positioning base salary has been initially positioned at below market rate for worsened.
Thereafter, whilst above market salary increases were equivalent roles, and it will be brought to market levels over time made, these have been insufficient to bring the base salary to the subject to his performance and development in the role.
As a result, Committees desired market positioning and appropriately reflect his base salary will be subject to review by up to 15 per cent in 2019, the contribution and performance of the Chief Executive.
As to recognise the experience gained.
a result, the positioning of the Chief Executives base salary continues to be below the level that the Committee believes to Conclusion be appropriate.
However, in light of current market conditions Capcos current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders and the need to keep fixed costs under control, the Committee at the 2014 AGM held on 2 May 2014.
This year, we are asking has concluded that it would not be justifiable to make a significant shareholders to vote for the resolution regarding the Annual Report increase to the Chief Executives base salary at present.
Accordingly on Remuneration and this Annual Statement, and also to vote for the Committee will only increase his base salary by2.9 per cent, the resolution regarding the new Directors remuneration policy, in line with increases awarded to the rest of the workforce.
and the resolution to approve the new PSP.
The Committee believes that this new remuneration policy achieves our aims to simplify The Remuneration Committee believes that the proposed remuneration whilst providing an appropriate level of incentive remuneration policy will continue to motivate Capcos exceptional to drive future performance.
We look forward to receiving your executive team to drive the future success of the Company, whilst support at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 5 May 2017. achieving the aims of the review to simplify remuneration, reduce complexity, and remove the exceptional award opportunities.
It also introduces elements of best practice such as holding periods, clawbackand reduced pension contributions, which will sit alongside our 300 per cent of base salary shareholding guideline for the Chief Executive, and 200 per cent of base salary shareholding guideline for our executive team.
The Committee believes that these proposals do not represent an increase to remuneration when compared to historical grant levels, and can continue to provide a strong incentive for our executives over the next three-year period.
Gerry Murphy Chairman of Remuneration Committee, 21 February 2017 Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2017 The Committee intends to operate the new remuneration policy Members: in 2017, subject to the new remuneration policy being approved Gerry Murphy Chairman Henry Staunton at the 2017 AGM.
Base salary increases for Executive Directors will Demetra Pinsent Andrew Strang be in line with those for the general workforce, and there will be no www.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued 1.2 Executive Director Policy Table 1.
POLICY REPORT The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors: This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out Purpose and link to strategy Operation Capcos new remuneration policy Base Salary which will take effect from the To provide an appropriately Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis, with any increase 2017 AGM, subject to shareholder competitive base salary, whilst placing normally taking effect from 1 April.
Details of actual emphasis on the performance related remuneration paid, share awards The Committee reviews base salaries with reference to: elements of remuneration.
made, and the approach to other property companies including the constituents of the long-term The Committee believes base salary remuneration for 2017 are set incentive plans comparator group for high-performing experienced out within the Annual Report UK companies of a similar size Executive Directors should be at on Remuneration which starts each Executive Directors performance and contribution during the year least median.
on page 78. scope of each Executive Directors responsibilities changes to the remuneration and overall conditions of other employees 1.1 Remuneration policy When reviewing base salaries, the Committee is mindful of the gearing The key objectives of the effect that increases in base salary will have on the potential total Companys remuneration remuneration of the Executive Directors.
policy are to: Benefits strongly align executive To be appropriately competitive with Benefits will be in line with those offered to some or all employees and shareholder interests: those offered at comparator companies.
and may include private dental and healthcare, life insurance, personal accident cover, travel insurance, income protection and a car allowance, underpin an effective currently paid in cash.
pay-for-performance culture: Other benefits may be introduced from time to time to ensure the support the retention, benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects individual motivation and recruitment circumstances.
For example, Directors may be offered relocation and or of talented people who are expatriate benefits should a Director be required to relocate as a result commercially astute: and of emerging business requirements.
Pension encourage executives to To be appropriately competitive with Capco offers a defined contribution pension scheme.
acquire and retain significant that offered by comparator companies.
Executive Directors may elect to be paid some or all of their entitlement in cash.
The Committee aims to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and variable Annual Bonus remuneration, and between To incentivise and reward performance.
The annual bonus arrangements are reviewed at the start of each variable remuneration based financial year to ensure performance measures and weightings are The Committee selects performance on short-term and longerappropriate and support the business strategy.
measures and targets each year to term performance.
Fixed reinforce the strategic business The Committee reviews performance against the annual bonus targets but has remuneration includes base priorities for the year.
the ability to take into account broader factors and, subject to the 150 per cent of salary, benefits and pension.
salary maximum, may exercise two-way discretion to ensure that the annual bonus The deferral of half of the bonus awarded properly reflects the performance of the Company and each Director.
Variable remuneration includes into shares is designed to further align an annual bonus, half of which executives with shareholders interests.
Adjudication of bonuses will be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
is deferred in shares, and awards 50 per cent of any bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil cost under the Performance Share options for three years under the Performance Share Plan without Plan PSP.
further performance conditions but subject to risk of forfeiture should an Executive Director leave the Company in certain circumstances.
Directors The remuneration policy is may be entitled to be paid dividend equivalents on deferred bonus.
aligned to the strategy and Deferred bonus is subject to malus as described in the notes to this table.
nature of the Company, and Performance Share Plan PSP reflects the importance of total To incentivise and reward long-term Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of shares under the return and the long-term nature outperformance, and help retain PSP, which may be made as awards of shares or nil cost options, at the of Capcos business, rewarding Executive Directors over the discretion of the Committee.
In assessing the outcome of the performance the Executive Directors for longer term.
conditions, the Committee must satisfy itself that the figures are a genuine delivering strong performance reflection of underlying financial performance, and may exercise downwards against the Companys Key discretion when determining the proportion of an award that will vest.
Dividend equivalents may be paid.
Details of each element of The Committee has the discretion in certain circumstances to grant and or remuneration, their operation, settle an award in cash.
In practice this will only be used in exceptional purpose, link to strategy and circumstances for Executive Directors.
performance metrics are set PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback as described in the notes to out in this section.
All Employee Share Schemes The Company does not currently operate any All Employee Share Schemes, however if such a scheme were introduced the Executive Directors would be able to participate on the same terms as other employees.
72 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the The Committee considers individual and Company performance when setting base annual review and will normally be in line with increases awarded salary, as well as the general increase awarded to other employees.
However, the Committee may make additional adjustments in certain circumstances to reflect, for example, an increase in scope or responsibility, development in role, to address an increase in size or complexity of the business, to address a gap in market positioning and or to reward the long-term performance of an individual.
For the purposes of stating a maximum as required by the remuneration regulations, no increase will be applied to an Executive Directors base salary if the resulting base salary would be above the upper quartile base salary for CEOs at companies in the FTSE 350.
Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate in light of N A relevant market practice for the role and individual circumstances.
The cost of all benefits will not normally exceed 10 per cent of base salary, with the exception of any future expatriate and or relocation benefits, which would be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
The maximum contribution is 10 per cent of base salary for any N A Executive Director appointed on or after the 2017 AGM, in line with the level available for other head office and Covent Garden employees.
Executive Directors appointed before the 2017 AGM receive 24 per cent of base salary as a defined contribution.
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is Executives performance is measured relative to challenging one-year targets in 150 per cent of annual salary with a bonus of 75 per cent of salary key financial, operational and strategic measures.
The measures selected and their payable for achieving target levels of performance.
No bonus weightings vary each year according to the strategic priorities.
is payable for below threshold performance.
The payment for At least 75 per cent of the bonus will be measured against financial performance.
threshold performance will not exceed 10 per cent of maximum.
Measures and respective weightings used for the annual bonus for 2016 and Awards are made on a straight-line basis for performance between proposed for next years annual bonus are set out in the Annual Report on threshold and target, and on a separate straight-line basis for Remuneration on pages 80 and 81, and 84. performance between target and maximum.
An explanation of how the performance measures were chosen and how the performance targets are set is given on page 74.
Each year participants may be granted up to 350 per cent of salary PSP awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, and are subject to in awards or nil cost options.
33 per cent of an award vests for threshold performance, with The vesting of awards is subject to continued employment and the Companys full vesting taking place for equalling or exceeding maximum performance over a three-year performance period based: performance conditions and straight-line vesting between 50 per cent on relative Total Return Net Asset Value growth plus dividends : and threshold and maximum.
50 per cent on relative Total Shareholder Return For both measures, performance is measured relative to a comparator group comprising the largest FTSE350 property companies.
The performance measures and weightings which apply to the PSP are reviewed by the Committee annually, and, subject to consultation with shareholders, the Committee has discretion to make changes to the measures, the weightings and or comparator group for future awards to ensure that they remain relevant to the Company strategy and are suitably stretching.
Details of the performance conditions for previous years awards, and those proposed for 2017 awards, are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 82.
In line with HMRC approved limits.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued Committee sets targets it believes to be The current long-term incentive 1.3 Notes to the Policy Table appropriately stretching, but achievable.
performance conditions are summarised Changes to previous Remuneration within the Annual Report on Remuneration Policy Long-term incentives on page 82.
Performance is measured A full explanation of the changes made As mentioned above, the performance relative to a comparator group comprising from the previous remuneration policy is conditions for the PSP currently comprise the largest FTSE350 property companies set out in the letter from the Chairman on two measures: and Capco.
The members of the comparator pages 70 and 71.
The changes made, which group are shown in Figure 4 on page 82. are intended to simplify Capcos executive Three-year relative Total Return remuneration arrangements, are: TR, growth in NAV per share plus In order for any awards to vest, the dividends : and Committee must also satisfy itself that The replacement of the Existing PSP, the TR and TSR figures are a genuine MSP and CIP with a new PSP with a Three-year relative Total Shareholder reflection of underlying financial maximum annual award of 350 per cent Return TSR, increase in price of an performance.
In assessing the extent to of salary: ordinary share plus dividends.
which the performance conditions have The introduction of a two-year postThe Committee believes that these two been met, the Committee consults with its vesting holding period and clawback measures are currently the most appropriate independent remuneration adviser.
The under the PSP: and measures of long-term success for Capco as calculation of the returns is also reviewed long-term relative performance provides by the Companys auditors as appropriate.
The reduction of pension contribution an appropriately objective and relevant The performance targets are set by the rates for future Executive Directors to measure of Capcos success which is strongly Committee following an analysis of internal be in line with the levels available for aligned with shareholders interests.
and external expectations, and are believed other employees at Capco Head Office to be appropriately stretching.
including Earls Court Properties and The Committee believes that NAV growth Covent Garden.
is the most important internal measure of For future awards, the Remuneration success for Capco at this time.
Accordingly, Committee has discretion to change the Performance measurement selection the Committee considered it appropriate to performance measures and weightings.
Annual Bonus Scheme reward NAV performance in both the short However, any such changes would only be and long-term incentive arrangements, Executive Directors may earn bonuses made after consulting with shareholders.
with one-year absolute NAV growth being depending on the Companys financial Discretions used in respect of the annual bonus performance and performance against Under the Annual Bonus Scheme and arrangements and three-year relative individual performance targets designed the PSP the Company has the standard NAV as the main component of three-year to deliver strategic goals.
The current discretions to take appropriate action in Total Return being used in respect of the structure of the annual bonus performance the event of unforeseen events which affect long-term incentives.
NAV is used as a conditions is illustrated within the Annual the schemes such as a variation in share performance measure by over half of Report on Remuneration on page 81.
The capital as well as terminations and on a FTSE350 property companies in their financial performance measures and the change in control as described in the policy.
The importance of each are set out in the table The Committee does not intend to make Companys NAV is based on independent below.
The Remuneration Committee adjustments to the methods by which it external valuations carried out in has discretion to change the performance measures the performance conditions, accordance with RICS Valuation conditions in the annual bonus, but within however, it reserves the discretion to Professional Standards.
the bounds set out in the Remuneration make adjustments in very exceptional Policy Table.
Relative TSR helps align the interests of circumstances.
Shareholders would be Executive Directors with shareholders by The annual financial performance targets given details of any exercise of discretion.
incentivising share price growth and, in are set by the Committee in the first quarter the Committees view, provides an objective of each year following an analysis of external measure of the Companys long-term success.
and internal expectations compiled by the Committees independent adviser.
The Why are the current annual bonus performance measures appropriate for Capco?
Measure Reason Growth in Net Asset Value Considered by the Committee to be the most important driver of value creation for Capco at the present time.
per share Relative Total Property Return Rewards the additional portfolio value created by management over and above any changes in value from tracking the property market as a whole, as measured by the IPD Total Return All Property Index, an external benchmark widely used in the property industry.
Underlying Earnings Per Share Rewards value growth in net rental income as well as the management of financing and other costs.
However, given the current stage of the Companys development, the Committee considers EPS to be less relevant as an indicator of value creation than growth in Net Asset Value per share.
74 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements scenarios, to the extent an overpayment a shareholding in the Company equivalent Payments resulting from existing resulted.
The application of any malus to 200 per cent of base salary, to be achieved arrangements or clawbackis at the discretion of the by retaining at least 50 per cent of any The Committee may make any Remuneration Committee.
vested share awards net of tax or within remuneration payments and payments three years.
The current shareholdings for loss of office including exercising any Remuneration of employees below of the Executive Directors are set out discretions it has relating to such payments the Board on page 86.
The current Chairman is even though they are not in line with the No element of remuneration is operated required to maintain a shareholding in policy set out in this report.
This will apply solely for Executive Directors.
Capco head the Company equivalent to 100 per cent where the entitlement to the payment office including Earls Court Properties and of his base fee, but this would be reviewed arose: i before the 2014 AGM: ii at a Covent Garden employees below the Board on any new appointment.
time when the relevant individual was receive base salary, benefits, annual bonus, not a Director of the Company and, in the 1.4 Performance scenario charts and participate in the PSP.
The pension opinion of the Committee, the payment The potential reward opportunities contribution for new Executive Directors was not in consideration for the individual illustrated in Figure 1 are based on the has been set at the same level as available to becoming a Director of the Company: or policy which will apply in 2017, applied employees at Capco head office including iii under a remuneration policy previously to the base salary at the salary review date, Earls Court Properties and Covent Garden.
approved by the Companys shareholders.
1 April 2017, and provide estimates of the However, there are some differences in For these purposes entitlements arising potential future reward opportunity for operation as set out below: under the Companys current remuneration each Executive Director, and the potential policy as approved by shareholders at the In exceptional circumstances, such as split between the different elements 2014 AGM will be incorporated into this recruitment, long-term incentive awards of remuneration under three different policy, payments includes the Committee may be granted without performance performance scenarios: Below Threshold, satisfying awards of variable remuneration, conditions to participants below Target and Maximum.
and an entitlement under an award over the Board: The Below Threshold scenario includes base shares arises at the time the award is granted.
Employees below the Board are not salary, pension and benefits fixed pay.
No subject to any minimum shareholding Malus and clawback annual bonus or PSP elements are included requirement: and Awards granted under the long-term variable pay.
The Target scenario includes incentive arrangements are subject to malus fixed pay, on target bonus and threshold Incentive awards granted to employees and clawback until the end of the respective vesting of PSP awards.
The Maximum below the Board may not be subject to holding periods.
Deferred bonus awards are scenario includes fixed pay, maximum holding periods, clawback or malus.
subject to malus prior to vesting.
Reasons bonus and full vesting of PSP awards.
For The Venues business has separate for malus and clawback include:in the variable pay, the amounts illustrated are remuneration arrangements appropriate event of gross misconduct of a Director, the normal maximum opportunities.
These comprise salary, in the event of a material misstatement in It should be noted that the PSP awards separate pension arrangements and the audited accounts of the Company for granted in a year do not normally vest until discretionary bonuses.
a period that was wholly or partly before the third anniversary of the date of grant the end of the financial year by reference Shareholding guidelines and are subject to a two-year post-vesting to which any performance condition was The Chief Executive is required to achieve holding period.
The projected values of assessed, or in the event that the assessment a shareholding in the Company equivalent long-term incentives shown here exclude of the satisfaction of any performance to 300 per cent of salary and the other the impact of share price movement and condition was based on error or inaccurate Executive Directors are required to achieve dividends.
In the latter two Figure 1 Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Managing Director and Chief Investment officer 000 000 000 3,736 4,000 4,000 4,000 56% 3,350 56% 3,000 3,000 3,000 2,051 1,902 1,706 55% 2,000 2,000 2,000 37% 37% 24% 24% 1,049 23% 761 23% 36% 1,000 1,000 685 1,000 24% 100% 40% 20% 426 23% 40% 20% 100% 100% 41% 21% 0 Below Target Maximum 0 Below Target Maximum 0 Below Target Maximum Threshold Threshold Threshold Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incentives Salary for Chief Executive assumes a 2.9 per cent increase Salary for Managing Director and Chief Investment officer Salary for Chief Financial officer assumes a 0 per cent on prior year assumes a 2.9 per cent increase on prior year increase on prior year www.
com 75 Directors remuneration report continued 1.5 Approach to recruitment remuneration When hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Element of remuneration Policy on recruitment Maximum opportunity Salary Based on scope and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the N A candidates experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
A new Director may be appointed at a salary which is less than the prevailing market rate but increased over a period to the desired positioning subject to satisfactory performance.
Pension A contribution of up to 10 per cent of salary may be offered, consistent with policy.
Benefits Appropriate benefits will be provided, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role.
Annual Bonus Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme The maximum opportunity on the same basis as existing Executive Directors, pro-rated for proportion of will be 150 per cent of salary, year served.
Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may deem it In exceptional circumstances, appropriate to set different annual bonus performance conditions to the current normal policy table limits may Executive Directors in the first performance year of appointment.
The maximum additional bonus opportunity will be limited to 50 per cent of salary.
Performance Share Plan New Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the long-term incentive The opportunity levels will be scheme set out in the remuneration policy table.
consistent with those disclosed in the table.
A PSP award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a prohibited period.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Capco and its shareholders.
Remuneration may include: An award made in respect of a new appointment to buy out existing incentive awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In such cases the compensatory award would typically be a like-for-like award with similar time-to-vesting, performance conditions and likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
To facilitate such a buyout, the Committee may use an award under a different structure or an additional award under the PSP: A relocation package, should this be required: For an overseas appointment, the Committee will have discretion to offer cost-effective benefits and pension provisions which reflect local market practice and relevant legislation: and In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board, the Company would honour any existing contractual arrangements.
1.6 Service contracts and exit payment policy The service contracts of Executive Directors are approved by the Remuneration Committee and are one-year rolling contracts.
The commencement dates of the current contracts are shown below.
The service contracts may be terminated by either party giving one years notice to the other.
It is the Companys policy that termination payments should not exceed the Directors current salary and benefits for the notice period.
The service contracts may be viewed at the Companys registered office.
Where a Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of his her statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Committee will be entitled to enter into a settlement agreement with the Director.
The Company may pay a Directors legal fees in relation to any settlement agreement.
The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement fees where considered appropriate.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The payment of any annual bonus is subject to the discretion of the Committee, and both the cash and deferred share elements of an annual bonus would normally be payable at the normal payment date.
Any deferred share element could be paid in cash.
Any outstanding deferred bonus may be released or paid in cash, subject to clawback for a period of three years from the date of grant.
Commencement date Notice period Ian Hawksworth 17 May 2010 12 months Situl Jobanputra 1 January 2017 12 months Gary Yardley 17 May 2010 12 months 76 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they left the Groups employment for reasons including injury, ill-health, disability approved by the Committee, redundancy or retirement with the agreement of the employing company.
The table below summarises how PSP awards are typically treated in specific leaver circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion, for example an individual may be considered a good leaver for any other reason at the absolute discretion of the Committee, and the vesting of awards may be reduced for good leavers.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Good leaver Normal vesting date, although Payments are normally pro-rated for time and remain subject to outstanding performance the Committee has discretion to conditions.
Where vesting is accelerated, payments are further pro-rated to reflect the accelerate.
extent to which the performance conditions had been satisfied at the date of leaving.
The holding period would continue to apply.
Change of control Immediately Vesting will be pro-rated for time and remain subject to performance conditions.
However, the Committee has discretion to allow awards to vest in full in such circumstances if it deems this to be fair and reasonable.
The holding period would cease to apply.
Any other reason Awards lapse There are no obligations on the Company contained within the existing Directors service contracts which would give rise to payments not disclosed in this report.
The service contracts of any future-appointed Directors will provide for mitigation in the event of termination.
1.7 Non-executive Director Policy Table The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are reviewed by the Board annually and contain a one-month notice period.
The Chairmans letter of appointment contains a 12-month notice period.
The letters of appointment may be viewed at the Companys registered office.
Non-executive Directors dates of appointment and unexpired terms Date of most recent Unexpired term as at Date of appointment letter of appointment 31 December 2016 Graeme Gordon 23 February 2010 6 May 2016 4 months Gerry Murphy 1 March 2015 6 May 2016 4 months Demetra Pinsent 1 May 2012 6 May 2016 4 months Henry Staunton 2 June 2010 6 May 2016 4 months Anthony Steains 1 March 2016 26 February 2016 4 months Andrew Strang 23 February 2010 6 May 2016 4 months The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors do not receive any pension, bonus or long-term incentive benefits from the Company.
Performance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity metrics Fee To recruit and retain The Chairman and Non-executive Director fees are reviewed Non-executive Director fees may N A appropriately qualified on an annual basis, with any increase taking effect from 1 May.
include a basic fee and Committee Non-executive Directors.
SID fees as disclosed in the Annual The Board and Committee review fees with reference to: Report on Remuneration.
These other property companies: are set at a level that is considered UK companies of a similar size: and appropriately competitive in light the time that Non-executive Directors are required to devote of market practice, and will not to the role.
exceed the aggregate fees permitted by the Companys Articles In exceptional circumstances, if there is a temporary yet material of Association.
increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a pro-rata basis to recognise the additional workload.
Benefits To be appropriately The Chairmans benefits include private healthcare and personal The maximum value of the N A competitive with those offered accident and travel insurance.
benefits provided to Non-executive at comparator companies.
Directors will be the cost of Other Non-executive Directors will be covered by the Companys purchasing them in the market.
travel insurance policy should they be required to travel on Company business.
Any reasonable business related expenses can be reimbursed including tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit.
com 77 Directors remuneration report continued aware of how the remuneration of Directors 1.8 External Directorships 1.9 Consideration of conditions compares to that of other employees: for The Companys policy is to encourage each elsewhere in the Company example, salary increases are generally in Executive Director to take up one or more When setting Executive Director pay the line with increases awarded to other Non-executive Directorships, subject to Committee considers the remuneration employees, which are set with reference Board approval.
Fees received for serving and overall conditions of all employees.
as a Non-executive Director of a company Capco has a relatively small workforce, the outside the Capco Group are retained by Committee does not consult with employees 1.10 Consideration of shareholder views the Executive Director.
when deciding remuneration policy, but It is the Committees policy to consult with it receives regular updates from the HR major shareholders as appropriate, for Director on salary increases, bonus and share example, prior to finalising any major awards made to Group employees and is changes to its executive remuneration policy.
ANNUAL REPORT ON following a competitive process.
During Matters considered by the REMUNERATION the year, the Committee received advice on Committee over the past This section of the Directors Remuneration matters including remuneration structure, year include: Report explains how Capcos current incentive design and target setting from Executive Director remuneration remuneration policy has been implemented Aon Hewitt.
Aon Hewitt is a member of during the year.
the Remuneration Consultants Group Shareholder consultation and adheres to its code of conduct.
The 2.1 Remuneration Committee CFO exit and terms Committee has received confirmation The Remuneration Committee is of appointment of independence from Aon Hewitt, and responsible for determining and is satisfied that the advice received was Shareholder and investor body recommending to the Board the policy objective and independent.
In addition correspondence for the remuneration of the Executive to advice provided to the Committee, Aon Directors, setting targets for the Companys Directors remuneration report Hewitt also provided share award valuation incentive schemes and determining the services to the Company.
During 2016, the Committee terms of reference total individual remuneration package for Company was charged a total of 124,345 each Executive Director.
Membership of the Institutional investor voting by Aon Hewitt in respect of advice to the Committee as at 31 December 2016 and the reports and voting at 2016 AGM Committee.
Fees were charged on a date of this report is set out on page 71.
In Setting of and evaluation of time basis.
addition, the Company Chairman, Chief performance against Executive Executive, Company Secretary and the 2.3 Statement of shareholder voting Directors performance targets Director of HR & CR are invited to attend The table below shows the results of Committee meetings and contribute, Annual bonus structure and the advisory vote on the 2015 Directors except on matters relating to their own application across the Group Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM and remuneration.
Attendance at the seven the binding vote on remuneration policy at Share scheme awards and meetings held during the year is shown the 2014 AGM.
performance targets in the table on page 63 and a summary of 2.4 Single figure of remuneration the matters considered by the Committee Chairmans remuneration The table on page 79 shows the single during the year is set out in the adjacent Change of team at figures of total remuneration paid to shaded box in column 3. remuneration consultant each Director in 2016 and 2015.
The 2.2 Remuneration Committee and charts in Figure 2 on page 80 illustrate Chairman and Chief its advisers the contribution that each element Executives expenses The Committee appointed Aon Hewitt of remuneration made to the total formerly New Bridge Street as its remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Comprises Executive Director car allowance of 18,000, medical insurance and Nonexecutive Directors travel expenses relating to Board meeting attendance where these are taxable or would be if the Director were resident in the UK for tax purposes.
Where applicable the Company pays the tax payable on Nonexecutive Director travel expenses as they are incurred in the fulfilment of Directors duties.
The2016 disclosure comprises the expected value on maturity of the 2014 Existing PSP and MSP awards which have a performance period that ran from 2014 to 2016, and were expected to vest in early 2017.
These awards have been included in the 2016 single figure as the performance conditions relating to these awards had been substantially but not fully completed during 2016.
The disclosure has been calculated assuming that zero per cent of the Existing PSP awards and MSP awards will vest.
As required under the remuneration regulations, the 2015 multiyear variable comparators which were previously disclosed on the basis described above assuming vesting of 60 per cent for the Existing PSP awards and, depending on the award, 40 or 80 per cent for the MSP awards and using a price of 4.333, being the average share price for the last three months of 2015 have been restated with values calculated using the actual vesting outcome of 54.1 per cent of the Existing PSP awards and, depending on the award, 36 or 72 per cent of the MSP awards and the actual share prices on the date that the awards vested, which were 3.349 and 2.837 respectively.
The previously disclosed 2015 multiyear variable figures were: Ian Hawksworth 1,807,394, Soumen Das 1,341,206, Gary Yardley 1,577,463.
Comprises payments in lieu of pension contributions.
Stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2016.
Retired from the Board on 6 May 2016.
Retired from the Board on 1 May 2015.
What is included in the Single Figure?
The salary or fees paid in the year The gross cash value of any taxable benefits The total annual bonus awarded for the year including both cash and the deferred element The expected value of any long-term incentive awards due to vest The cash value of any pension contribution or allowance www.
com 79 Directors remuneration report continued The figures below illustrate the contribution that each element of the Executive Directors remuneration made to the single figure disclosures.
Figure 2 Composition of 2016 single gures Composition of 2015 single gures Ian Ian Hawksworth Hawksworth Soumen Soumen Das Das Gary Gary Yardley Yardley 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Benets in kind Pension Salary Benets in kind Pension Bonus MSP & PSP Original value Share price growth Bonus MSP & PSP Original value Share price growth Financial objectives: optimising liquidity and financing: effective 2.5 Annual bonus outcomes for 2016 cost and capital expenditure management: other budgeted KPIs: Opportunity Investment objectives: strategic investment initiatives: Executive Directors can earn bonuses of up to 150 per cent of salary.
establishment and operation of JVs: implementation of business 50 per cent of bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil cost plans: achievement of planning targets: and options for three years, subject to forfeiture should the Executive Director leave the Company.
CR HR objectives: optimisation of organisational structure: nurturing of future leaders: promotion and support of Performance measures and targets CR initiatives.
Awards made in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 were based 75 per cent on financial performance, and 25 per cent on Outcome of 2016 annual bonus performance measures Audited individual performance.
Outcome of financial objectives: In respect of the year ended 31 December 2016, the Companys performance did not meet Financial measures: The financial performance element for the year the threshold performance targets for NAV or TPR, however ended 31 December 2016 was based on growth in absolute NAV the underlying EPS target was exceeded.
Accordingly awards per share NAV, Total Property Return relative to the IPD Total of 5.63 per cent of salary were made to Ian Hawksworth and Return All Property Index TPR, and underlying EPS EPS.
Gary Yardley in respect of the financial performance measures.
In determining the annual targets for these measures in 2016, the Committee recognised the long-term nature of some aspects of the Outcome of personal objectives: The Executive Directors were Companys strategy, and the extent to which this would be reflected considered to have delivered good performance in 2016, including in these measures on a 12-month horizon.
The performance the achievement of targeted returns and expansion opportunities measures, weightings and targets that applied in respect of at Covent Garden, operation of joint ventures with TfL and the 2016 annual bonus are summarised in the table on page 81.
Network Rail, optimisation of corporate liquidity, consideration of new business opportunities and control of costs and capital The Committee has previously committed to publish the financial expenditure.
Accordingly, awards of 26.25 per cent of salary performance targets once they cease to be commercially sensitive.
were made to Ian Hawksworth and Gary Yardley in respect of The financial performance targets that applied in respect of the the individual performance measures.
year ended 31 December 2014 are no longer commercially sensitive: accordingly, the targets and the Companys performance against A summary of the overall outcomes of 2016 annual bonus these targets are set out on the following page, together with the performance measures is shown in Figure 3 on page 81.
As Soumen Das left the business, any annual bonus for the year Personal measures: The Committee assessed individual performance was forfeited.
against a set of KPIs which align with the Companys objectives outlined on page 13 of the Annual Report.
These KPIs include: Corporate objectives: enhancing Capcos position and reputation in the market: identifying, monitoring and controlling risk including health and safety, progress towards meeting medium-term corporate objectives: Summary of Executive Directors Bonuses Audited 2016 2015 1 1 Executive Director Cash Deferred shares Total Cash Deferred shares Total Ian Hawksworth 92,118 92,118 184,236 381,881 381,881 763,763 Soumen Das N A N A N A 280,500 280,500 561,000 Gary Yardley 82,556 82,556 165,112 330,000 330,000 660,000 1.
50 per cent of bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil cost options for three years, subject to forfeiture should the Executive Director leave the Company.
80 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Outcome of 2016 Annual Bonus performance measures Audited Performance measure Weighting Performance Outcome Chief Chief Executive MD & CIO MD & CFO Executive MD & CIO MD & CFO Financial performance % of max Comprising: 75% 75% 75% Absolute Net Asset Value per share 60% 60% 60% Below threshold Nil Nil N A Relative Total Property Return 35% 35% 35% Below threshold Nil Nil N A Underlying Earnings per Share 5% 5% 5% Above the top end of 5% 5% N A thetargetrange Individual performance % of max 25% 25% 25% 17.5% 17.5% N A Total performance outcome % of salary 31.88% 31.88% N A Disclosure of 2014 annual bonus financial performance targets Audited Performance measure Weighting Target range Actual performance % of bonus opportunity awarded Threshold Maximum 0% payout 100% payout Absolute Net Asset 55% 260p 281p 311p 100% Value per share Relative Total 35% 0p 1.5% 2.6% 100% Property Return outperformance outperformance Underlying Earnings 10% 1.1p 1.5p 1.6p 100% per Share Figure 3 Outcome of 2016 annual bonus performance objectives Chief Executive MD & CIO MD & CFO 0 25 50 75 100 % of bonus opportunity Financial objectives Personal objectives NAV Specic investment objectives TPR Specic corporate objectives EPS Specic financial objectives Specic CR HR objectives www.
com 81 Directors remuneration report continued Performance measures and outcomes for Performance outcome: In early 2017, the 2.6 Long-term incentive outcomes 2014 awards under the Existing PSP Committee determined that Capcos TR for 2016 and MSP was not expected to equal the median of the Existing PSP Opportunity comparator group vs. an outperformance Performance measures and targets: The In 2014 awards of 150 per cent of salary target of 2.5 per cent per annum or 3 per performance conditions for the Existing were made to Executive Directors under cent for exceptional awards, and that PSP and MSP comprised two equally the Existing PSP.
Capcos TSR was not expected to equal weighted measures: MSP Opportunity the median of the comparator group Three-year relative Total Return TR, vs. an outperformance target of 4 per cent Match of deferred 2013 bonus: In 2014, shares growth in NAV per share plus dividends per annum or 5 per cent for exceptional awarded in respect of Executive Directors awards, and as such the performance deferred 2013 bonus were matched under Three-year relative Total Shareholder conditions relating to the 2014 Existing the MSP on a 2:1 basis.
Return TSR, increase in price of an PSP and MSP awards had not been met.
ordinary share plus dividends Coinvestment invitation: In 2013 the Accordingly, the 2014 Existing PSP and Committee offered Executive Directors Where an exceptional award was made, the MSP awards are expected to lapse and no an opportunity to invest up to 150 per cent additional matching opportunity could value has been included in the single figure of 2013 salary between 2013 and 2015 only be earned for performance above the disclosures in respect of these awards.
subsequently extended to early 2016 when normal stretch targets.
The performance permitted by scheme headroom with an targets are set out in Figure 4 below.
Figure 4 Performance measures for the MSP The graphs below illustrate the proportion of a Matching Share Plan award tested against each performance measure that would vest at different levels of performance.
33 per cent of a non-exceptional award would vest at median performance.
3-year TR outperformance 3-year TSR outperformance Exceptional awards All other awards Exceptional awards All other awards Performance conditions for the Existing PSP The graphs below illustrate the proportionof an Existing PSP award that would vest at different levels of performance.
3-year TSR outperformance 3-year TR outperformance 2013 2016 and other years 2013 2016 and other years TR AND TSR COMPARATOR GROUP FOR THE EXISTING PSP, PSP AND MSP British Land Great Portland Estates Land Securities Capco Hammerson Segro Derwent London Intu Properties Shaftesbury 82 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 % of a normal Existing PSP award tested Matching award as a percentage of the against each performance measure number of matched shares % of a normal Existing PSP award tested Matching award as a percentage of the against each performance measure number of matched shares Strategic report Governance Financial statements Scheme interests awarded during the financial year 1 MSP AUDITED Market price on Exercise Face value Number Performance Threshold Exercisable 2 3 Basis of award date of grant price if any of award awarded Holding period Vesting % between Ian Hawksworth Match of 317.8p Nil 601,907 189,398 2016 2019 8.3% 01 03 19 Co-Investment 28 02 26 4 Soumen Das Match of 317.8p Nil 339,715 106,896 2016 2019 8.3% 01 03 19 Co-Investment 28 02 26 Ian Hawksworth Value of 315.3p Nil 381,879 121,116 2016 2019 100% 11 03 19 Deferred Bonus 10 03 26 4 Soumen Das Value of 315.3p Nil 280,497 88,962 2016 2019 100% 11 03 19 Deferred Bonus 10 03 26 Gary Yardley Value of 315.3p Nil 329,999 104,662 2016 2019 100% 11 03 19 Deferred Bonus 10 03 26 Ian Hawksworth Match of 315.3p Nil 381,879 121,116 2016 2019 16.5% 11 03 19 Deferred Bonus 10 03 26 4 Soumen Das Match of 315.3p Nil 280,497 88,962 2016 2019 16.5% 11 03 19 Deferred Bonus 10 03 26 Gary Yardley Match of 315.3p Nil 329,999 104,662 2016 2019 16.5% 11 03 19 Deferred Bonus 10 03 26 Ian Hawksworth Match of 332.8p Nil 124,500 37,410 2016 2019 16.5% 05 04 19 Co-Investment 04 04 26 4 Soumen Das Match of 332.8p Nil 135,000 40,565 2016 2019 16.5% 05 04 19 Co-Investment 04 04 26 Gary Yardley Match of 332.8p Nil 116,999 35,156 2016 2019 16.5% 05 04 19 Co-Investment 04 04 26 Ian Hawksworth Match of 285.8p Nil 396,542 138,748 2016 2019 8.3% 01 11 19 Co-Investment 31 10 26 Gary Yardley Match of 285.8p Nil 325,849 114,013 2016 2019 8.3% 01 11 19 Co-investment 31 10 26 1 PSP AUDITED Market price on Exercise Face value Number Performance Threshold Exercisable 2 3 Basis of award date of grant price if any of award awarded period Vesting % between Ian Hawksworth 150 per cent 315.3p Nil 866,999 274,976 2016 2019 16.5% 11 03 19 of salary 10 03 26 4 Soumen Das 150 per cent 315.3p Nil 674,997 214,081 2016 2019 16.5% 11 03 19 of salary 10 03 26 Gary Yardley 150 per cent 315.3p Nil 776,997 246,431 2016 2019 16.5% 11 03 19 of salary 10 03 26 1.
MSP and PSP awards are granted as nil cost options.
Average closing share price on three business days preceding the date of grant.
Assumes threshold vesting under one performance condition.
Awards lapsed in full on date Soumen Das gave notice of his intention to resign from the Company.
The performance measures and targets for awards made under the Existing PSP and MSP are set out on page 82.
2.7 Payments for loss of office and payments to previous 2.8 Total pension entitlement Audited No Director participates in or has a deferred benefit under a defined Directors Audited benefit pension scheme.
No payments for loss of office or payments to previous Directors in respect of qualifying services were made during 2016.
Soumen 2.9 External Non-executive Directorships Das resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December 2016.
His No Executive Director currently serves as a Non-executive Director unvested long-term incentive awards lapsed.
Any annual bonus for elsewhere in 2015 Ian Hawksworth received a fee of 40,000 in the year was forfeited and there were no payments for loss of office.
respect of his former Non-executive Directorship of AIM-listed Japan Residential Investment Company Limited from which he stepped down on 30 December 2015. www.
com 83 Directors remuneration report continued 2.10 Statement of implementation of policy for 2017 Matching Share Plan No further MSP awards will be made.
Salary The Executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually.
In April Performance Share Plan 2017 the salary of the Chief Executive and Managing Director If the new remuneration policy is approved at the 2017 AGM, PSP and Chief Investment Officer will be increased by 2.9 per cent awards of 350 per cent of salary will be made in May 2017 as awards to 595,000 and 533,000 respectively, which is in line with the ornil cost options.
The applicable performance conditions are set increase expected to be applied to Group employees.
As explained out in the table below: in the Committee Chairmans letter on page 70, the salary of the Chief Financial Officer will be reviewed in April 2019 by up to Threshold Maximum 15 per cent.
TR Median Median 2% The proposed revised salaries for the Executive Directors are set out TSR Median Median 4% in the table below: Chairman and Non-executive Director remuneration Executive Director Salaries 2016 and 2017 The Chairman has been appointed for a three-year term, subject to 2017 2016 % Increase annual re-election by shareholders, which will expire at the 2019 AGM.
The Chairmans annual base fee for 2016 was 257,000.
The Ian Hawksworth 595,000 578,000 2.9% remuneration of the Chairman is reviewed annually.
Following Soumen Das N A 450,000 N A the 2016 review it was agreed that the Chairmans annual base fee would be increased to 265,000 with effect from 1 May 2017.
Gary Yardley 533,000 518,000 2.9% Situl Jobanputra 325,000 N A N A The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, with regard to market comparatives, and recommended to the Board as a whole.
The Pension and benefits Non-executive Director fees are reviewed annually.
Following As described in the policy table on pages 72 and 73. the 2016 review it was agreed that the Non-executive Director fees Annual bonus would be increased as set out in the table below with effect from Opportunity 1 May 2017.
The annual bonus opportunity will remain unchanged for 2017.
Non-executive Director fees 2016 and 2017 Performance conditions 2017 2016 The financial performance targets for the year ended 31 December Basic fee 51,500 50,000 2016 were based on growth in absolute NAV per share, Total Property Return relative to the IPD Total Return All Property Committee member except Nomination Committee 6,700 6,500 Index, and underlying EPS.
The Committee has decided that, Committee member Nomination Committee 6,000 6,000 whilst NAV and TPR continue to be of greatest importance to Capcos strategy, in 2017 the weighting of EPS as a performance Committee Chairman Audit and Remuneration Committee 16,000 15,500 measure will be increased to 10 per cent of the financial performance Senior Independent Director 12,900 12,500 measures, in line with years prior to 2016, in order to maintain appropriate focus on the Groups cost structure.
The rebalancing of weightings of the financial performance measures for 2017 is shown in the table below.
The relative weighting of financial and individual performance measures will remain unchanged.
The Committee will consider the appropriate weighting of the EPS measure on an annual basis.
Performance targets The TPR target is included in the Companys KPIs on page 13.
The KPIs are in part dependent upon the occurrence of certain discrete events.
Therefore, whilst the outperformance targets that apply to the long-term incentives are disclosed, the Board has decided that as the Group operates in three specific locations within the competitive central London property market, prospective disclosure of specific short-term NAV and EPS targets would provide a level of information to counterparties that could prejudice the Companys commercial interests.
The Committee expects to publish the performance targets retrospectively once they have ceased to be commercially sensitive.
Further information on the Companys KPIs can be found on page 13.
2017 financial performance measures Absolute Net Asset Value per share 55% Relative Total Property Return 35% Underlying Earnings per Share 10% 84 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.11 Chart of single figure vs. TSR This graph shows the total shareholder return at 31 December 2016 of 100 Figure 5: Total shareholder return invested in Capital & Counties Properties pence PLC at the start of the first day of trading in its shares following its demerger from 450 Liberty International PLC 10 May 2010, compared to the FTSE 350 Real Estate 400 Index.
The Committee considers this benchmark to be the most appropriate for 350 illustrating the Companys performance.
2.12 Percentage increase of Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for employees at Capco Head Office including Earls Court Properties and Covent Garden, who have been selected as the comparator as they participate in similar remuneration arrangements to the Executive Directors.
To allow a meaningful comparison, the analysis for employees is based on a consistent group of individuals.
Chief Executive Employees 2016 2015 % change % change Salary 573,000 549,750 4.23% 5.66% Taxable benefits 23,430 22,218 5.46% 24.94% Single-year variable 184,236 763,763 -75.88% -50.39% Total 780,666 1,335,731 2.13 Distribution statement The graphs in Figure 6 below illustrate Capcos dividends paid and total employee pay expenditure this includes pension, variable pay, and social security for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, and the percentage change in each.
The measures above are those prescribed by the remuneration disclosure regulations, however they do not reflect Capcos KPIs, which are explained on page 13.
Accordingly, graphs showing Capcos one-year TPR and TR are also included below.
com 85 Directors remuneration report continued 2.14 Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests Audited a Directors shareholdings The beneficial interests in the shares of the Company for each Director who served during the year are set out in the table below.
The Chief Executive is required to achieve a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 300 per cent of salary and the other Executive Directors are required to achieve a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary, to be achieved by retaining at least 50 per cent of any vested share awards net of tax and or within three years.
The Chairman is required to maintain a shareholding equivalent to 100 per cent of his base fee.
The current shareholdings of the Chairman and Executive Directors are illustrated in Figure 7.
Directors shareholdings including connected persons 2016 and 2015 Audited 2016 2015 Chairman Figure 7: Executive Director and Chairman Shareholdings Ian Durant 568,632 568,632 as at 31 December 2016 Executive % of salary Ian Hawksworth 820,604 770,604 800 Gary Yardley 472,972 442,972 700 Non-executive 600 Graeme Gordon 30,450,061 30,450,061 500 Gerry Murphy 30,000 400 Demetra Pinsent 300 200 Henry Staunton 250,000 250,000 100 Anthony Steains 0 Ian Gary Soumen Ian Andrew Strang Hawksworth Yardley Das Durrant Former Directors Actual holding as a % of base salary Deferred bonus share awards Shareholding guideline 1 Soumen Das 282,018 252,018 2 Ian Henderson 37,601 37,601 1.
Shareholdings as at 31 December 2016, being the date that Soumen Das stepped down from the Board.
Shareholdings as at 6 May 2016, being the date that Ian Henderson retired from the Board.
b Directors share interests Audited Details of Executive Directors share scheme interests, including information on share awards that were exercised or vested during the year, are set out in the tables below.
i Summary of Executive Directors interests in shares and share schemes full details are set out on pages 87 and 88 Share awards, no longer Share awardsin respect of subject to performance Share awards, subject to 1 2 Executive Director Shares held deferred bonus conditions performance conditions Total Ian Hawksworth 820,604 315,536 585,778 1,515,341 3,237,259 3 Soumen Das 282,018 282,018 Gary Yardley 472,972 377,706 347,095 1,309,355 2,507,128 Total 1,575,594 693,242 932,873 2,824,696 6,026,405 1.
Comprises vested but unexercised Existing PSP and MSP awards.
Comprises Existing PSP and MSP awards that remain subject to performance conditions.
Shares held as at the date that Soumen Das stepped down from the Board, being 31 December 2016.
Subject to performance conditions that apply to awards made under the Existing PSP and MSP, as set out on pages 72 and 73.
Vested but unexercised or not exercised in full.
The market price of Capital & Counties Properties PLC shares on 30 December 2016 being the last day for trading during the year was 297.1 pence and during the year the price varied between 433.0 pence and 263.1 pence.
The aggregate gain made by the Executive Directors following the exercise of share options during the year was 7,281,881.50.
This Remuneration Report has been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2017.
Gerry Murphy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 88 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016
