Directors Remuneration Report INTRODUCTION This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, set out on pages 48 to 49: the Directors Remuneration Policy, set out on pages 51 to 58, and the Annual Report on Remuneration, set out on pages 59 to 66.
The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the policy which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 May 2015, and remains unchanged, other than minor text changes to improve its clarity.
No payment may be paid to a Director or past Director unless it is consistent with the approved policy unless shareholder approval is sought.
The exception to this is if the payment is made pursuant to a contractual obligation that was in force at 27 June 2012 when the new regulations came into force.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the policy has been applied during the financial year being reported on and how it will be applied in the coming year.
This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM on 24 May 2016, although the vote is advisory.
This report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
50 50 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section provides Card Factorys Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which was approved and came into effect at the 2015 AGM on 27 May 2015, and remains unchanged, other than minor text changes to improve its clarity.
Card Factorys policy for Executive Directors remuneration is to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay.
Fixed pay is set by reference to relevant companies to attract, motivate and retain the senior management team and to ensure a fair reward for each role.
Variable pay is set to provide a competitive level of reward that aligns performance with the Groups long-term goals and shareholder interests.
POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are reviewed Whilst no maximum level Business and individual To attract and retain annually, with reference to scope of salary has been set by performance are talent by ensuring of role, individual performance, the Remuneration considerations in setting base salaries are experience, market Committee, Executive base salary competitive in the competitiveness of total Directors salary increases relevant talent market, remuneration with reference to will normally be in line and to reflect an companies of a similar size and with those for the wider executives skills and other retail companies, inflation employee population at experience and salary increases across the Card Factory Group In certain circumstances Increases will normally be including, but not limited effective 1 May to, a material increase in job size or complexity, promotion, recruitment or development of the individual in the role, or a significant misalignment with market the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive Pension Executive Directors are entitled The maximum permitted None To provide post to receive the same auto by pensions auto retirement benefits enrolment defined contribution enrolment legislation pension arrangements as for the CEO and CFO other employees New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based on market competitive contribution rates On appointment, the CEO Designate will receive a contribution to her personal pension of 15,000 pa Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Benefits Benefits currently include private Benefits' values vary by To provide Executive medical insurance, life insurance, role and are reviewed Directors with a income protection, and the periodically relative to reasonable level of provision of a car or car allowance market benefits and to ensure overall remuneration is Where appropriate, other benefits It is not practical to provide market competitive may be offered, for example a maximum opportunity for including, but not limited to, benefits, as there may be relocation allowances factors outside of the Companys control which change the cost to the Company eg increases in insurance premiums The cost of providing benefits for the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Variable pay Annual bonus Performance measures and Up to 125% of salary Performance is determined To focus executives targets are set at the start of the by the Committee on an on delivery of financial year by the annual basis by reference year-on-year Remuneration Committee to financial measures eg financial performance EBITDA and personal At the end of the financial year, performance The ability to deliver a the Remuneration Committee portion of bonuses in determines the extent to which The annual bonus for shares helps towards the targets have been achieved 2016 17 will be based on achieving an EBITDA performance with appropriate balance Awards are normally delivered in a personal performance between year-on-year cash, but the Committee can underpin, as in 2015 16 financial performance decide that some or all of it will see further details in the and longer-term value instead be paid in shares and Annual Report on creation deferred for up to three years.
If Remuneration participants have not met the shareholding requirement, up to For achievement of one third of any bonus will be threshold performance, up mandatorily deferred in shares for to 15% of maximum bonus three years is earned An additional benefit is provided In determining the bonus in cash or shares equal to outcome the Committee dividends that would have been also takes into account paid over the vesting period on personal, business unit or awards that vest Company performance and can reduce bonus The Committee has discretion to awards accordingly reduce the amount of any deferred bonus entitlement, or defer vesting The Committee retains of awards or make them subject to discretion to introduce additional conditions, in the event operational or strategic of, for example, material measures at the start of misstatement, misconduct or each year, to ensure reputational damage.
In extreme alignment with the cases, the Committee may further business priorities for the determine to claw back previous year.
The weighting on annual bonus payments for up to financial measures will two years post-vesting remain at least 80% 52 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long Term Incentive The Committee has the ability to Up to 175% of salary face Subject to continued Plan 'LTIP' grant annual awards of value at grant employment, awards will To align the interests performance shares or nil-cost vest on achievement of of executives with options financial performance shareholders in measures eg EPS growth, growing the value of Performance is measured over a return measures, the business over the three year period.
Shares are then measured over a threelong term subject to an additional two year year performance period holding period apart from any sold to pay tax, before being released Up to 25% of awards will to participants vest for achievement of threshold performance, An additional benefit is provided in then increase on a straightcash or shares equal to dividends line basis to full vesting for that would have been paid over the achieving stretch vesting period on awards that vest performance The Committee have discretion to Measures used for LTIP reduce unvested long-term awards in 2016 17 will be incentive awards, defer vesting of based on three year EPS awards or make them subject to growth with a returns additional conditions including underpin, as in 2015 16 those awards in a holding period in see further details in the the event of, for example, material Annual Report on misstatement, misconduct or Remuneration reputational damage.
In extreme cases, the Committee may further determine to claw back vested LTIP awards for up to two years postvesting SAYE A UK tax-qualified scheme under Savings are capped at the None To encourage share which eligible employees prevailing HMRC limit at ownership across the including Executive Directors the time eligible workforce may save up to the maximum employees are invited to monthly savings limit as participate, or such lower determined by prevailing limit as determined by the legislation over a period of three Remuneration Committee or five years.
They are granted an option to acquire shares at up to a 20% discount to the price on grant.
The number of shares under option is that which can be acquired at that price using the proceeds of the savings Shareholding Requirement to build up and Details of the current None guidelines maintain a beneficial holding of guidelines and Executive To encourage share shares in the Company defined as Director shareholdings are ownership and ensure a % of salary included in the Annual alignment of executive Report on Remuneration interests with those of shareholders Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Directors Remuneration Report continued NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE This Policy is unchanged in substance since approval at the last AGM on 27 May 2015.
Minor text changes have been made to ensure this Policy report remains clear for the reader along with other minor changes to provide additional clarity.
These include: updates to the Policy table above to reflect 2016 17 incentive performance measures and pension arrangements in 2016 17 for the CEO Designate: updated service contract details on page 56 to reflect changes in Board membership and notice periods: updated scenario charts on page 55 to reflect appointment of CEO Designate and latest salaries: and updated statement on differences in remuneration policy operated for other employees on page 54.
Equity plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as amended from time to time in accordance with those rules, and within the limits of the Policy.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used in the annual bonus are selected annually to reflect the Companys main strategic objectives for the year.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
The Committee considers carefully the appropriate financial conditions to attach to the annual bonus and the financial targets to attach to long-term incentive awards to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to our strategic objectives: ii mindful of risk management: and iii fair by being suitably stretching whilst realistic.
The Remuneration Committees rationale for the use of specific performance measures is included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee reviews formulaic incentive outcomes and may adjust these within the limits of the relevant plan to ensure alignment of pay with the underlying performance of the business.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to make adjustments to the calculation of shortand long-term performance measures in specific circumstances and within the limits of applicable plan rules.
Such circumstances include: changes in accounting standards, major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, corporate restructurings, mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Differences in remuneration policy operated for other employees The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of the senior management team below the Board is consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
The senior management team generally participate in the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with similar performance measures applied.
The Policy for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other employees reflect the seniority of each role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the Policy for executives as set out above, but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair.
All employees, including the current Executive Directors other than the CEO Designate, who on appointment, will receive a contribution to her personal pension of 15,000 pa, are eligible to participate in the same pension scheme as the relevant legislation provides with the same maximum contribution, and permanent employees will be eligible to participate subject to certain eligibility criteria in the UK tax-qualified SAYE scheme on identical terms.
Other In addition to the above elements of remuneration, any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the approval at the 27 May 2015 AGM and implementation of the Policy detailed in this report will be honoured, including arrangements put in place prior to an individual becoming a Director.
The Committee also retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders for example, for regulatory, tax, legislative or administrative purposes.
54 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Mid and Maximum.
Maximum 1,821k 2 Karen Hubbard joined the Board as CEO Designate on 22 February 2016.
The opposite chart illustrates her potential future reward opportunities 51% 29% 20% assuming she was in the role for the full financial year.
Mid 959k 100% Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Minimum 486k LTIP 000s 0 400 800 1,200 1,600 2,000 Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are in line with the existing Policy, applied to the base salaries that will be in force on 1 May 2016.
The projected value of LTIP amounts assumes LTIP grants at the maximum level and excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions are made: Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Minimum Salary as at 1 May 2016 No annual bonus payable Threshold not achieved 0% Mid On-target annual bonus payable Performance warrants threshold Pension contribution is 50% of maximum vesting 25% of maximum currently 1% of qualifying Maximum Maximum annual bonus payable Performance warrants full vesting band earnings for the CEO the CFO has opted out of the pension scheme.
CEO Designate will receive a contribution of 15,000 pa to her personal pension Benefits for the most recent financial year Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued APPROACH TO REMUNERATION FOR NEW DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Card Factory and its shareholders, and will be mindful not to overpay on recruitment.
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, and remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those outlined in the future Policy table above, as follows: Component Approach Maximum opportunity Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined based n a on the experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities, relevant market data and their current basic salary Pension New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based n a on market competitive contribution rates Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line n a with the Policy which may include but are not limited to the provision of a company car or car allowance, relocation allowances Annual bonus The structure described in the Policy table will apply to new 125% of salary appointees with the relevant maximum being prorated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP 175% of salary on similar terms as other executives, as described in the Policy table SAYE New appointees will be invited to participate in the allSavings are capped at the employee SAYE scheme on identical terms as other prevailing HMRC limit at the time eligible employees employees are invited to participate The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The total fair value of any such buy out incentive arrangements will not exceed that of awards forfeited on leaving the previous employer, and time to vesting will be matched.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the approach will be consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above save for buy outs.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Measures used for below Board employees may be different from those used for Executive Directors to tailor incentives to a particular division, role or individual.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the Policy as set out in the table on page 58.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Directors The Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors of no more than 12 months.
The Executive Directors may be put on garden leave during their notice period for up to six months, and the Company can elect to terminate their employment by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benefits including pension contributions.
Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office and at the forthcoming AGM.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Richard Hayes 30 April 2014 12 months Darren Bryant 30 April 2014 9 months Karen Hubbard 5 January 2016 9 months Darren Bryants notice period was changed in January 2016 to address the concern of certain shareholders regarding the length of notice periods for Executive Directors and also to align it with the notice period for Karen Hubbard.
56 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee may: settle any claims by or on behalf of the Executive Director in return for making an appropriate payment: and contribute to the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, outplacement services, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
The Companys policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the executives contractual terms, the circumstances of termination and any duty to mitigate.
The table below summarises how incentives are typically treated in different circumstances: Plan Scenario Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Default treatment No bonus is paid n a Death, injury, ill-health or Normal payment date, The Committee will determine disability, retirement, or although the Committee has the bonus outcome based on any other reason the discretion to accelerate circumstances and the date of Committee may determine leaving.
Performance against targets is typically assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be prorated for time served during the year Change of control Ordinarily accrued bonuses Where the Committee will rollover into the new determines that a bonus is entity, however, the payable, performance against Committee has discretion to targets will be assessed at the allow a bonus to be paid point of change of control and immediately on a change of any resulting bonus will be control prorated for time served up to the point of change of control.
If bonus targets are not met, no bonus will be payable Shares deferred as Default treatment Awards lapse n a part of annual bonus Death, injury, ill-health or Normal vesting date, Awards are not prorated disability, retirement, or although the Committee has any other reason the discretion to accelerate Committee may determine Change control Immediately Awards are not prorated LTIP Default treatment Awards lapse n a Death, injury or disability, Normal vesting date, Any outstanding awards will redundancy, retirement, although the Committee has normally be prorated for time the sale of the employing discretion to accelerate and performance conditions company or business out will be measured over the of the Group or any other normal performance period reason as the Committee unless awards are may determine accelerated Change of control Immediately Any outstanding awards will be prorated for time and performance up to the point of the change of control SAYE Treated in line with HMRC rules Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were appointed on the dates set out in the table below.
Their letters of appointment set out the terms of their appointment and are available for inspection at the Groups registered office and at the AGM.
Appointments are initially for three years subject to annual re-election at the AGM and unless agreed by the Board, they may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is shorter.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors may resign from their positions but must serve the Board six and one months written notice respectively.
1 Non-Executive Director Letter of appointment date Expiry of current term Geoff Cooper 30 April 2014 30 April 2017 Octavia Morley 30 April 2014 30 April 2017 David Stead 30 April 2014 30 April 2017 Paul McCrudden 1 December 2014 1 December 2017 1.
Graeme Coulthard was a Non-Executive Director of the Card Factory plc up until 3 February 2015.
Other than the one-off option grant awarded to the Chairman pre-IPO in May 2014 in connection with his appointment as detailed on page 62 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus or any equity schemes, do not receive any additional pension or benefits on top of the fees disclosed on page 62, and are not entitled to a termination payment.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS IN GROUP The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the executive remuneration Policy, but will keep this policy under review.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidelines of shareholder bodies and shareholders views.
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to undergoing consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee continues to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Committee acknowledges that Executive Directors may be invited to become Independent Non-Executive Directors of other quoted companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these duties can broaden their experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept such appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these would be retained by the Executive Director.
POLICY TABLE FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Performance of the Non-Executive Annual fee for Chairman and Any increases to NED fees will Board as a whole will Directors fees Non-Executive Directors be considered as a result of the be reviewed regularly To attract Directors with outcome of a review process as part of a Board the appropriate skills and Additional fees paid for and taking into account wider market factors, eg inflation evaluation process experience, and to reflect additional roles or time the time commitment in commitment, eg chairing The maximum aggregate annual preparing for and Board Committees fee for all directors provided in attending meetings, the Companys Articles of the duties and Non-Executive Directors Association is 1,000,000 pa responsibilities of the do not participate in any role and the contribution incentive schemes or Further details of current fees expected from the receive any other benefits are included in the Annual Non-Executive Directors other than nominal Report on Remuneration travel expenses 58 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This is the Annual Report on Remuneration for the financial year ended 31 January 2016.
This report sets out how the Policy has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ADVISERS The Remuneration Committee consists of three Independent Non-Executive Directors: Octavia Morley Chairman, David Stead and Paul McCrudden, and the Non-Executive Chairman, Geoff Cooper.
A more detailed explanation of the Remuneration Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 and 39 and a copy of its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, are available on Card Factorys investor relations website www.
The Committee fulfils its duties with a combination of both formal meetings and informal consultation with relevant parties internally.
Its principal external advisers are Kepler, a brand of Mercer, who were appointed by the Committee, and who also provide remuneration advice to the Company.
Kepler, and its parent company Mercer, do not provide any other services to the Company.
Kepler is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be found on the Remuneration Consultants Groups website at www.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received from Kepler is objective and independent.
Fees paid to Kepler for the financial year were 6,000 which were charged on the basis of time and materials.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES During 2015 16, the Committee met to consider the following remuneration matters: the remuneration package for the CEO Designate: 2015 grants of LTIP awards: to agree proposed salary reviews and bonuses for the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team for 2015 16: and to formally approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report.
SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director employed by the Company during the period for the year ended 31 January 2016 and the prior year: Richard Hayes Darren Bryant 2015 16 2014 15 2015 16 2014 15 1 Salary 456,750 414,000 345,100 323,850 Pension benefit 365 360 2 Taxable benefits 35,355 33,373 8,000 8,000 3 Non-taxable benefits 5,526 3,130 3,847 1,829 4 Annual bonus 453,263 433,510 273,972 411,800 5 Share award n a n a n a 4,200,000 6 LTIP n a n a n a n a 7 SAYE 459 n a 1,148 n a Total 951,718 884,373 632,067 4,945,479 1.
In addition to the remuneration received by the Executive Directors from the Company, the table above includes the remuneration the Executive Directors received from CF Topco Limited, the Groups holding company prior to the IPO, in the period from 1 February 2014 to 16 April 2014.
Taxable benefits include: car or car allowance Richard Hayes 2015 16: 25,652, 2014 15: 24,498, Darren Bryant: 8,000 allowance : fuel allowance Richard Hayes 2015 16: 7,977, 2014 15: 7,558 : and family private medical insurance.
Both Richard Hayes and Darren Bryant are members of the Group Life Assurance Scheme.
The amounts stated relate to insurance premiums paid by the Group.
Annual bonus paid for performance over the relevant financial year.
Annual bonus was paid in cash only.
Further details on performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards for the financial year ended 31 January 2016 can be found on page 60.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2015, Darren Bryant received a bonus in connection with the completion of IPO.
As disclosed in the prospectus published by the Company in connection with the IPO, in 2014 15 a share based payment arose during the year in favour of Darren Bryant relating to management entitlements under the investment agreement that was in place between the shareholders of the Company prior to the IPO.
Immediately after completion of the IPO, 1,875,000 ordinary shares were issued and allotted to Darren Bryant for the nominal value of 1p per ordinary share.
The IPO offer price was 225p per share.
No LTIP awards vested during the reported periods.
Embedded value of SAYE options at grant.
There are no performance conditions.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued SALARY During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salary of the Chief Financial Officer who was awarded an increase of 2%.
Given that Richard Hayes will retire from the Board and leave the Group in June 2016, his salary has not been reviewed.
The salaries of the Executive Directors are, with effect from 1 May 2016 or from appointment on 22 February 2016 for Karen Hubbard, as follows: Executive Director 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 Richard Hayes 459,000 459,000 Darren Bryant 353,736 346,800 Karen Hubbard 445,000 n a EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION ARRANGEMENTS The CEO and CFO participate in the same defined contribution pension scheme as other employees in line with auto enrolment legislation.
Pension contributions for Richard Hayes in 2015 16 were 1% of qualifying band earnings.
Darren Bryant opted-out of the auto enrolment pension arrangements and no pension contributions were made for him for the year under review.
For 2016 17, the Executive Directors will continue to receive pension contributions in line with the Policy, albeit the CEO Designate will receive a contribution to her personal pension of 15,000 pa.
ANNUAL BONUS The Group operates an annual performance related bonus scheme for a number of the senior management team including Executive Directors.
Bonus opportunities for 2015 16 were 125% of salary for Richard Hayes and 100% of salary for Darren Bryant.
Annual bonus awards granted to Executive Directors in respect of 2015 16 were as follows: 1 Executive Director Bonus Richard Hayes 453,263 Darren Bryant 273,972 1.
All bonuses will be paid in cash.
The awards in respect of 2015 16 were based on EBITDA and subject to a personal performance underpin.
Personal performance is assessed based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy see pages 8 and 9 of the Strategic Report, to ensure the foundations for future growth are laid, as well as delivering in the current year.
The EBITDA performance targets for the year were: Percentage of 2015 16 EBITDA maximum Performance level target bonus awarded Threshold 92.7m 15% Maximum 95.7m 100% For levels of performance between the points set out in the tables, vesting would be determined on a straight-line, pro rata basis.
No bonus is awarded for performance below the threshold.
The range between threshold and maximum has been drawn relatively tightly in line with the relative consistency of business performance.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2016, Card Factory achieved EBITDA of 95.0m.
The Committee assessed the personal performance underpin to have been achieved based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy, and as such, annual bonuses were awarded at 79% of maximum.
60 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials ANNUAL BONUS FOR 2016 17 For the financial year ending 31 January 2017, the Committee will operate the annual bonus using the same measures as were used in 2015 16.
The EBITDA targets have been set by the Committee and will require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance.
Given the close link between these targets and Card Factorys competitive strategy, EBITDA targets are considered commercially sensitive but will be published in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration, subject to them no longer being considered commercially sensitive.
Karen Hubbard will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus for 2016 17, with any bonus awarded at the end of the year prorated to reflect the portion of the financial year served.
Richard Hayes will not be eligible to participate in this annual bonus.
The use of an EBITDA performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on strong annual financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its short and longterm strategic goals.
The overall assessment of personal performance, assessed based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy, helps ensure that the Executives behaviours support longerterm value creation.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP' AUDITED Grants of awards under the LTIP in 2015 Awards under the LTIP were granted to the Executive Directors on 1 April 2015.
Awards were made over shares worth 175% of basic salary for Richard Hayes and 150% of salary for Darren Bryant.
Awards that vest after any sales required to pay tax and social security contributions will be subject to a 2-year holding period.
Number of LTIP shares Face maximum value of % of award vesting at 1 Executive awarded awards at grant date threshold and Maximum Performance period Richard Hayes 283,579 787,500 25% 100% 1.2.
Based on the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the three months prior to the date of award, 1 April 2015, of 277.7p.
2015 LTIP vesting schedule 100% 25% 9% pa 15% pa 3-year EPS CAGR The primary performance targets attached to those awards, based on annual EPS growth over three financial years starting with that in which the award is granted, are illustrated in the chart above.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Remuneration Committee needs to be satisfied that the Companys return on capital has been broadly consistent with historic levels.
The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
The Committee believes that a returns underpin appropriately reinforces the need to focus on returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 % of LTIP awards vesting Directors Remuneration Report continued LTIP awards in 2016 For 2016, the Committee intends to grant LTIP awards to Executive Directors in line with the Policy using the same performance measures as were used in 2015 see page 61.
In accordance with the Policy, the Remuneration Committee will review the corresponding targets ahead of the 2016 grant to ensure they are appropriately stretching over the performance period and deliver strong earnings growth and capital returns, whilst being mindful of the potential cost pressures facing the sector over the three year period.
Awards will be made over shares worth 175% of basic salary for Karen Hubbard and 150% of salary for Darren Bryant, and details of the awards will be set out in next years report and at the time of their grant.
Given his retirement in June, Richard Hayes will not receive an LTIP award in 2016.
SAYE Awards under the HMRC-approved SAYE were granted to all participating employees on 26 June 2015.
Options were granted at a discount of 20% to the share price on grant, and vest after 3 years subject to continued employment.
Face maximum % Of award Number of SAYE value of vesting at options awards at grant threshold and Performance 1 Executive awarded date Maximum period Richard Hayes 1,241 4,058 n a n a Darren Bryant 3,103 10,147 n a n a 1.
Based on the share price on the date of award, 26 June 2015, of 327p.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors take into account general economic and market conditions, time commitment and responsibility, and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors in similar positions in comparable UK-listed companies.
Changes are generally effective from 1 May.
No increases were made in the year under review and none are proposed for the current year.
2016 17 2015 16 Base fees Chairman 125,000 125,000 Senior Independent Director 49,000 49,000 Non-Executive Director 45,000 45,000 Additional fees Chair of the Remuneration Committee 8,000 8,000 Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 8,000 8,000 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 January 2016.
As disclosed in last years report, in connection with his appointment, Geoff Cooper was given the option to invest 330,000 in the Company by means of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or alongside, the offer of shares conducted in conjunction with the IPO at the offer price of 225p per share.
Geoff took up this offer at the time of the IPO in May 2014 and agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary shares and this has entitled him, on each of the second and third anniversaries of the date of the completion of the IPO, to make further investments of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the offer price.
Geoffs entitlement to make such purchases is conditional upon and subject to his remaining as Chairman of the Company on the relevant dates.
It is not intended to offer the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors participation in similar arrangements in the future.
These options are valued in the table above based on the embedded value at the year end.
Graeme Coulthards fees were paid directly to Charterhouse and Graeme resigned from his position as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 3 February 2015.
The table above includes fees for 2014 15 paid to Graeme Coulthard by CF Topco Limited, the Groups holding company prior to the IPO, in the period from 1 February 2014 to 16 April 2014.
Payments made to Geoff Cooper, Octavia Morley and David Stead in 2014 15 include payments made for work undertaken in the period preceding the completion of the IPO.
62 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE No exit payments were made during the year.
PAYMENTS TO PREVIOUS DIRECTORS No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND CEO SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The graph below illustrates the total shareholder return performance of Card Factory against the FTSE 250 over the period since the Group listed on 20 May 2014.
The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Group is a member.
100 invested TSR 180 Card Factory 160 140 120 FTSE 250 100 80 60 40 20 0 14 May 2014 31 January 2015 31 January 2016 Source: Datastream Richard Hayes 2015 16 2014 15 Single figure of remuneration 000 951 884 Annual bonus outcome % of max 79% 77% LTIP vesting % of max n a n a INCREASE IN CEO CASH REMUNERATION, 2014 15 TO 2015 16 Increase in CEO Average pay over the increase across 1 year all employees Salary 10.3% 2.5% Taxable benefits 5.9% % Annual variable 4.6% 6.0% 1.
Permanent store employees representing c. 90% of all permanent employees.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Value of 100 invested at IPO Directors Remuneration Report continued DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT The charts below illustrate the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees and total shareholder distributions.
Total remuneration Total shareholder for all employees distributions -4.1% 244.8% including special dividend 24.6% excluding special dividend m m 80.0 100 80 95.0 91.1 90 70 80 60 70 50 60 50 40 40 30 23.2 28.9 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2014 15 2015 16 Special dividend STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table shows the results of the shareholder votes on the 2015 Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2015 Annual General Meeting on 27 May 2015: Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report Total number of Total number of votes % of votes cast votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 284,523,755 98.32% 286,235,489 99.37% Against 4,872,781 1.68% 1,821,367 0.63% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 289,396,536 100% 288,056,856 100% 1 Total votes withheld 102,680 1,442,360 Total votes cast including withheld votes 289,499,216 289,499,216 1.
A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
64 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND INTEREST IN SHARES Card Factorys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each own significant shareholdings in the Company.
The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least 150% of the Executive Directors annual base salary 200% for the CEO.
Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer currently significantly exceed this requirement.
The Chief Executive Officer Designate joined the Company on 22 February 2016 and does not currently hold any shares.
The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to i retain at least half of vested LTIP shares, after the sale of sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance contributions triggered by the exercise and associated dealing costs : and ii defer one third of any earned net bonus into shares for three years, until the guideline level is achieved.
Shares held Options held Unvested Unvested and Current Shareholding and not Unvested and Vested but subject to shareholding requirement Owned subject to subject to not exercised continued % of salary % of salary Guideline 1 3 Director outright performance performance employment fee fee met?
Including shares owned by connected persons.
Graeme Coulthard resigned as a Director on 3 February 2015.
Graeme is a partner at Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP Charterhouse and, at the time of his resignation, the various funds through which Charterhouse held its shares in the Company held, in aggregate, 60,609,953 ordinary shares.
Calculated using the closing share price of the Company on 29 January 2016 of 349p.
As previously announced, Richard Hayes and Darren Bryant and their connected persons together with certain members of the Groups senior management team each sold 20% of their holdings in the Companys shares on 19 June 2015.
The shares were sold to institutional shareholders by way of a placing at a price of 330 pence per share.
There have been no changes in the numbers of shares owned by the Directors and their connected persons between the end of the year and the date of this report.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued DETAILS OF DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INCENTIVE PLANS Share Date of price Exercise Number of Face value at grant at grant price shares awarded grant Performance period Exercise period Richard Hayes LTIP 20.5.
In connection with his appointment, Geoff Cooper was given the option to invest 330,000 in the Company by means of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or alongside, the offer of shares conducted in conjunction with the IPO at the offer price of 225p per share.
Geoff took up this offer at the time of the IPO and agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary shares and this has entitled him, on each of the second and third anniversaries of the date of the completion of the IPO, to make further investments of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the offer price.
Approved by the Board of Card Factory plc on 4 April 2016 and signed on its behalf by Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 April 2016 66 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
