REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report In reaching a view on financial performance, the Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the satisfied itself that working capital recovery was not thedriver Remuneration Committees report for 2016. ofout-performance and the benefit of foreign exchange asthe poundsterling weakened over the year was more than offset OVERVIEW bythecommodity price impact.
The Committee considered During 2016 we operated our Policy, approved by shareholders management behaviour including non-financial metrics.
Safety inApril 2015, for the second of the intended three-year period.
outputs missed stretching objectives but personal and customer Wewere pleased to receive votes in support of our 2015 safety improved materially versus 2015 and process safety was Implementation Report from over 85% of our shareholders stable.
Employee engagement scores from a full survey taken notwithstanding some expressed concerns about the one-off duringthe most material organisational change period fell back, recruitment awards granted to Iain Conn.
The awards were particularly in the areas of greatest change.
The Committee also grantedas compensation for the forfeiture of unvested long-term considered the communications and investor reaction to the equity incentive plan awards from his previous employer and were a placing and post-placing developments.
Having considered all critical part of securing his employment in the face of significant ofthese factors, overall the Committee concluded that financial competition for his services.
Set out in detail on page 95 of this performance as reported was a fair reflection of management report is the Committees assessment of Iains performance performance in the year.
againstthe targets that were set in respect of thesecond and For past performance over the three-year performance period finaltranche of shares.
ending with 2016, the Group Economic Profit target applying PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR inboth long-term incentive plans operated under the previously The Board believes that the Executive Team has successfully approved policy the Long Term Incentive Scheme and the repositioned the strategy, organisation and priorities of the Group.
Deferredand Matching Share Scheme was not met, therefore The Board established targets for the year, the achievement there will be no vesting in 2017 and all of the awards made in ofwhich would enable delivery of the strategy over the medium April2014 will be forfeit.
term, in the knowledge that these would be very stretching for TOTAL REMUNERATION theGroupas a whole and successful achievement would As there were a number of Executive Directors appointed part requireexceptional leadership.
waythrough the prior year and 2016 has seen very strong in-year I am able to report that all targets have been achieved or performance, this Implementation Report will include materially exceededand the pace of change has resulted in greater increased total remuneration figures when compared to the prior progressalong the transformation journey than the Board year figures.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration couldhave reasonably expected.
A summary of the individual determined for each Executive is appropriate in thecontext of the assessment of each Executive Director against the demanding approved Policy and the significant in-year performance delivered.
personal objectives that were set for the year is set out on LOOKING FORWARD page93of this report.
In preparation for presentation of a remuneration policy to Following the plan for 2016 being set towards the end of 2015, shareholders at the AGM in 2018 the Committee plans to fully average commodity prices have fallen by 15% 30%, driven reviewexecutive remuneration during the forthcoming year bylower demand in Asia, US shale gas resilience, natural gas takinginto consideration the strategic direction of the Group, oversupply and continued high production by OPEC member appropriate ongoing alignment with that strategy and the states.
Whilst some of this price fall has been offset through continuing development of all stakeholders views regarding planned hedging, the impact on the Group was significant.
The Committee expects to consult with major However, underlying performance, which is a key consideration shareholders on any proposals in the latter months of the year.
inassessing Group operating cash flow growth, was very strong.
The key drivers were above plan delivery in the transformation andefficiency programme across the Group somewhat offsetting Lesley Knox gross margin pressures, most notably in UK Energy Supply & Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Services, Exploration & Production, Energy Marketing & Trading 23 February 2017 gross margin generation in trading and the gas asset book, andsignificant improvements in working capital management.
T he Board believes that the ExecutiveTeam has successfully repositioned the strategy, organisation and priorities oftheGroup.
Lesley Knox Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT REMUNERATION SUMMARY FOR 2016 STATEMENTS INFORMATION Remuneration Summary for 2016 SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PERFORMANCE 2016 The charts below set out the measures and their weighting inner circle and the performance achieved against the maximum outer circle for both the short-term Annual Incentive Plan and long-term Long Term Incentive Scheme and Deferred and Matching Share Scheme incentive arrangements operated during the year.
Short-term incentive targets Group financial performance adjusted operating cash flow of 2,610 million was required for target achievement and 2,741 million formaximum.
The threshold level was 2,349 million.
Individual strategic objectives achievement against strategic objectives aligned tothe Groups strategic priorities, measured in line with the Groups performance management process.
Short-term incentive outcome Figures in the charts below represent percentage of base salary for each Executive Director.
Achievement against individual strategic objectives is set out on page 93.
Iain Conn Jeff Bell Mark Hanan Mark Hodges 70 75 75 75 75 60 50 50 125 125 125 125 104 104 104 104 Adjusted operating cash ow Adjusted operating cash ow Adjusted operating cash ow Adjusted operating cash ow Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Strategic objectives Long-term incentive targets Long-term incentive outcome For the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and the Deferred andMatching Share Scheme DMSS, performance against Jeff Bell Mark Hanan GroupEconomic Profit EP, Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS and non-financial KPIs was measured over a three-year period ending with 2016.
Inaddition, a positive or negative TSRmultiplier isapplied to anyvesting outcome under the LTIS.
13 The EP and EPS performance targets have not been achieved.
17 19 24 Performance against the non-financial KPI dashboard across thethree-year period was strong, however, as a result of the 48 EPtarget not being met, the non-financial KPI portion of 58 23 theLTISaward will not vest.
28 Neither of the long-term incentive plans ending with the 2016 performance year will vest and therefore there will be no payout in2017.
Full details of the performance outcomes are set out onpage 94.
Group EP Group EP EPS EPS Non-financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs 84 MAXIMUM TOTAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY AND TOTAL REMUNERATION RECEIVED IN 2016 The chart below sets out the total remuneration received for the year for each Executive Director on the Board during 2016, prepared onthe same basis as the single figure for total remuneration table set out on page 92.
In addition, for comparison purposes, the chart provides an indication of minimum, on-target and maximum total remuneration opportunity, prepared on the same basis.
000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 Iain Opportunity Minimum total pay On-target total pay Maximum total pay Conn i 2016 Actual 2015 Actual Minimum Jeff Opportunity On-target total pay Maximum total pay total pay Bell 2016 Actual ii 2015 Actual Minimum On-target total pay Maximum total pay Mark Opportunity total pay Hanan 2016 Actual 2015 Actual Minimum On-target total pay Maximum total pay Mark Opportunity total pay Hodges Fixed remuneration 2016 Actual Short-term incentive iii 2015 Actual Recruitment award i Achievement against the performance conditions set for the final tranche of the recruitment award is disclosed on page 95. ii Jeff Bell was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2015.
His 2015 remuneration therefore represents 42% of a full year.
iii Mark Hodges was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2015.
His 2015 remuneration therefore represents 58% of a full year.
2016 CASH FLOW DISTRIBUTION TO STAKEHOLDERS 2016 % 2015 % The Committee monitors the relationship between the Directors totalremuneration and cash outflows to other stakeholders.
Asdemonstrated by the chart, the Directors aggregate total 0.08 0.05 remuneration for the year equates to 0.08% 2015: 0.05% oftheGroups operating cash flow.
33 36 35 34 9 12 19 22 To staff To staff To government To government To shareholders To shareholders Investing activities Investing activities To Directors To Directors Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY STATEMENTS INFORMATION Remuneration Policy Set out over the following pages is a summary of the Remuneration KPIs have been selected that align with our purpose: to deliver Policy that was approved by shareholders on 27 April 2015.
The full energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our customers, Remuneration Policy can be found at centrica.
and also support our long-term financial goals.
Inaddition, our underlying principles of operating safely and withanengaged EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION workforce are included.
The Committee believes that the remuneration arrangements are The KPIs, set out in detail on pages 18 and 19, influence the design completely aligned with the Executives underlying commitment to and underpin the selection of performance criteria used within the act in the best interests of sustainable shareholder value creation, incentive arrangements as demonstrated in the KPIs and incentives whilst ensuring behaviours remain consistent with the governance table below.
If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory, and values of the business.
theaward for any year may be reduced or forfeited, at the Key objectives of reward framework discretion of the Committee.
The Policy aims to deliver a remuneration package: In addition, Executives are subject to a minimum shareholding to attract and retain high calibre Executives in a challenging guideline.
Under the LTIP there are mandatory holding periods andcompetitive business environment: ofthree to five years from grant or award date, to provide further that delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable alignment with the returns to our shareholders.
compensation for each Executive: Remuneration principles that places a strong emphasis on performance, both the short the potential maximum remuneration that Executives could term and long term: receive is a key consideration when agreeing the level of strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives basepay and the performance related elements of the andthe delivery of sustainable value to shareholders: and remuneration package: that seeks to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement the Committee takes account of, and is sensitive to, shareholder ofperformance targets.
views, market changes, skills availability, competitive pressure and or the economic climate when considering Executive Reward framework remuneration.
In so doing, the Committee follows similar The core design of the total remuneration framework for Executives principles that apply when remuneration is considered for all ensures that a substantial portion of the maximum opportunity otheremployees within the Group: and isdependent upon performance as indicated in the chart below.
Totalremuneration comprises fixed pay and variable performance benchmarking against UK cross-industry comparator organisations related pay, which is further divided into short-term incentive of similar size and complexity is used to assist the Committee withaone-year performance period and long-term incentive inevaluating market movement and the relative competitive witha three-year performance period.
position of Executive remuneration to ensure that packages offered support the attraction and retention of high Short-term incentives relate to awards under the Annual Incentive calibreindividuals.
Plan AIP which is described on page 87.
Long-term incentives relate to awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which isdescribed on page 88.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Fixed Short-term Long-term remuneration incentive incentive Cash Shares KPIs and incentives KPI Incentive link Adjusted operating cash flow AOCF AIP primary financial measure Adjusted operating profit LTIP EP three-year measure Adjusted basic earnings per share EPS LTIP EPS growth measure Total shareholder return TSR AIP deferred share investment and minimum shareholding requirement Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Process safety LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Customer satisfaction LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Employee engagement LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard 86 Remuneration Policy table The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy that was approved at the AGM on 27 April 2015 and applies to Executives.
Purpose and Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy measures BASE PAY SALARY Reflects the scope Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking account of Ordinarily, base salary increases Not applicable.
performance, market conditions and pay in the Group inpercentage terms will be in line andresponsibility of the role and the skills asawhole.
Changes are usually effective from 1 April with increases awarded to other and experience of eachyear.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Increases may be made above this Salaries are set at level to take account of individual alevel sufficient to circumstances such as a change allow the Company in responsibility, progression in tocompete for therole or a significant increase international talent inthe scale or size of the role.
andto recruit, The base salary for an Executive motivateand retain will not exceed 1 million per individuals of the annum.
correct calibre to execute our strategy.
SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Designed to reward The AIP, together with the LTIP, replaces the previous Maximum of 200% of base salary.
Up to 75% of base the delivery of key AnnualIncentive Scheme AIS, Deferred and Matching Share salary based on Half the maximum is payable strategic priorities Scheme DMSS and LongTerm Incentive Scheme LTIS.
objectives aligned to The AIP is designed to incentivise and reward the Theminimum award is 0%.
the Groups strategic These priorities achievement of demanding financial and individual The maximum was 180% of priorities, with the position the Group strategically aligned performance objectives.
basesalary under the previously remainder based on forstrong short-term Following measurement of the performance outcome, half approved policy.
adjusted operating financial performance, ofthe AIP award is paid in cash.
The other half is required cash flow.
in service of longerThe 20% of base salary increase tobe deferred into shares, two-thirds of which are released term strategic goals.
inmaximum opportunity is offset Assessed over after three years and the remaining third after four years.
bythe 80% of base salary onefinancial year.
Dividends are payable on the shares during the reduction in maximum long-term restrictedperiod.
Up to 72% of base incentive opportunity and longer salary was based If overall business performance is not deemed satisfactory, deferral periods.
onindividual strategic an individuals AIP payment for the year may be reduced objectives under orforfeited, at the discretion of the Committee.
thepreviously Malus and clawback apply to the cash and share awards approved policy.
see policy table notes on page 90.
AIP timeline 50% paid in cash Performance period Period subject to clawback 50% awarded in shares 2 3 of shares released 1 3 of shares released Period subject to Period subject Performance period Period subject to malus malus clawback to clawback Award date Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY STATEMENTS INFORMATION Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy measures LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Assists with The LTIP simplifies the previous long-term incentive Maximum of 300% of base One-third based Executiveretention arrangements which were delivered under two salaryplus dividend equivalents.
onEPS over and incentivises an separateschemes.
thethree-year appropriate balance performance period.
LTIP awards are granted to Executives each year based The maximum was 380% between short-term onapercentage of base salary at the point of award.
ofbasesalary plus dividend One-third based on performance and Sharesvest at the end of a three-year performance equivalents under the absolute aggregate long-term value period, depending on the achievement against the previouslyapproved policy.
EPover the three-year creation for Companyperformance targets, but are not released performance period.
untilthefifth anniversary of the award date.
One-third based Encourages LTIP awards are usually delivered as conditional shares onnon-financial sustainable high which vest at the end of the three-year performance KPIdashboard.
Awards may also be granted as nil-cost options Where performance Provides a direct witha seven-year exercise period.
It is a requirement of falls between stated linkbetween theLTIP that the net shares are held for a further two years points, vesting is remuneration and following the vesting date.
Malus applies to the shares calculated on a KPIs, reinforcing duringthe three-year performance period and clawback straight-line basis.
thedesire for applies to theshares during the two-year retention period sustainable high seepolicy table notes on page 90.
The weighting to performance over non-financial KPIs has Dividend equivalents are calculated at the end of the thelong term.
marginally increased performance period on any conditional LTIP share awards from 30% to 33.3% ornil-cost options.
Dividend equivalents are paid as compared with the additional shares or as cash.
long-term incentive If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory, the award arrangements in forany year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion thepreviously ofthe Committee.
This reflects the Committees view ofthe appropriate balance between financial and non-financial measures at two-thirds one-third respectively.
LTIP timeline Award granted Performance tested and award vests Shares released Period subject to malus Period subject to clawback Three-year performance period Two-year holding period Award date Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 88 Purpose and Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy measures PENSION Positioned to Incoming Executives are entitled to participate in a 30% salary supplement for Not applicable.
provideacompetitive Companymoney purchase pension arrangement or to take ChiefExecutive and 25% post-retirement a fixed salary supplement calculated as a percentage of salarysupplement for all benefit, in a way that base salary, which is excluded from any bonus calculation otherExecutives.
manages the overall inlieu of pension entitlement.
This is consistent with the cost to the Company.
The Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit previously approved policy.
arrangements to new employees at any level, unless this isspecifically required by applicable legislation or an existingcontractual agreement.
Executives employed prior to 2013 are entitled to participate 40% salary supplement for in a Centrica pension arrangement or to receive a fixed Executives employed prior salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlement in to 2013. accordance with the terms of their contracts.
This is consistent with the Mark Hanafin is entitled to receive a salary supplement equal previously approved policy.
to 40% of his base salary in lieu of pension or to participate in a Company money purchase pension arrangement.
We would continue to honour defined benefit pension arrangements in the event of an individual being promoted tothe Board who retains a contractual entitlement to such apension benefit.
BENEFITS Positioned to ensure The Group offers Executives a range of benefits including Cash allowance in lieu of Not applicable.
competitiveness with some or all of: companycar 22,000 market practice.
a company-provided car and fuel, or a cash allowance inlieu: The benefit in kind value of life assurance and personal accident insurance: otherbenefits will not exceed health and medical insurance for the Executive and 5%of basesalary.
theirdependants: This is consistent with the health screening: and previously approved policy.
a contribution towards financial planning advice.
RELOCATION ANDEXPATRIATE ASSISTANCE To enable the Group to Assistance may include but is not limited to removal Maximum of 100% of base salary.
recruit or promote the andother relocation costs, housing or temporary This is consistent with the right individual into a accommodation, education, home leave, repatriation previously approved policy.
role, to retain key skills andtaxequalisation.
and to provide career This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS Provide an opportunity UK-based Executives are entitled to participate in the Maximum contribution limits Not applicable.
for employees to HMRC-approved Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan SIP areset by legislation.
Levels of voluntarily invest in on the same terms as all other eligible employees.
The participation allowed by the Board theCompany.
Sharesave plan offers a three or five-year savings period, are within these limits and apply to with up to a 20% discount to the market value of the all participants.
The SIP currently sharesat the point of grant.
awards one free matching share for every two partnership shares The SIP currently offers partnership and matching shares.
purchased, up to a maximum of Dividends paid on SIP shares may be reinvested in the plan.
22matching shares per month, although the plan allows for This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY STATEMENTS INFORMATION Remuneration Policy continued Policy table notes The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments Economic profit EP and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in EP is adjusted operating profit after share of joint venture interest less linewith the Remuneration Policy set out above, where the terms of atax charge based on the tax rate relevant to the different business thepayment were agreed before the policy came into effect, at a time segments and after deduction of a capital charge.
The capital charge when the relevant individual was not an Executive of the Company or, iscalculated as capital employed multiplied by the Groups weighted inthe opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration average cost of capital.
fortheindividual becoming an Executive of the Company.
For these Where appropriate, expenditure on assets and related costs that are purposes payments include the amounts paid in order to satisfy awards notyet in use pre-productive capital is excluded from capital employed.
ofvariable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, theterms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Further details of these performance measures are provided in notes 2, 4 f and 10 of the financial statements.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes Non-financial KPI dashboard orto take account of a change in legislation without obtaining The non-financial KPI dashboard is designed to reward sustained high shareholder approval for that amendment.
performance over the entire three-year performance period.
The equally weighted measures are: PENSION ARRANGEMENTS APPLYING TO EXECUTIVES lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR : Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme CUPS significant process safety event: All registered scheme benefits are subject to HMRC guidelines British Gas net promoter score NPS : andtheLifetime Allowance.
Direct Energy NPS: and The CUPS defined contribution DC section provides benefits for employee engagement.
individuals not eligible to join the CUPS defined benefit DB section Employee engagement survey data is collected by an external provider andfor whom registered scheme benefits are expected to exceed andcompared against an independent benchmark database.
The CUPS DC section is offered as a direct alternative to a cash salary supplement.
Deloitte LLP reviewed the non-financial KPIs linked to executive remuneration and provided limited assurance using the International The CUPS DB section was closed to new members in October 2002.
Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised.
The 2016 CUPS is unfunded but the benefits are secured by a charge over assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting, are available at certainCentrica assets.
An appropriate provision in respect of the centrica.
accrued value of these benefits has been made in the Companys For each measure, three performance zones have been established, balancesheet.
represented by the following indicators: PERFORMANCE MEASURES High performance zone Adjusted earnings per share EPS EPS is the Companys basic earnings per share adjusted for Median performance zone exceptionalitems and certain re-measurements net of taxation.
Low performance zone Adjusted operating cash flow AOCF AOCF is the net cash flow from operating activities which includes MALUS AND CLAWBACK taxespaid adjusted to include dividends received from joint ventures The Committee can apply malus that is reduce the number of shares andassociates and to exclude payments relating to exceptional items, inrespect of which an award vests or delay the vesting of awards if UKdefined benefit pension deficit contributions and movements in itconsiders itappropriate where a participant has engaged in gross variation margin and cash collateral that are included in net debt.
misconduct or displayed inappropriate management behaviour which fails toreflect thegovernance and values of the business or where the results for any periodhave been restated or appear inaccurate or misleading.
Where an award has vested, the resulting shares will generally be held fora period during which they may be subject to clawback in the event that the Committee determines that one or more of the circumstances above has occurred.
90 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Remuneration Policy Centricas policy on Non-Executive Directors Non-Executives fees takes into account the need to attract high quality individuals, , time commitment and market practice.
Terms of appointment Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts.
Their appointments are subject to Letters of Appointment andthe Articles of Association.
Remuneration Policy table Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link to strategy measures CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Sufficient level to The fee levels for the Chairman are reviewed every The maximum level of fees Not applicable.
secure the services twoyearsby the Remuneration Committee.
payableto Non-Executives, ofindividuals inaggregate, is set out in The fee levels of the Non-Executives are reviewed possessing the skills, theArticles of Association.
everytwoyears by the Executive Committee.
knowledge and experience to support Non-Executives are paid a base fee for their services.
and oversee the Whereindividuals serve as Chairman of a Committee Executive Directors oftheBoard, additional fees are payable.
The Senior intheir execution of Independent Director also receives an additional fee.
theBoards approved Fee levels from 1 January 2016: strategies and Base fee 72,500 per annum.
The following additional fees apply: Chairman of Audit Committee 25,000 per annum: Chairman of Remuneration Committee 20,000 perannum: Chairman of Safety, Health, Environment, Security andEthics Committee 20,000 per annum: and Senior Independent Director 20,000 per annum.
Fee levels from May 2010 to 31 December 2015: Base fee 65,000 per annum.
The following additional fees applied: Chairman of Audit Committee 23,000 per annum: Chairman of Remuneration Committee 20,000 perannum: Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 20,000 per annum: Chairman of Safety, Health, Environment, Security andEthics Committee established July 2015 20,000per annum: and Senior Independent Director 20,000 per annum.
The Company reserves the right to pay a Committee membership fee in addition to the base fees.
Non-Executives are able to use 50% of their fees, after appropriate payroll withholdings, to purchase Centrica shares.
Dealing commission and stamp duty is paid by theNon-Executive.
The Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive plans or pension schemes.
Non-Executives will be reimbursed for business expenses relating to the performance of their duties including travel, accommodation and subsistence.
In certain circumstances these, or other incidental items, may be considered a benefitin kind and if so may be grossed up for any tax due.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors Annual Remuneration Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION IN 2016 This report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
ii Mark Hodges was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 June 2015.
iii Joan Gillman was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 11 October 2016. iv Stephen Hester was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2016. v Mike Linn resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 18 April 2016. vi Ian Meakins resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2016. vii Scott Wheway was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2016. viii Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical benefits and financial planning advice.
Non-taxable benefits include matching shares received underthe SIP.
Benefits paid to Mark Hodges in 2016 include relocation support paid in line with Centricas relocation policy.
ix The long-term incentives include the value of the LTIS and DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2017, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2016.
Theperformance targets have not been met and these awards therefore will not vest.
Details of the performance outcomes are set out on page 94. x The recruitment award shares vesting in April 2017 have been valued to calculate an estimated payout using the share price at 31 December 2016 which was 234.1p.
Thevalue of the estimated dividend equivalent shares has been included.
The shares will be held until April 2018. xi The value of the recruitment award shares vesting in April 2016 has been recalculated based on the share price on the date of vest which was 223.5p.
The previous disclosure in the 2015 single figure table used an estimated share price.
xii Notional contributions to the CUPS DC scheme for Mark Hanafin and Jeff Bell less an allowance for CPI inflation on this opening balance of 1.3% in 2015, no allowance applicable in 2016 have been includedinthis table as if CUPS DC were a cash balance scheme.
xiii Iain Conn and Mark Hodges are entitled to receive a salary supplement of 30% and 25% of base pay respectively.
92 reviews, new KPIs for internal and external use, a new Group Base salary fees Performance Report and improved quality of management Base salaries for Executives were reviewed on 1 April 2016 and information generally.
The salaries will be reviewed during the course of2017 as part of the normal annual cycle.
Through his leadership of the Centrica Pensions Committee thetriennial pensions valuation process reached a successful Base fees for Non-Executives were reviewed in November 2015 conclusion within the proposed boundary conditions.
and were increased on 1 January 2016 from 65,000 to 72,500 perannum.
The additional fee for the Chairman of the Audit Overall, Jeff has grown confidently into his role as Chief Committee was also increased from 23,000 to 25,000 per FinancialOfficer and exceeded expectations in what was annum.
Theincreases were in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Prior to this increase, Non-Executives fees had been at the Mark Hanafin samelevel since2010.
Mark Hanafin expertly guided the successful establishment of Bonus Annual Incentive Plan AIP thenew global Distributed Energy & Power business and ensured The financial performance targets for the 2016 AIP are set out astrong set-up for the future with some excellent hires and the intheRemuneration Summary.
The charts on page 84 under acquisition of ENER-G Cogen.
short-term incentive outcomes indicate the extent of achievement Energy Marketing & Trading beat its plan by some margin.
foreach Executive receiving a payment relating to 2016, for each Theneworganisation following a smooth relocation is working well, component of the AIP.
and material growth was delivered through the Neas Energy Performance against individual strategic objectives in 2016 acquisition andthe expansion of the LNG book.
In line with the Groups annual performance management process, Mark showed skilled handling of strategic disposals and acquisitions.
each Executive had a set of stretching individual objectives aligned As well as the two key acquisitions, both wind farms and Trinidad to the Groups strategic priorities, for 2016.
Set out below is the andTobago have been successfully divested, with Canada also Committees assessment of the achievement against these ontrack for sale.
Marks overall portfolio exceeded its cash flow targets.
This was Iain Conn particularly impressive in Exploration & Production which experienced Iain Conn delivered an outstanding performance, laying the agreed the most challenging environment in 20 years.
strategic foundation for growth at a pace and to an extent that far exceeded the stretching expectations of the Board while ensuring He ensured that cost efficiency targets were met or exceeded.
that all financial outputs were met or exceeded in a year when There was excellent progress in reducing E&P lifting and other commodity prices continued to be a strong drag on cash flows.
Iain has established a strong leadership tone in matters of safety, Strong safety standards were maintained and significant progress ethics, compliance and management discipline with a commensurate was made in tightening discipline, improving reporting and improvement in the performance potential, resilience and risk profile developing capability.
This underpinned delivery of very strong momentum Overall, Mark made significant progress in reshaping the inthe drive for greater efficiency resulting in greater than planned businessin line with the Group Operating Model against a cost reductions and the leeway to follow differentiated strategies .
Mark Hodges Under his guidance, material progress has been made in repositioning Mark Hodges has more than delivered on all fronts, managing the portfolio with a focus on creating a future pathway for Exploration byfar the largest change agenda in the Groups history, delivering & Production and the establishment of strong momentum in the excellent financial outcomes, building capability and changing the new customer-facing business units.
The repositioning required organisation, behaviours and mind-set.
His leadership style has shifts in organisation, capabilities, systems, processes and culture been pragmatic, Group-minded and delivery-oriented.
ofa scale that required very considerable skill, diligence and imagination to achieve.
Although employee engagement suffered Mark has effectively grasped the challenges and helped to ensure modestly during this difficult period of change, personnel safety an enhanced customer experience at reduced cost, with significant levels, customer satisfaction and complaints levels all started efficiencies delivered and customer outcomes improved materially, tostrongly move in the right direction.
with complaints down 31% in UK Home and 22% in UK Business.
Iain is proving to be a very strong CEO, well suited to the challenges A new business-to-consumer participation strategy was agreed faced by Centrica in terms of its need to adapt rapidly to deliver with clear pathways established for the growth of Hive and our profitable growth in a significantly changed strategic context while wider technological capability.
Downstream profits were maintained establishing a reputation as a company that is fully in tune with during delivery of the cost efficiency programme, despite a theexpectation of its stakeholders and society at large.
reduction in customer holdings and gross margin compression.
Jeff Bell He showed strong leadership in the drive towards an incident free Jeff Bell played a key role in delivering against the financial targets workplace, with employee injury frequency rates and customer andaccelerating the realisation of the group cost efficiency targets.
Along with the improvements in the debt position, and working Under Marks direction, Connected Home has been successfully capital recovery, he also engaged proactively with the rating established as a rapidly growing global business unit with a agencies with the result that strong investment grade credit NPSof 65 for customers with multi-connected products.
Markhas exceeded the financial plan for his portfolio in a challenging He led a tightening up of core finance management processes and environment, as well as building a constructive relationship with improved the capability of the Finance function through a number ourregulators and reinforcing British Gas as a responsible of critical senior appointments.
Jeff has made real progress in marketparticipant.
implementing and leading new performance management and review processes, with added functional quarterly performance Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentive plans vesting in 2017 Performance conditions The performance conditions relating to the LTIS awards vesting in 2017 are set out below, together with an explanation of the achievement against these performance conditions.
Vesting criteria Performance conditions over three-year period 35% on EPS growth against RPI growth Full vesting for EPS growth exceeding RPI growth by 30% Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed RPI growth by 9% Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between these points 35% on absolute aggregate EP Full vesting for aggregate EP of 3,400 million Zero vesting if aggregate EP is below 2,600 million Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between these points 30% on non-financial KPI dashboard As disclosed below Positive negative multiplier on TSR 0.667 multiplier for Index -7% per annum and 1.5 multiplier for Index 7% per annum, subject to performanceagainst the FTSE 100 Index acap at the face value of the award.
Where performance falls between stated points, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis Performance outcome Non-financial KPI update for long-term incentive plans Earnings per share EPS vesting in future years EPS growth during the three-year period ending with 2016 did not KPI performance under the LTIP exceed RPI growth by 9%.
Consequently, the EPS portion of the Set out below is the achievement against the KPI dashboard 2014LTIS award will not vest.
forthefirst two years of measurement for LTIP awards granted in2015and 2016.
Economic Profit EP Aggregate EP achieved during the three-year period ending Performance period LTIP awards granted with2016 was 1,891 million when compared to a threshold in 2015 and due to vest in 2018 levelof2,600million and a maximum level of 3,400 million.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Consequently, the EP portion of the 2014 LTIS awards, Measure 2015 2016 2017 andtheDMSS matching awards, will not vest.
Lost time injury frequencyrate LTIFR LTIS non-financial KPI dashboard Significant process Throughout each three-year performance period, for each median safety event performance zone outcome, 5% of the KPI shares will be forfeited and for each low performance zone outcome, 10% of the British Gas net promoter i ii score NPS KPIshares will be forfeited.
ii Direct Energy NPS High performance zone Median performance zone Employee engagement Low performance zone The non-financial KPI results in 2014, 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Performance period LTIP awards granted in 2016 and due to vest in 2019 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Performance period LTIS awards granted Measure 2016 2017 2018 in 2014 and due to vest in 2017 Lost time injury Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Measure 2014 2015 2016 frequencyrate LTIFR Lost time injury Significant process frequencyrate LTIFR safety event Significant process British Gas net promoter i ii safety event score NPS British Gas net promoter ii Direct Energy NPS i ii score NPS Employee engagement ii Direct Energy NPS i In 2015, British Gas NPS methodology changed to focus on experiences at the Employee engagement end of key customer journeys which is the LTIP NPS KPI.
In 2016, British Gas journey NPS decreased to -1 low performance zone, from an originally reported Performance against the non-financial KPI dashboard for the 2015 score of 4 median performance zone which has subsequently been restated to 1 following survey changes that refocused measurement on key three-year period ending with 2016 resulted in 70% of the KPI customer journeys.
The outgoing British Gas methodology based on contact and portion of the 2014 LTIS award becoming eligible for vesting.
brand scores used under the former LTIS, with the last cycle ending in 2016, was As a result of the EP performance target not being met for the 25 median performance zone, down from 28 high performance zone.
For Direct Energy NPS, under both LTIP and LTIS, performance rose strongly to 43 three-year period ending with 2016, the KPI portion of the 2014 high performance zone, from 37 high performance zone.
There will therefore be no payout ii The NPS disclosed on this page are the former metrics, used for executive undertheLTIS in 2017. remuneration, and differ from the new Brand NPS reported elsewhere in the Annual Report and in financial reporting see page 19 for more information.
The new Brand NPS are seen as important operational metrics and they improved across all geographies in 2016.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR KPIS ON PAGES 18 AND 19 94 Group Chief Executive recruitment award granted was materially repositioned during the year to drive the new in2015 Groupstrategy.
Improved succession plans have also been put In accordance with the Companys approved recruitment policy inplace.
and as previously announced, the Committee agreed to provide Gaps in capability in the areas of Technology & Engineering, compensation to Iain Conn for the forfeiture of existing unvested GroupMarketing, and Ethics and Compliance were identified long-term incentive awards in the form of conditional Centrica shares.
The need to establish a Group Two awards of conditional shares were granted to Iain Conn in Information Systems IS function with digital capability was identified, resulting in centralisation of IS.
April2015 see below, the first with a face value equal to 925,000 vesting on the first anniversary of the award date and the second In the business unit that will now be known as the Centrica with a face value equal to 1,850,000 vesting on the second Consumer division British Gas has been completely reorganised, anniversary of theaward date and released in April 2018. thelargest restructuring since Centrica was incorporated in 1997, and significant efficiency, cultural and capability changes have First award 282,634 shares vested in April 2016 been identified and delivered, all heavily influenced by Iains focus Second award718,223 shares due to vest April 2017, subject to on satisfying the changing needs of the customer and founded performance achievement ona new common operating model.
A new leadership structure was established and new senior hires made.
Connected Home In accordance with the minimum shareholding guidelines, any shares wasestablished as a global business unit and capability built for released following the sale of sufficient shares to cover the income the technology pipeline and business development including tax and National Insurance contributions due on vesting will be held thesuccessful acquisition of Flowgem.
until his shareholding is above the minimum guideline for Executives.
The business unit that will now be known as the Centrica The vesting of both awards is subject to the achievement of Businessdivision has also seen fundamental redesign, with the personal strategic objectives.
Three-quarters of each award will vest establishment of Distributed Energy & Power andreshaping of ifthe Committee is satisfied that Iain Conns performance, inrelation Energy Marketing & Trading.
With direction from Iain, targeted to the objectives set, has at least matched the expectations of strategic acquisitions were pursued and secured, including theBoard.
Each award may vest in full if the Committee considers Panoramic Power, ENER-G Cogen and Neas Energy.
hisperformance to have significantly exceeded expectations.
Iain established a new reputation framework during the year, IftheCommittee considers his performance to have been below whichwas reviewed by the Board.
Quarterly standardised expectations, the shares will not vest and the award will be forfeit.
reputation measurement was put in place with the Reputation In reviewing Iain Conns performance, the Committee stated that Institute, and the Group now has a clear Corporate Affairs itwould consider progress against the following objectives: Engagement Plan to drive reputation.
strategy: to establish a sustainable growth strategy for Centrica There has been a demonstrable improvement in the external that is attractive to and earns the support of all key stakeholders beliefin Centrica as a consumer-centric company as evidenced expected by end Q3 2015 : byhigher net promoter scores, significant interest in partnering organisational structure: to consider organisational structure, from high profile competitors and the ability to attract talent processes, systems, culture and costs and effect any change incustomer-focused areas.
deemed appropriate expected by end Q4 2015 : Engagement with the UK Government, regulators and opinion capability: to ensure that all the capabilities crucial to the formers has been very proactive and Iain has personally successof the growth strategy have robust development plans participated through bilateral meetings, speeches, blogs on that can be delivered at a pace commensurate with competitive subjects such as energy policy, the EU, Brexit and industrial demands expected by end Q2 2016 : and strategy, all of this is building Centricas reputation as a leading, reputation: to build relationships with society necessary to serious, professional and forward-thinking company.
achieve a demonstrable improvement in the external belief in Centrica as a consumer-centric company, UK national leader, Under Iains guidance, we continue to develop an open and influential in Europe and North America and a responsible constructive relationship with our key regulators.
The two-year marketparticipant expected by end Q4 2016.
CMA investigation into the UK energy market was handled with huge effort and expertise, underlining the Groups role as a These measures are in addition to but complement the objectives responsible market participant.
In the energy supply business, our shift in pricing stance and Performance achievement focuson improved customer service has resulted in a material As previously explained, the Committee made a two-part award reduction in complaints and NPS results at or exceeding plan.
aspart of the CEO recruitment process in order to secure the Iainhas also driven an increased focus on our work with vulnerable appointment of the Boards strongly favoured candidate.
The customers and our apprenticeship and recruitment schemes.
Committee considered carefully investor feedback on the use of subjective criteria in respect of these awards.
After reflection the Investors are supportive of the Group strategy.
Communication Committee believes that in this case they have served their purpose regarding the equity placing was not as well managed as it as intended.
However, although Iain Conns performance since shouldhave been but feedback from investors suggests that hisappointment has surpassed expectations, we have determined theyremain positive about the Groups direction and progress.
the vesting level in deference to the external sensitivity to the In light of these achievements, the Committee is satisfied that making of such awards and total remuneration for the year.
IainConn has met the expectations of the Board as set out Under Iains leadership, a new organisational model was developed intheobjectives and as a result 75% the on-target level of for the whole Group, including the move to three new global growth thesecond and final tranche of the recruitment award will vest.
business units and more centralised functions.
He has led the Theshares will vest in April 2017 and will be released in April 2018. recruitment of a number of key individuals and overall capability The estimated value of the shares due to vest, including dividend equivalents, hasbeen included in the single figure table on page 92.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Pension Iain Conn and Mark Hodges elected to receive salary supplements of 30% and 25% of base salary respectively, in lieu of participating inaCentrica pension plan.
These salary supplements are included in the single figure for total remuneration table on page 92.
Jeff Bell is entitled to receive a salary supplement of 25% of base pay or participate in the CUPS DC Scheme.
As Mark Hanafin was anExecutive prior to 2013, he is entitled to receive a salary supplement of 40% of base pay or participate in the CUPS DC Scheme.
During the year, they both participated in the CUPS DC Scheme and received an unfunded promise equal to 25% and 40% of base payrespectively.
Notional contributions to the CUPS DC Scheme have been included in the single figure for total remuneration table as if it was a cash balance scheme and therefore notional investment returns for the year have been included.
The notional pension fund balances are disclosed below.
Pension benefits earned by Directors in the CUPS DC Scheme audited Total notional Total notional pension fund pension fund as at as at 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 i CUPS DC Scheme Jeff Bell 197,101 57,600 Mark Hanafin 1,085,701 818,860 i The retirement age for the CUPS DC Scheme is 62.
Awards granted in 2016 LTIP awards granted in 2016 audited Value Number 000 of shares i ii Vesting date Iain Conn 1,221,498 2,775 April 2019 Jeff Bell 726,296 1,650 April 2019 Mark Hanafin 825,336 1,875 April 2019 Mark Hodges 825,336 1,875 April 2019 i Awards were made in 2016 to Executives based on a value of 300% of salary.
The performance conditions relating to these awards are set out below.
ii The share price used to calculate the number of shares granted was 227.18p, being the average closing share price over five business days immediately preceding thegrantdate of 1 April 2016.
LTIP performance conditions for awards granted in 2016 Vesting criteria Performance conditions over three-year period 1 3 based on EPS growth over Full vesting for EPS growth of 24% or more the 3-year period 201618 Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed 9% Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 0% and 100% between these points 1 3 based on absolute aggregate EP Full vesting for aggregate EP of 3,500 million over the 3-year period 201618 Zero vesting if aggregate EP is below 1,500 million Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 0% and 100% between these points 1 3 based on non-financial KPI dashboard As disclosed on page 94 overthe 3-year period 201618 96 LTIP timeline Vesting of shares based 2016 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 on performance Award Performance period Holding period Release Directors interests in shares number of shares audited The table below shows the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of the Directors on the Board at the end of the year together withthe minimum shareholding guideline for the Executives, which is 200% of salary, and the achievement against the guideline.
Also included to provide full disclosure but not included as part of the minimum shareholder guideline calculation are details of shares owned by the Executives that are subject to continued service, unvested share awards that are subject to company performance conditions and fully vested unexercised nil-cost share options.
Executives have a period of five years from appointment to the Board, or any material change in the minimum shareholding requirement, to meet the guideline.
Unvested share awards subject to company performance Shares owned conditions Shares Shares subject to incl awards Fully vested owned owned Achievement continued granted in unexercised outright as at outright as at Minimum as at service as at 2016 as at options 31 December 31 December shareholding 31 December 31 December 31 December as at 2015 2016 guideline 2016 2016 2016 31 December i i % of salary % of salary ii iii 2016 Executives iv Iain Conn 140,812 663,219 200 168 2,882,733 v Jeff Bell 87,910 238,416 200 101 209,962 1,333,898 vi Mark Hanafin 363,863 518,550 200 194 99,992 2,293,203 215,261 vii Mark Hodges 320 125,817 200 47 374 1,462,506 Non-Executives Rick Haythornthwaite 33,476 34,721 Margherita Della Valle 24,653 37,308 Joan Gillman Stephen Hester 20,700 Lesley Knox 14,427 15,076 Carlos Pascual Steve Pusey 21,570 35,151 Scott Wheway 10,187 i These shares are owned outright by the Director or a connected person and they are not subject to continued service or performance conditions.
They include shares purchased in April 2016 with deferred Annual Incentive Plan AIP funds which have mandatory holding periods of 3 and 4 years.
ii Shares owned subject to continued service are DMSS deferred awards, SIP matching shares that have not yet been held for the 3 year holding period and for Jeff Bell, shares that were awarded in 2014 and 2015 under the Share Award Scheme and the On Track Incentive Plan, before he was appointed to the Board.
iii Shares and options that are subject to the achievement of long-term performance conditions are the awards granted under the LTIS in 2014, matching awards granted under theDMSS in 2014 and 2015, recruitment awards granted to Iain Conn, and include all awards granted in 2016 which are disclosed elsewhere in this Remuneration Report.
iv Shares owned outright include 100,000 shares purchased directly by Iain Conn during the year.
Following the release and allotment of shares in April 2017, it is estimated that IainConn will hold shares with a value equal to 330% of salary.
v Following the release and allotment of shares in April 2017, it is estimated that Jeff Bell will hold shares with a value equal to 207% of salary.
vi Following the release and allotment of shares in April 2017, it is estimated that Mark Hanafin will hold shares with a value equal to 281% of salary.
vii Following the allotment of shares in April 2017, it is estimated that Mark Hodges will hold shares with a value equal to 134% of salary.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Percentage change in Group Chief Executives Fees received for external appointments remuneration compared with other employees of Executive Directors The table below shows the percentage change in base pay salary, In 2016, Iain Conn received 121,000 97,500 in 2015 as a taxable benefits and bonus annual incentive payments between non-executive director of BT Group plc.
2015and 2016 for Iain Conn, compared with a comparator group Relative importance of spend on pay of UK employees, over the same period of time.
The following table sets out the amounts paid in dividends and staffand employee costs for the years ended 31 December 2015 Group and 2016.
Chief Executive Employees % change % change 2016 2015 % Salary and fees 0.00 1.75 m m Change Taxable benefits 0.00 0.99 Dividends 532 387 37 Annual incentive 30.64 28.57 Staff and i employeecosts 2,183 2,126 3 The comparator group includes management and technical or specialist employees based in the UK in Level 2 to Level 6 where Level i Staff and employee costs are as per note 5 in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
1 is the Group Chief Executive.
The employees selected have been Payments for loss of office employed in their role throughout 2015 and2016 togivea meaningful During 2016, there were no payments made for loss of office.
The group has been chosen as the employees have aremuneration package with asimilar structure tothe Group Funding of share schemes in 2016 ChiefExecutive, including base salary, benefits andannual bonus.
During 2016, market purchased shares, held in trust, were used tosatisfy outstanding allocations under DMSS deferred and Pay for performance investment shares, LTIS 2014, the Restricted Share Scheme and The table below shows the Group Chief Executives total remuneration the On Track Incentive Plan conditional share plans for Centrica over the last eight years and the achieved annual variable and employees below the executive level.
Treasury shares were used long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage oftheplanmaximum.
tosatisfy therelease ofshares or exercise of options under the DMSS, LTIS, the Share Award Scheme and On Track Incentive Group Plan conditional share plans for Centrica employees below the Chief Executive Annual bonus Long-term single figure payout incentive executivelevel, andCentricas all-employee share plans.
At of total against max vesting against 31December 2016, 50,833,460 shares were held in treasury remuneration opportunity max opportunity 2015:58,705,016, following the share repurchase programme Year 000 % % throughout 2013 and2014.
Iain Conn Advice to the Remuneration Committee 2016 4,151 82 0 The membership of the Remuneration Committee during 2016 2015 3,025 63 0 isset out in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report Sam Laidlaw onpage 79.
2014 3,272 34 35 The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group HR Director, 2013 2,235 50 0 GroupGeneralCounsel & Company Secretary and Deputy GroupHRDirector & Group Head of Reward are normally invited 2012 5,709 61 67 toattendeach Committee meeting and provide advice and 2011 5,047 50 59 guidanceto the Committee, other than in respect of their 2010 5,322 91 62 ownremuneration.
2009 4,627 92 73 The Committee also has access to detailed external information andresearch on market data and trends from independent The performance graph below shows Centricas TSR performance consultants.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte was appointed by the against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over the eight-year Committee in 2011, following a competitive tender process, period to 31 December 2016.
The FTSE 100 Index has been asindependent external adviser.
chosen as it is an index of similar sized companies and Centrica In addition, Deloitte was appointed by the Company in 2014 has been a constituent member throughout the period.
toprovide a TSR monitoring and reporting service.
The fees forTSR reports provided to the Committee on completion of Total return indices Centrica and FTSE 100 theLTISperformance cycles during 2016 amounted to 1,200.
Deloittealso provided quarterly TSR reports and updates totheCompany which were used to keep the general LTIS 220 populationregularly updated with TSR performance.
200 Deloitte has also provided advice to Centrica globally during 180 2016in the areas of employment taxes, share schemes, 160 pensions, corporate finance, management consulting 140 andinternalaudit.
120 100 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Centrica return index FTSE 100 return index Source: Datastream 98 CHANGES SINCE 1 JANUARY 2017 During the year, Centrica announced its intention to tender fortheaudit contract in the second half of 2016.
To avoid any Share Incentive Plan SIP independence restrictions, the Committee appointed New During the period from 1 January 2017 to 23 February 2017, BridgeStreet consultants, part of Aon Consulting Ltd Aon, MarkHanafin and Mark Hodges both acquired 174 shares inMarch 2016 onan interim basis to provide training andinsight andIainConn acquired 88 shares throughthe SIP.
aswell as independent advice to the Committee untilthe The Remuneration Report has been approved by the outcomeof the audittender was announced.
BoardofDirectors and signed on its behalf.
The fees for the advice including preparation for and attendance atCommittee meetings amounted to 16,200.
Grant Dawson Aon has also provided advice and services to Centrica globally Group General Counsel & Company Secretary during 2016 in the areas of payroll and workforce administration 23 February 2017 aswell as system and process implementation.
The Committee will consider the appointment of a permanent independent external adviser during the course of 2017.
The Committee takes into account the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct when dealing with its advisers.
TheCommittee is satisfied that the advice it received during theyear was objective and independent and that the provision ofany other services by Deloitte and Aon in no waycompromises their independence.
2016 VOTING At the AGM held on 18 April 2016, shareholders approved theDirectors Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended 31December 2015.
Below are the results in respect of the resolution, which required a simple majority of 50% of the votes castto be infavour in order for the resolution to be passed: Directors Remuneration Report Votes for % Votes against % 3,082,860,058 85.49 523,100,568 14.51 70,713,647 votes were withheld.
A full schedule in respect of shareholder voting on the above andallresolutions at the 2016 AGM is available at centrica.
IMPLEMENTATION IN THE NEXT FINANCIAL YEAR No changes to the Policy are anticipated in 2017.
Awards will be granted in line with the limits set out in the Policy table.
Performance measures and targets for the short and long-term incentive plans align with the Groups strategy and therefore willremain unchanged.
Adjusted operating cash flow targets are considered commercially sensitive until the year end and will therefore be disclosed retrospectively in the Remuneration Report for the year in question.
Base salaries for Executives will be reviewed during the course of2017 as part of the normal annual cycle taking account of performance, market conditions and pay in the Group as a whole.
Nochanges to pensionsor benefits are anticipated.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99
