Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 60 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration This report sets out our approach to remuneration for the groups employees and directors for the 2016 financial year.
Bridget Macaskill, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This report has been prepared in compliance with Schedule At a Glance 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups How we performed Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and As reported in the Financial Overview section on pages 14 to the listing rules.
It has been approved by the board.
Certain 19 of the Strategic Report, the group has achieved a good parts of this report are audited by the companys auditor performance in more challenging market conditions, driven Deloitte LLP and are marked as audited for clarity.
by the consistent and disciplined implementation of our strategy and business model.
The group delivered continued Annual Statement from the Remuneration profit growth and strong returns for shareholders, with Committee Chair 233.6 million adjusted operating profit and a return on On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to equity RoE of 18.9%.
The key performance indicators with present the report on directors remuneration for the 2016 regard to remuneration are shown in the table below.
The report which follows is split into three profits increased, the financial performance element of the sections: bonuses for the executive directors EDs have decreased slightly this year, mainly driven by the marginal reduction in Governance page 62 RoE.
The single total figures of remuneration have all This section of the report covers the objectives, decreased, primarily due to the impact of share price responsibilities, membership and activities of the Committee movement.
Key performance indicator 2016 2015 The Directors Remuneration Policy pages 63 to 71 Return on equity 18.9% 19.5% The groups policy on directors remuneration and the key Adjusted operating profit 233.6 million 224.9 million factors taken into account in setting the policy are covered in this section.
This policy was approved by shareholders for Adjusted earnings per 1 the following three years at the AGM on 20 November 2014. share growth 53.8% 79.0% Total shareholder return The Annual Report on Remuneration pages 71 to 81 2 per annum 10.0% 33.9% This section reports on the payments and awards made to Distributions to shareholders 84.1 million 79.0 million the directors and details the link between company 1 For the three year periods ended 31 July 2016 and 31 July 2015. performance and remuneration for the 2016 financial year.
2 For the three year periods ended 31 July 2016 and 31 July 2015 based on the The Annual Report on Remuneration together with this average three month share price prior to that date.
annual statement is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 17 November 2016.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 61 Key developments Compensation structures need to evolve to meet legal and regulatory requirements, the commercial challenges as well as the interests of our shareholders.
It was anticipated that during the 2016 financial year, clarification of how to apply the amendments made to the Capital Requirements Directive by the European Banking Authority would impact, and possibly require a redesign of, the Remuneration Policy.
However, the uncertainty surrounding the UKs implementation of the Capital Requirements Directive has meant we have deferred the redesign of the Remuneration Policy until the 2017 financial year.
Please refer to the Looking Forward to 2017 section on page 62 for further information.
During the year we have continued to develop the governance within our remuneration framework, and have provided greater disclosure on achievements against both financial targets and personal goals increasing the transparency of how these link to EDs individual annual bonuses.
This is presented on pages 72 to 75.
Senior management succession planning is a key focus of the directors and links into the groups remuneration policy, which sets out the parameters for EDs compensation should they leave the business.
In light of Stephen Hodges decision to retire, the compensation paid to him during his notice period and upon leaving the business will be in line with the remuneration policy and current views on good governance.
Whilst Stephens compensation for 2017 has yet to be determined, it has been agreed that Stephen will not receive a 2016 LTIP award recognising that he will not be in the business for the majority of the long-term performance period.
Major Decisions on Remuneration for the Financial Year Managing director and Group head of legal Chief executive Banking chief executive Group finance director and regulatory affairs 1 2 Preben Prebensen Stephen Hodges Jonathan Howell Elizabeth Lee Previous salary 540,000 485,000 408,000 367,500 Salary with effect from 1 August 2016 540,000 485,000 408,000 330,750 Percentage salary increase 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 2016 bonus 1,545,480 1,396,800 1,126,080 335,650 Percentage change in bonus from 2015 0.4 % 0.6 % 0.8 % 0.2% 0 2016 bonus as a per cent of 2016 salary 286% 288% 276% 91% 2016 LTIP award 1,080,000 750,000 400,000 Percentage change in LTIP award from 2015 8.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 2016 LTIP award as a per cent of 2016 salary 200% 0.0% 184% 109% 1 Following Stephen Hodges decision to retire it has been agreed that no LTIP will be awarded for 2016.
2 Elizabeth Lees full time equivalent salary remains at 367,500.
Her working pattern changed on 1 August 2016 to 90% of the full time equivalent.
Looking Forward to 2017 Ensure that contractual terms on termination and any 2017 is going to be a busy year for the Committee.
The focus payments made are fair to the individual and the group, of the year will be to review our remuneration policy, which that failure is not rewarded and that a duty to mitigate risk will be presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM in is fully recognised: November 2017.
We are committed to ensuring that the EDs Review any major changes in employee benefits structures pay arrangements reflect relevant regulatory requirements throughout the group: while supporting and driving business strategy: are balanced Select, appoint and determine terms of reference for between motivating and challenging our senior leaders to independent remuneration consultants to advise the grow the business: and deliver strong sustainable Committee on remuneration policy and levels of shareholder returns.
We plan to engage with our major remuneration: shareholders, as appropriate, about any proposed Ensure that the remuneration structures in the group are amendments to the remuneration structure in the spring of compliant with the rules and requirements of regulators, 2017. and all relevant legislation: Ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of I hope that you will find this report on the directors remuneration are fulfilled: and remuneration useful, understandable and clear.
Seek advice from group control functions to ensure remuneration structures and annual bonuses are Bridget Macaskill appropriately aligned to the groups risk appetite.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Membership 27 September 2016 The Committee comprises Bridget Macaskill as chairman, together with each of the other independent non-executive directors.
Five meetings were held during the year and a record of attendance at meetings is set out on page 48.
Governance The chairman of the board, chief executive, group head of Remuneration Committee human resources and the head of reward and HR operations Committee roles and responsibilities also attend meetings by invitation.
The Committees key objectives are to: Determine the overarching principles and parameters of Activity in the 2016 financial year the remuneration policy on a group-wide basis: The Committee has a standing calendar of items within its Establish and maintain a competitive remuneration remit.
In addition to these standing items, it discusses package to attract, motivate and retain high calibre EDs matters relating to the operation of the remuneration policy and senior management across the group: and emerging regulatory and market practices.
The key Promote the achievement of the groups annual plans and issues that the Committee focused on during the year were its strategic objectives by providing a remuneration as follows: package that contains appropriately motivating targets that The review of the annual bonus targets and objectives for are consistent with the groups risk appetite: and EDs: Align senior executives remuneration with the interests of Assessment of the vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan shareholders.
LTIP and Share Matched Plan SMP awards: Regular reviews of regulatory and legislative changes and The Committees main responsibilities are to: developments: Review and determine the total remuneration packages of Review of the design for all share incentive plans: EDs and other senior executives in consultation with the Review of the monitoring and management information for chairman and chief executive and within the terms of the employee sales incentive schemes in the group: agreed policy: Initial review of gender pay gap disclosures taking effect in Approve the design and targets of any performance 2017: and related pay schemes operated by the group: The annual performance, salary and variable remuneration Review the design of all employee share incentive plans: review.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 63 Directors Remuneration Policy This section sets out the companys remuneration policy for directors and explains each element and how it operates.
The reward structure aims to: Attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees across the group: Reward good performance: Promote the achievement of the groups annual plans and its long-term strategic objectives: Align the interests of employees with those of all key stakeholders, in particular our shareholders, clients and regulators: and Support effective risk management and promote a positive client conduct culture.
Remuneration Policy for EDs Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Base salary Set annually based on the individuals role and None.
Attracts and retains high experience, pay for the broader employee calibre employees.
population and external factors, where applicable.
Reflects the employees role and experience.
Increases normally take effect from 1 August.
Increases will generally not exceed increases for the broader employee population unless there is a change in role or responsibility.
Enables the EDs to perform their role Health screening.
effectively by contributing to their wellbeing and Life assurance cover.
Provides competitive benefits consistent with Allowance in lieu of a company car.
The maximum allowance in lieu of a company car is 18,000 for the chief executive and 12,000 for the other EDs.
Other benefits provided from time to time.
Pension Cash allowance in lieu of employer pension None.
Provides an appropriate contributions equal to 22.5% of base salary.
and competitive level of personal and dependant The maximum is 22.5% of base salary and the retirement benefits.
absolute values will only increase in line with any base salary increases.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 64 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Annual bonus Set annually based on the achievement of Individual bonuses are determined based on Rewards good pre-determined objectives.
both financial and non-financial performance, performance.
including adherence to relevant risk and Annual bonus up to 100% of base salary is control frameworks.
Motivates employees delivered in cash.
to support the groups The financial measure used to determine the goals, strategies and Annual bonus above 100% of base salary is bonus is RoE.
The non-financial metric is values over both the deferred into group shares vesting one third per individual performance.
This includes risk, medium and long term.
compliance and control measures, and others applicable to each role.
The actual Aligns the interests of Shares may be called for at any time up to 12 performance targets will be set at the senior employees and months from the date of vesting.
When the beginning of each financial year, but will not executives with those shares are called for, the ED is entitled to the be disclosed in advance for commercial of key stakeholders, gross value of accumulated dividends in respect sensitivity reasons.
including shareholders, of the shares held under the deferred awards and increases retention prior to calling.
The actual targets set for each year will be for senior employees, designed to align the interests of EDs with the through the use of The annual bonus for EDs is capped at 300% of key stakeholders over the medium term, be deferrals.
challenging but also provide an effective incentive for the EDs.
The annual bonus for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs is capped at 100% of base 60% of the annual bonus for the chief salary given that this is a control function, and so executive, the Banking chief executive and the a lower proportion of the remuneration should group finance director will be determined be variable.
40% of the annual bonus for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs will be determined based on RoE.
The remainder will be determined based on individual performance.
Threshold performance would result in a bonus of no more than one third of the maximum being paid for the chief executive, the Banking chief executive and the group finance director, and no more than 60% of the maximum being paid for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs.
The deferred awards would be forfeited if the ED leaves employment in certain circumstances or is dismissed for cause before the relevant vesting date.
The cash element is subject to clawback and the deferred element is subject to malus and clawback conditions, as outlined on page 68.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 65 Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Long Term Incentive Plan Awards are made in the form of nil cost options Awards vest after three years subject to Motivates executives or conditional shares.
achieving TSR, adjusted EPS growth and Risk to achieve the groups Management objectives.
longer-term strategic Awards vest after three years subject to objectives.
achieving absolute total shareholder returns The weighting of the performance measures is TSR, adjusted earnings per share EPS 40% TSR, 40% adjusted EPS and 20% Risk Aids the attraction and growth and Risk Management objectives.
On vesting, EDs receive an amount in cash or The TSR and adjusted EPS performance Aligns executive shares equal to the dividends which would have targets are determined at the time of each interests with those of been paid on vested shares during the period grant, are set to support the objectives of the shareholders.
from the beginning of the performance period to LTIP and be challenging but achievable.
the time that the ED calls for the award.
The Risk Management objectives are: capital EDs are eligible to receive an annual award of and balance sheet management: and risk, shares with a face value of up to 200% of base compliance and controls.
These two elements salary, excluding dividend equivalents.
The group head of legal and regulatory affairs is For each element of the award, vesting starts eligible to receive an annual award of shares with at 25% for threshold performance, rising on a a face value of up to 125% of base salary, straight line basis to 100% for maximum excluding dividend equivalents, given that this is performance.
a control function, and so a lower proportion of remuneration should be variable.
The actual target ranges set for each grant and performance against the targets at vesting will be reported in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial years.
The LTIP awards will be forfeited if the ED leaves employment in certain circumstances or is dismissed for cause before the relevant vesting date.
The LTIP awards are subject to malus and clawback conditions, as outlined on page 68.
Share Matching Plan EDs can choose to invest up to a maximum The performance conditions for the Matched Aligns the interests of value of 100% of base salary from their bonus SMP Shares are the same as the performance executives with those of into Close Brothers Group plc shares Invested conditions in respect of the LTIP awards, shareholders.
SMP Shares for three years.
Invested Shares are matched with free matching For each performance element of the Matched shares Matched SMP Shares for every SMP Share award, vesting starts at 25% for Invested Share.
threshold performance, rising on a straight line basis to 100% for maximum performance.
The Invested SMP Shares are released in full at the end of the three year deferral.
The actual target ranges set for each grant and performance against the targets at vesting The Matched SMP Shares are subject to will be reported in the Annual Report on performance conditions over the three year Remuneration for the relevant financial years.
The Invested SMP Shares and Matched SMP On vesting, EDs receive an amount in cash or Shares are forfeited if the ED leaves shares equal to the dividends which would have employment in certain circumstances or is been paid on vested shares during the period dismissed for cause before the relevant from the beginning of the performance period to vesting date.
The Invested SMP Shares and Matched SMP The maximum matching ratio will be two Shares are subject to malus and clawback Matched SMP Shares for each Invested Share.
conditions, as outlined on page 68.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 66 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Save As You Earn Employees save a fixed amount per month over None, as this is a voluntary scheme where SAYE a three or five year timeframe.
employees have invested their own earnings.
Aligns the interests of executives with those of At the end of the period employees can shareholders through withdraw all of their savings, or use some or all building a shareholding.
of their savings to buy shares at the guaranteed option price.
The option price is set at the beginning of the participation period and is usually set at a 20% discount to the share price at invitation.
Employees can make total maximum contributions of 6,000 per annum, in line with HMRC rules.
The Committee reserves the discretion to increase the maximum contributions in line with any HMRC rule changes during the period of the policy.
Share Incentive Plan Employees are able to contribute up to a None, as this is a voluntary scheme where SIP maximum of 1,800 per year from pre-income employees have invested their own earnings.
Aligns the interests of tax and national insurance earnings to buy executives with those of Partnership Shares.
At present the Committee has determined that employees have the ability to buy Partnership Shares: however it retains the discretion to offer Matching Shares of up to twice the number of Partnership Shares.
This will be on the same basis for all employees should the Committee exercise this discretion.
Dividends paid on shares held in the SIP are to be reinvested to acquire further Dividend Shares.
Shareholding requirement The chief executive, the Banking chief executive None.
Aligns the interests of and the group finance director are required to executives with those of build and maintain a shareholding of 200% of shareholders.
base salary over a reasonable timeframe.
The group head of legal and regulatory affairs is required to build a shareholding of 100% of base salary, given that this is a control function.
Short-term share price fluctuations are disregarded for these calculations.
Other The company will pay legal, training and other None.
reasonable and appropriate fees incurred by the EDs as a result of doing their job.
Legacy arrangements The company has the ability to honour any None.
commitments entered into with current or former directors that were disclosed to shareholders in remuneration reports prior to the 2014 remuneration report.
The Committee reserves the right to allow awards to vest or make payments subject to arrangements that were granted or agreed before the individual became a director and not in contemplation of becoming a director.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 67 Additional Details on the Remuneration Policy Annual bonus: Performance measures and targets Per cent determined by Per cent achievement determined against Role by RoE personal goals Examples of personal goals Group chief 60% 40% Strategic: Maintain discipline of the Banking division model particularly as competition executive increases and maintain momentum in Asset Management.
People: Develop senior succession and support pipeline talent programmes.
Business delivery: Deliver versus key group metrics.
Banking chief 60% 40% Strategic: Maintain discipline of funding and lending models and progress strategic executive and tactical initiatives.
Business delivery: Deliver against key metrics, principally in the Banking division and maintain cost discipline and prioritise spending.
Group finance 60% 40% Strategic: Manage the positioning of our strategy and results with investors and analysts.
director Business delivery: Manage the level of group capital, including both regulatory and economic.
Group head 40% 60% Strategic: Play a leadership role in all regulatory issues, including advice on key of legal and decisions as we address PRA FCA requirements and standards.
regulatory affairs Risk and compliance: Ensure operation within the agreed risk appetite and continue to enhance the control environment and supporting infrastructure.
The above are high level examples of personal goals.
Individual personal goals change each year in line with the evolving business strategy.
Detailed disclosures for the 2016 financial year are provided on pages 73 and 74.
The Committee chose RoE as a performance measure as it aligns the interests of the shareholders and the executives and it captures both profit and capital management metrics.
Individual performance was selected to ensure that the EDs are implementing and executing the groups strategies and objectives over the short and medium term.
Risk, compliance and controls are included as part of the personal objectives to ensure that the EDs set the right tone from the top and ensure the company maintains the appropriate risk and compliance discipline.
The actual performance targets for each financial year will be set at the beginning of the financial year based on prior year performance, the budget for the following year and other internal and external factors as appropriate.
LTIP and SMP: Performance measures Adjusted EPS was chosen as a performance measure as the Committee believes it is the best measure of long-term performance for the group.
Absolute TSR was selected as it is the key objective for most of our shareholders and it supports both the delivery of a good RoE for shareholders and strong alignment of interests between executives and shareholders.
Capital and balance sheet management was included to ensure capital is used efficiently and in a disciplined way to support the long-term health of the group.
Risk, compliance and controls was selected to ensure that the long-term interests of the group are protected and to support key requirements for our business such as good customer outcomes.
Additional details on performance measures for the annual bonus, LTIP and SMP The Committee has the discretion to change the overall weighting of each category over the duration of the policy where it is deemed appropriate and reasonable to do so.
The Committee can also make adjustments to performance targets to reflect significant one-off items which occur during the measurement period for example a major transaction, where it is deemed appropriate and reasonable to do so.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments within the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial year.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 68 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Malus and clawback The cash element of the annual bonus is subject to clawback for a period of three years from award.
The deferred element vests in equal tranches over three years, and is subject to malus prior to vesting and clawback for three years from the date of grant.
The LTIP and the Matched SMP shares are subject to malus for the three year period to the point of vesting, and are subject to clawback for four years from the date of grant.
The Invested SMP shares are subject to malus until vesting and to clawback for three years from the date of grant.
The events which may trigger malus are as follows: The EDs employment is terminated for misconduct or the ED is issued with a formal disciplinary warning for misconduct under the firms disciplinary policy: or The firm suffers a material loss where the ED has operated outside the risk parameters or risk profile applicable to their position and as such the Committee considers a material failure in risk management has occurred: or The level of the award is not sustainable when assessing the overall financial viability of the firm.
In the event that one of these is triggered, the Committee may, at its discretion, defer and or reduce, in whole or in part any unvested award.
The events which may trigger clawback are as follows: Discovery of a material mis-statement resulting in an adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of the company, or the audited accounts of any material subsidiary: or The assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was based on material error, or materially inaccurate or misleading information: or The discovery that any information used to determine the bonus and number of shares subject to an award was based on material error, or materially inaccurate or misleading information: or Action or conduct of a participant which, in the reasonable opinion of the board, amounts to fraud or gross misconduct.
In the event that one of these is triggered, the Committee may require the ED to repay all or part of a relevant award, and any associated dividend equivalents.
Consistency of executive remuneration across the group The pay and employment conditions of employees within the group were taken into consideration when setting the policy and pay of the EDs.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees when setting the policy, although the employee opinion survey conducted every two years includes remuneration as one of the topics surveyed.
The principles of remuneration are applied throughout the group and are designed to support the groups key attributes across our businesses, which are expertise, service and relationships.
Remuneration structures and arrangements for employees below the EDs are based on the individuals role, experience, performance and relevant market practice.
Annual bonuses for those below ED level are based on role, business performance, market conditions and individual performance.
These bonuses are not capped: however highly remunerated employees have a portion of their bonus deferred.
For the majority of employees the bonus deferral policy is in line with the EDs, although there are differing approaches in some parts of the group.
A limited group of senior employees receive LTIP awards, generally on the same basis as the EDs, but the maximum face value of these awards is generally at or below the level of the employees base salary.
Members of the group Executive Committee who are not EDs are required to build and maintain shareholdings of at least one times base salary and as such are also eligible to participate in the SMP.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP plans.
The following assumptions were made in developing the scenarios: Element Assumptions used Fixed remuneration Consists of 2017 base salary, 2017 benefits and 2017 pension allowance.
Minimum No variable elements are awarded.
On target Annual bonus: Awarded at 200% of base salary for all EDs, with the exception of Elizabeth Lee, where the award is 80% of base salary.
LTIP: Awards with a face value of 1,080,000 for Preben Prebensen, 850,000 for Stephen Hodges, 750,000 for Jonathan Howell and 400,000 for Elizabeth Lee the level of the 2016 financial year awards and vesting at 66% average level of vesting for the five years up to and including 2015.
SMP: The ED invests 50% of the policy maximum in the SMP, the investment is matched at two times the Invested Shares and vests at 66% average level of vesting for the five years up to and including 2015.
Maximum Annual bonus: Awarded at policy maximum 300% of base salary for all EDs, with the exception of Elizabeth Lee, where the policy maximum is 100% of base salary.
LTIP: Maximum award with a face value equal to 200% of base salary for all EDs with the exception of Elizabeth Lee where the award is 125% of salary.
SMP: The executive invests 100% of the maximum in the SMP that is equal to 100% of base salary, the investment is matched at two times the Invested Shares and vests at 100%.
Other No adjustment for share price growth or dividends paid.
At maximum performance, the ratio of financial to non-financial measures for the EDs across the annual bonus, LTIP and SMP is approximately 70% to 30%.
The Committee believes this combination provides a good balance of financial and nonfinancial measures, supports the medium and long-term strategic objectives of the group, and alignment of EDs and shareholders interests.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The remuneration package for new EDs will comply with the Remuneration Policy for EDs outlined on pages 63 to 66.
The Committee will seek to pay no more than is necessary to secure the right candidate.
The Committee may seek to buy out remuneration that the director forfeits as a result of joining the company.
In such cases, the Committee will seek to replace this with awards that match the quantum and terms of the forfeited awards as closely as possible.
There may be situations where a new director has to relocate in order to take up the post with the company.
In such situations reasonable financial and or practical support will be provided to enable the relocation.
This may include the cost of any tax that is incurred as a result of the move.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 70 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Service Contracts and Policy for Payment on Loss of Office Standard provision Policy Details Notice period 12 months notice from the company.
EDs may be required to work during the notice 12 months notice from the ED.
period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full period.
All EDs are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Compensation for loss of No more than 12 months salary, pension Payment will be commensurate with the companys office in service contracts allowance and benefits.
legal obligations and we will seek appropriate mitigation of loss by the ED.
Treatment of annual bonus The standard approach is no payment The Committee may award a pro-rated bonus to on termination unless employed on date of payment.
good leavers as determined by the Committee in certain circumstances, although there is no automatic entitlement.
Good leaver status may be granted in cases such as death, disability or retirement.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of a good leaver in line with performance, the circumstances of the termination, and the malus conditions outlined in the policy table.
The Committee also has the ability to recover annual bonuses in line with the clawback conditions outlined in the policy table.
Treatment of unvested The Committee has the discretion under Where the director is designated a good leaver, deferred awards under the the relevant plan rules to determine awards vest in full over the original schedule and annual bonus plan and the whether good leaver status should be remain subject to the malus conditions.
Invested SMP Shares applied on termination.
The deferred shares are released in full in the event The current approach provides that of a change in control.
discretion may be afforded in cases such Awards lapse in the event the employee is declared as death, disability, retirement, redundancy bankrupt, joins another financial services company or mutual separation.
within 12 months of termination unless this condition is waived under good leaver status, or leaves and is not designated a good leaver.
These are also subject to the clawback conditions.
Treatment of the LTIP and All awards lapse except for good leavers.
For good leavers, vesting is pro-rated for the the Matched SMP Shares The Committee has the discretion under period of employment during the performance the relevant plan rules to determine how period.
good leaver status should be applied on Vesting is subject to the achievement over the termination.
original performance period against the The current approach provides that performance targets and is on the original schedule.
discretion may be afforded in cases such Awards remain subject to the malus and clawback as death, disability, retirement, redundancy conditions.
In the event of a change in control, the awards will vest subject to the service factor and the achievement against the performance targets at that point.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to increase the amount vesting depending on the circumstances of the change in control.
Outside appointments EDs may accept external appointments.
Board approval must be sought before accepting the appointment.
The fees may be retained by the director.
Chairman and nonEngaged under letters of appointment for All non-executive directors are subject to annual executive directors terms not exceeding three years.
Renewable by mutual agreement and can No compensation is payable if required to stand be terminated on one months notice.
Other The company may pay settlement payments, legal, training and outplacement fees incurred on exit, if appropriate.
Other notable provisions in There are no other notable provisions in service contracts the service contracts.
Copies of the directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 71 Dates of EDs Service Contracts Name Date of service contract Preben Prebensen 9 February 2009 Stephen Hodges 22 January 2001 Jonathan Howell 8 October 2007 Elizabeth Lee 1 August 2012 Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Independent Non-executive Directors Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Fees Fees are paid in cash and are reviewed periodically.
Attract and retain a Fees for the chairman and non-executive directors are set by the board based on a chairman and independent recommendation from the Nomination and Governance Committee.
The non-executive non-executive directors who directors do not participate in that decision.
have the requisite skills and The chairman of the board receives a fee as chairman but receives no other fees for experience to determine the chairmanship or membership of any committees.
strategy of the group and Non-executive directors receive a base fee.
The senior independent director receives an additional fee for this role.
Additional fees are paid for chairmanship of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Additional fees are paid for membership of committees, with the exception of the Nomination and Governance Committee, for which no additional fees are payable.
The chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to claim reimbursement for reasonable expenses incurred performing their duties for the company, including travel expenses.
Overall aggregate fees will remain within the 1 million authorised by our articles of association.
There is no performance framework, recovery or withholding.
Non-executive Directors Appointment Letters Name Date of appointment Current letter of appointment start date Oliver Corbett 3 June 2014 20 November 2014 Geoffrey Howe 4 January 2011 20 November 2014 Lesley Jones 23 December 2013 20 November 2014 Bridget Macaskill 21 November 2013 20 November 2014 Strone Macpherson 3 March 2003 20 November 2014 Consideration of Shareholders Views The chairman of the board consults our major shareholders on a regular basis on key issues, including remuneration.
The Committee took issues of concern raised by shareholders in prior years into account when determining the policy.
Annual Report on Remuneration This section explains how our Directors Remuneration Policy was implemented during 2016.
2 The figures for the performance awards for 2015 have been re-calculated using the actual share price on the dates of vesting for the LTIP and Matched SMP shares.
These were 15.17 for LTIP and Matched SMP Shares.
The three month average to 31 July 2015 was used for the 2015 report given that the awards were vesting after publication of the report.
3 Elizabeth Lees salary was 367,500 with effect from 1 August 2015, however a reduced amount was paid due to a short period of unpaid leave.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 72 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Link between reward and performance The groups financial results have been good this year, and over the past three years.
Adjusted operating profit has increased 4% in the year to 233.6 million, and it has grown 40% or 12% per annum compounded over the last three financial years.
RoE has remained strong at 18.9% this year, and is up from 15.8% in 2013. Dividend growth was 7% this year with dividend cover remaining at 2.3 times up from 1.9 times in 2013.
The strong RoE has been reflected in the EDs bonuses, with the element of the bonus determined based on RoE being 93.3% of the potential maximum.
The compounded adjusted EPS growth of 15.4% over the last three years has resulted in the EPS element of the LTIP vesting at 100%.
The compounded TSR of 10.0% per annum has met the threshold target under the LTIP and vested at 25.1%.
The very strong approach to capital management combined with a good performance in risk, compliance and controls mean that the Risk Management objectives element vested at 89.2%.
As a result, the LTIP will vest at 67.9% this year.
Additional Disclosures on the Single Total Figure of Remuneration for EDs Table Audited Salary The per annum salaries paid during the year are as shown in the single total figure of remuneration table shown on page 71.
The increase between 2015 and 2016 was with effect from 1 August 2015.
When reviewing salary levels, the Committee takes into account the individuals role and experience, pay for the broader employee population and external factors, where applicable.
There were no salary increases awarded for the 2017 financial year.
Benefits The EDs each received an allowance in lieu of a company car.
Preben Prebensen received 18,000 while the others received 12,000.
These allowances have not been increased since 2012.
They also received private health cover.
The discount to the share price on grant of SAYE options is included in the year of grant.
Pension The EDs all received a monthly cash pension allowance equivalent to 22.5% of base salary.
They do not receive any additional pension provision.
Annual bonus: Achievement against targets The bonuses for EDs were determined with reference to RoE targets and stretching personal goals relevant to each EDs role and business accountabilities.
The RoE for the 2016 financial year was 18.9% against a maximum target of 20%, warranting an award of 93.3% of the potential maximum bonus for this element.
Any annual bonus above the level of the 2016 base salary was deferred into group shares vesting one third per year over three years in line with the approach outlined in the Remuneration Policy on page 64.
Achievement Against Annual Bonus Targets Financial target RoE Personal goals Potential Threshold Target maximum Actual RoE Actual Actual Total 33.33% of 66.67% of 100% of 93.3% of amount Potential Actual amount bonus potential potential potential potential awarded maximum per cent awarded awarded Name Weighting maximum maximum maximum maximum 000s Weighting 000s awarded 000s 000s Preben Prebensen 60% 12% 15% 20% 19% 907 40% 648 98.5% 638 1,545 Stephen Hodges 60% 12% 15% 20% 19% 815 40% 582 100.0% 582 1,397 Jonathan Howell 60% 12% 15% 20% 19% 685 40% 490 90.0% 441 1,126 Elizabeth Lee 40% 12% 15% 20% 19% 137 60% 221 90.0% 199 336 Annual bonus: Personal goals for the 2016 financial year Performance for each individual is assessed against a balanced scorecard of strategic, people, business delivery and risk and control objectives.
These objectives are agreed with the Committee at the start of each financial year, and are designed to be stretching for the individual and the business while maintaining consistency and stability in the groups strategy, business model and performance.
Performance against each individuals objectives is assessed by the Committee taking into account a combination of qualitative and quantitative measures, as well as feedback from key stakeholders.
In the last year, all four EDs achieved strong performance against their individual objectives as evidenced by the consistent execution of our strategy, continued strong financial performance and outperformance of our TSR against the majority of the domestic UK banking sector during the financial year.
A summary of the EDs personal objectives and achievements which were considered by the Committee for the 2016 financial year is set out on pages 73 and 74.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, not all performance criteria can be disclosed.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 73 Examples of Personal Goals for the 2016 Financial Year Objective Achievement Preben Prebensen, Group Chief Executive Execute group strategy Preben Prebensen has continued to provide strong leadership over the course of the year, promoting and supporting the effective and consistent application of the groups strategy and business model across all its businesses.
This has resulted in good financial performance with adjusted operating profit growth of 4% to 233.6 million against a backdrop of more challenging market conditions.
Comprehensive review of the groups business model concluded that the groups long-term strategy, focused on building sustainable positions in specialist market segments, remains appropriate and is fully supported by the board and embedded in the business.
Maintained the discipline around implementation of the business model across the business, with focus on margins, returns and effective underwriting processes and controls supported by a prudent risk culture.
As a result loan book growth of 12% was achieved while maintaining credit metrics well within limits and stable key performance indicators.
Ongoing progress in new business initiatives and investment in premium finance lead to improved growth and business performance.
Increased the strength of our brand through targeted advertising campaigns and sponsorship, which have significantly enhanced brand visibility with key client audiences.
Ensure robust succession Developed comprehensive succession plans for the Banking division senior team, ensuring plans across key functions stability and continuity in leadership.
Successful transition of leadership at Winterflood to Philip Yarrow.
Developed a new leadership competency framework to support the development of key senior talent and to support the long-term performance of the business both now and in the future.
Ensure group maintains The group continued to operate within its risk appetite and remained compliant with regulatory regulatory compliance, obligations throughout the year.
with appropriate governance Stephen Hodges, Banking Chief Executive Drive strategic and tactical Stephen Hodges has continued to deliver effective and consistent leadership of the Banking initiatives in the Banking division, with a strong focus on driving strategic initiatives while maintaining the discipline of our division while maintaining differentiated lending model as the Banking division delivered its seventh successive year of the discipline of our operating profit growth, up 7% to 223.0 million.
funding and lending Maintained discipline of the lending model in a period of enhanced competition: core metrics models have remained strong and consistent with our disciplined model with net interest margin at 8.2%, bad debt at 0.6% and return on net loan book of 3.6%.
Identified and actioned a significant number of key strategic initiatives in the year, maintaining strong momentum in existing initiatives.
Commitment to differentiated and service led proposition emphasised in a range of internal and external communications and evidenced by strong customer feedback and net promoter scores.
Maintained distinctive approach to funding and liquidity, upholding borrow long, lend short principle while improving diversity of funding with a new public securitisation, private placements and growth in corporate deposits.
Maintaining cost discipline Progressed all key investment initiatives while maintaining a strong focus on cost.
This included while protecting key the introduction of additional measures to manage the rate of cost progression through the year, investment initiatives such as phasing of key investment decisions and restrictions on new hires.
Succession planning and Established comprehensive talent and succession plan for senior roles to support the talent development development and retention of key talent within the business.
This includes the restructuring of credit roles to enhance succession and the establishment of a new Training Academy to develop the next generation of specialist sales talent.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 74 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Objective Achievement Jonathan Howell, Group Finance Director Set and execute the Jonathan Howell has outlined a clear financial strategy, including three year projections for groups financial strategy business and group performance and balance sheet metrics.
Supported by robust forecasting and scenario analysis he continues to effectively implement that strategy ensuring prudent management of the groups financial resources.
Maintained strong capital ratios for the group, comfortably ahead of minimum regulatory requirements, with CET1 ratio of 13.5% and leverage ratio at 10.2%.
Performed accurate and effective modelling of capital including stress tests and scenario analysis, which underpins confidence in the groups capital position from shareholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Established and implemented consistent and long-term dividend policy with strong support from board, shareholders and sell-side analysts, supporting sixth consecutive year of dividend growth with prudent cover of 2.3 times in the 2016 financial year.
Manage the positioning of Ongoing dialogue and engagement with shareholders, strengthening support for the company our strategy with investors and its implementation of strategy.
and analysts Maintained straightforward and consistent shareholder communications, with consistency in financial reporting and key performance measures.
Differentiation of Close Brothers specialist, high margin model understood and valued by investors and analysts as evidenced in strong price to book and price earnings ratios compared to the domestic UK banking sector.
Lead high quality group High quality, consistent and timely management reporting to board, chief executive, Executive finance functions Committee and control functions, used as basis for planning, measurement, forecasting and decision making.
Accurate and reliable budgeting and forecasting supporting no surprises culture and performance.
Implemented succession plans developed for all key finance roles, to ensure development and retention of key talent.
Elizabeth Lee, Group Head of Legal and Regulatory Affairs Play a leadership role in all Elizabeth Lee has continued to provide effective leadership and support to the business on all legal and regulatory issues legal and regulatory issues.
Overseen the successful implementation of Senior Managers Regime, effective preparation for the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation and changes in data protection regulations.
Delivered legal support for new business initiatives including premium finance investment programme, development of the retail finance business and M&A activity.
Review the groups Led full assessment of group insurance cover requirements alongside scope and cost of group insurance provision financial lines insurances resulting in both reduced cost and wider cover, including additional cover for cyber risks.
Manage and monitor legal Legal and regulatory risks have remained well managed and clearly communicated to the and regulatory risk executive team and board.
Completed overhaul of management information in relation to Conduct Risk, in partnership with the group risk function.
Performance awards The performance awards in the single total figure of remuneration include the 2013 LTIP grant and the 2013 Matched SMP Shares.
Both of these will vest on 1 October 2016.
The performance targets for the 2013 awards vesting in 2016 were weighted 40% adjusted EPS, 40% absolute TSR and 20% Risk Management objectives.
The adjusted EPS targets were RPI 3% per annum to RPI 10% per annum and the absolute TSR targets were 10% per annum to 20% per annum.
Compounded adjusted EPS growth over the three year period to 2016 was a very good 15.4% per annum, while the TSR was 10.0% per annum, meaning the EPS element will vest at 100% and the TSR element will vest at 25.1%.
The Risk Management objectives of the 2013 LTIP and Matched SMP Shares were assessed at 89.2% by the Committee.
More details on the rationale for the assessment are provided in the table on page 75.
Accordingly, the 2013 LTIP and Matched SMP Shares will vest at 67.9%.
The LTIP and SMP awards vested at 97.3% in 2015.
The share price for the LTIP and Matched SMP Shares increased by 4% over the three year period from the date of grant to the end of the performance period.
The average share price used to value the awards due to vest in October 2016 was 1,211.4p from 1 May 2016 to 31 July 2016, which was the performance measurement period.
The 2013 LTIP and SMP awards were originally granted at 1,168.2p.
While the increase in share price remains positive over the performance period, the single total figure of remuneration for the EDs are down from the previous year, primarily due to the slowdown in share price growth.
The performance awards also include the amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid during the period from the beginning of the performance period to the time that the awards vest.
The good, progressive dividend payout also contributed to the single total figures of remuneration.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 75 The Committee assessed performance against the Risk Management objectives after each of the three years of the LTIP performance period.
The results of each assessment are shown in the table below.
Details of the Assessment of the Risk Management Objectives for the LTIP and SMP Year one Year two Year three Overall Performance measure assessment assessment assessment vesting Comments Capital and balance 100% 100% 100% 100% Capital, balance sheet management, funding and liquidity sheet management were very strong in the 2016 financial year.
The group continues to maintain a strong, straightforward and transparent balance sheet.
This was demonstrated in the 2016 financial year when Moodys Investor Services confirmed our credit ratings were unchanged following an upgrade in the 2015 financial year.
Funding position remains strong with significant and widening diversity within the sources of our funding.
Risk, compliance 70% 80% 85% 78.3% Regulatory relationships remain good with both the PRA and and controls FCA.
Resource and capabilities across risk have been upgraded and enhanced.
The Committee noted good progress has been made across all areas of risk, compliance and controls.
Overall vesting 89.2% Details of the Overall Vesting for the LTIP and SMP Performance measure Threshold target Maximum target Actual achieved Overall vesting Adjusted EPS growth RPI 3% p. a. RPI 10% p. a.
25.05% As per the Risk Management objectives n a n a table above 89.2% Overall vesting 67.9% Historical Vesting of LTIP Awards Compared to Adjusted EPS and Absolute TSR The following graph and table show the level of LTIP vesting following performance testing for the last five years.
Adjusted EPS and TSR LTIP vesting % 300 100 250 80 200 60 150 97% 40 95% 68% 100 79% 20 50 25% 0 0 2009 award 2010 award 2011 award 2012 award 2013 award 1 2 2 2 2 vested 2012 vested 2013 vested 2014 vested 2015 vested 2016 TSR Adjusted EPS LTIP vesting 1 Vesting was subject to one third adjusted EPS, one third absolute TSR and one third Strategic Goals for all awards granted between 2009 and 2011, inclusive.
2 Vesting was subject to 40% adjusted EPS, 40% absolute TSR and 20% Risk Management objectives for the 2012 and 2013 awards.
Note: This graph shows the vesting percentage of the LTIP compared with the adjusted EPS rebased to 100 at 31 July 2011, and the TSR based on 100 invested in Close Brothers Group plc on 31 July 2011.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 76 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued LTIP Vesting for the Last Five Years Vesting percentage Year awarded Year vested Adjusted EPS TSR Goals Total 1 2009 2012 76% 25% 1 2010 2013 66% 92% 80% 79% 1 2011 2014 100% 100% 85% 95% 2 2012 2015 100% 100% 87% 97% 2 2013 2016 100% 25% 89% 68% 1 Vesting was subject to one third adjusted EPS, one third absolute TSR and one third Strategic Goals for all awards granted between 2009 and 2011, inclusive.
Performance Graph The graph below shows a comparison of TSR for the companys shares for the seven years ended 31 July 2016 against the TSR for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index.
TSR has been calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
The index has been selected because the company has been a constituent of the index throughout the period.
The closing mid-market price of the companys shares on 29 July 2016 was 1,260p and the range during the year was 990p to 1,547p.
Note: This graph shows the value, by 31 July 2016, of 100 invested in Close Brothers Group plc on 31 July 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the intervening financial year ends.
Chief Executive: Historical Information Audited 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20151 2016 Preben Prebensen Single figure of total remuneration 2 000 1,890 2,187 2,496 5,748 7,411 5,962 3,771 Annual bonus against maximum opportunity 90% 95% 90% 100% 100% 98% 95% LTIP, SMP and Matching Share Award vesting 33% 33% 25% 79% 95% 97% 68% 1 The figures for the performance awards for 2015 have been re-calculated using the actual share price on the dates of vesting for the LTIP and Matched SMP shares.
As highlighted in the 2015 report, the three month average to 31 July 2015 was used for the 2014 report given that the awards were vesting after publication of the report.
2 The figures for 2011 to 2014 include the Matching Share Awards that were granted in 2009 at the time of Preben Prebensens appointment as chief executive.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 77 Change in Remuneration of the Chief Executive The following table shows how the remuneration of the chief executive increased compared to the general employee population for the 2016 financial year.
The Committee deemed it appropriate for Preben Prebensen to receive a salary increase below that received by the general employee population.
The change in bonus for Preben Prebensen reflects the achievement against the RoE and personal goals targets, outlined on page 72.
The reduction in average bonus for the general employee population primarily reflects increasing headcount as shown on pages 100 and 101 and the reduction in trading income in Winterflood, leading to a reduction in bonuses in that division.
The average decrease in bonus for the general employee population excluding Winterflood was 2%.
Average change Average change Average change in salary for 2016 in benefits for 2016 in annual bonus 1 2 3 from 1 August 2015 from 1 August 2015 for 2016 Preben Prebensen 2% 2% 0.4 % All employee population 4% 4% 9 % 1 Calculated as the average percentage increase in salary for those eligible for an increase at 1 August 2015.
2 Calculated as the average percentage increase in benefits for those eligible for a salary increase at 1 August 2015.
3 The percentage increase in the average bonus calculated as the total bonus spend divided by the average headcount for financial years 2015 and 2016.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The following table shows the total remuneration paid compared to the total distributions to shareholders.
2016 2015 million million Remuneration paid 257.1 248.4 1 Distributions to shareholders 84.1 79.0 1 Interim dividend paid and final dividend proposed for the financial year.
Scheme Interests Awarded During the Year Audited The face value and key details of the share awards granted in the 2016 financial year are shown in the table below.
These were all delivered as nil cost options.
The Deferred Share Award DSA is a mandatory deferral of a portion of the annual bonus.
The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded was 14.934, the average mid-market closing price for the five days prior to grant.
Percentage Vesting Performance Face value vesting at Number of performance Name Award type Vesting period conditions 000 threshold shares period end date Preben Prebensen DSA1 13 years No 496 n a 33,213 29 Sep 18 LTIP 3 years Yes 1,000 25% 66,962 29 Sep 18 SMP Invested 3 years No 528 n a 35,356 29 Sep 18 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 1,056 25% 70,712 29 Sep 18 Stephen Hodges DSA1 13 years No 468 n a 31,338 29 Sep 18 LTIP 3 years Yes 850 25% 56,918 29 Sep 18 SMP Invested 3 years No 462 n a 30,937 29 Sep 18 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 924 25% 61,874 29 Sep 18 Jonathan Howell DSA1 13 years No 335 n a 22,433 29 Sep 18 LTIP 3 years Yes 750 25% 50,221 29 Sep 18 SMP Invested 3 years No 400 n a 26,785 29 Sep 18 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 800 25% 53,570 29 Sep 18 Elizabeth Lee DSA1 13 years No n a 29 Sep 18 LTIP 3 years Yes 400 25% 26,785 29 Sep 18 SMP Invested 3 years No 200 n a 13,393 29 Sep 18 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 400 25% 26,786 29 Sep 18 1 The DSA vests one third per year over three years.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 78 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Performance conditions During the year, the Committee undertook an extensive review of the adjusted EPS and absolute TSR growth targets and determined that the targets for the LTIP and Matched SMP Share award grants this year should be unchanged from the 2015 grants, as outlined in the table below.
The Committee believes these are appropriately stretching and effectively align the executives interests with those of shareholders.
Threshold vesting Maximum vesting Element 25% vests 100% vests 1 Absolute TSR 10% p. a.
20% p. a. or greater 1 Adjusted EPS RPI 3% p. a. RPI 10% p. a. or greater 1 There is straight-line vesting between the threshold and maximum targets.
External Appointments Jonathan Howell received 77,000 in fees 2015: 77,000 from The Sage Group plc during the Close Brothers 2016 financial year.
None of the other EDs held any external directorships during the year.
Payments to Past Directors Audited There were no payments to past directors after they had left office during the year.
Payments for Loss of Office Audited There were no payments made to directors for loss of office during the year.
Statement of Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2014 AGM Number of For Against abstentions Directors' Remuneration Policy 92.5% 7.5% 5,247,011 Statement of Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM Number of For Against abstentions Annual Report on Remuneration 93.2% 6.8% 8,414,009 The primary reasons cited for the votes against and actions taken in response are as follows: Reason Action taken by the Committee Adjusted EPS targets in the LTIP not The EPS targets were reviewed this year and not adjusted, as outlined above.
challenging enough against analyst The Committee believes these targets are challenging and align with the forecasts companys long-term strategic objectives.
Analyst forecasts frequently assume a continuation of the current strong performance, and while they are used as a point of reference, they are not an appropriate measure to be used in isolation.
Level of disclosure on annual bonus We have improved the level of disclosure about the determination of annual determination bonuses.
EDs Shareholding and Share Interests Audited The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the company at 31 July 2016 are set out below: Number Outstanding share Outstanding share Shareholding of shares awards not subject to awards subject to requirement at owned 3 4 5 performance conditions performance conditions Outstanding options 2 31 July outright 1 Name 2016 2016 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Preben Prebensen 85,715 740,947 173,521 202,683 446,337 540,919 1,745 1,745 Stephen Hodges 76,985 816,747 168,769 176,909 386,028 407,323 Jonathan Howell 64,762 200,577 125,752 115,276 339,234 347,403 Elizabeth Lee 29,167 65,292 35,946 33,273 156,622 150,992 1,745 1,745 1 Based on the closing mid-market share price of 1,260p on 31 July 2016.
2 This includes shares owned outright by closely associated persons.
3 This includes DSA and SMP Invested Shares.
4 This includes LTIP awards and Matched SMP Shares.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 79 No EDs held shares that were vested but unexercised at 31 July 2016.
There were no changes in notifiable interests between 31 July 2016 and 16 September 2016, other than the purchases by Preben Prebensen and Elizabeth Lee within the SIP which increased their shareholdings to 740,969 shares and 65,422 shares respectively.
Notes to the details of EDs share exercises during the year The DSA is a mandatory deferral of a portion of the annual bonus.
The DSA, LTIP and SMP consist of the right for EDs to call for shares in the company from the employee benefit trust or Treasury Shares, at nil cost, together with a cash amount representing accrued notional dividends thereon.
The DSA, LTIP and SMP awards may be forfeited if the ED leaves employment in certain circumstances preceding the vesting date.
They may be called for at any time up to 12 months from the date of vesting.
The value of the awards is charged to the groups income statement in the year to which the award relates for the DSA and Invested SMP Shares, and spread over the vesting period for the LTIP and Matched SMP Share awards.
The LTIP awards are held under the 2009 LTIP and are subject to the performance criteria described in the remuneration policy on page 65.
The Matched SMP Shares are subject to the same performance criteria.
Details of EDs Option Exercises During the Year Audited No EDs exercised options during the 2016 financial year.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Non-executive Directors Audited 1 2 Fees and benefits total 3 2016 2015 Name 000 000 Oliver Corbett 100 95 4 Geoffrey Howe 95 83 Lesley Jones 103 96 5 Bridget Macaskill 107 99 Strone Macpherson 220 210 1 Non-executive director fees were increased with effect from 1 August 2015.
2 Benefits include taxable travel related expenses in respect of attendance at board meetings.
Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using the appropriate tax rate.
3 Prior year fees have been restated to include taxable travel related expenses which are grossed up using the appropriate rate.
4 Geoffrey Howe was appointed senior independent director on 20 November 2014.
5 Bridget Macaskill was appointed chairman of the Remuneration Committee in November 2014.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 80 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Notes to the single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors The fees payable to non-executive directors for the 2016 and 2017 financial years are as follows: Role 2017 2016 1 Chairman 220,000 220,000 Non-executive director 65,000 65,000 Supplements Senior independent director 15,000 15,000 Chairman of Audit Committee 25,000 25,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 25,000 25,000 Chairman of Risk Committee 25,000 25,000 2 Committee membership 5,000 5,000 1 The chairman receives no other fees for chairmanship or membership of board committees.
2 No fees are payable to the chairman, or for membership, of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Non-executive Directors Share Interests Audited The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the company are set out below: Shares held Shares held beneficially at beneficially at 31 July 31 July Name 2016 2015 Oliver Corbett Geoffrey Howe 5,000 5,000 Lesley Jones Bridget Macaskill 2,500 2,500 Strone Macpherson 13,300 13,300 There were no changes in notifiable interests between 31 July 2016 and 12 September 2016.
Advice During the year under review and up to the date of this report, the Committee consulted and took advice from the following advisers and executives: PwC: Chairman of the board: Chief executive: Group head of human resources: Head of reward and HR operations: Group chief risk officer: and Company secretary.
Where the Committee seeks advice from employees this never relates to their own remuneration.
PwC also provided consultancy services to the group during the financial year and were originally engaged to advise on remuneration in 2008.
PwC are a member of, and adhere to, the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of Conduct.
PwC were paid 69,420 in fees for remuneration services related to the 2016 financial year.
The Committee has satisfied themselves that the advice received from all parties named above was objective and independent.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 81 Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the Following Financial Year Salary The Committee determines the appropriate level of salary with reference to the EDs' role and experience, increases for the broader population and external factors.
However, due to cost discipline measures within the group during the year, the Committee determined that it was appropriate not to award salary increases to the EDs for the following financial year.
The average salary increase awarded to employees across the group was 2.6%.
Benefits The EDs will receive benefits in line with those outlined in the Remuneration Policy table on page 63.
There will be no increases to the allowances or benefits, other than any potential increase in the cost of providing them.
Annual bonus The annual bonuses will be subject to the caps and determined based on assessment against the performance measures outlined in the Remuneration Policy table on page 64.
Because of commercial sensitivity, the details of the performance targets and achievement against those will be outlined in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance awards The LTIP awards will be subject to the caps and determined in line with the objectives outlined in the Remuneration Policy table.
The performance measures will be in line with those outlined in the Remuneration Policy table on page 65.
Because of commercial sensitivity, the details of the achievement against performance targets will be outlined in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension The EDs will continue to receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension equivalent to 22.5% of base salary.
This report was approved by the board of directors on 27 September 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Bridget Macaskill Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 82 Financial Statements 84 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc 87 Consolidated Income Statement 88 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 89 Consolidated Balance Sheet 90 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 91 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 92 Company Balance Sheet 93 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 94 The Notes 135 Glossary 136 Investor Relations 136 Cautionary Statement Photographed on location at Cosworth Ltd. Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 83 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 84 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc Opinion on Financial Statements of Close Brothers We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in Group plc relation to: In our opinion: The directors confirmation on page 51 that they have The financial statements give a true and fair view of the carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as facing the group, including those that would threaten its at 31 July 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: ended: The disclosures on pages 28 to 31 that describe those The group financial statements have been properly risks and explain how they are being managed or prepared in accordance with International Financial mitigated: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the The directors statement in note 1 c to the financial European Union: statements about whether they considered it appropriate The parent company financial statements have been to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom preparing them and their identification of any material Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the over a period of at least 12 months from the date of UK and Republic of Ireland: and approval of the financial statements: The financial statements have been prepared in The directors explanation on page 46 as to how they have accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act assessed the prospects of the group, over what period 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, they have done so and why they consider that period to be Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Regulation.
reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income over the period of their assessment, including any related Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated qualifications or assumptions.
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Company Balance Sheet, the Company We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or in the preparation of the group financial statements is conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been concern.
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Independence Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our Ireland.
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the Going concern and the directors assessment of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Our assessment of risks of material misstatement As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the The assessed risks of material misstatement described directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 c strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing to the financial statements and the directors statement on the efforts of the engagement team: the longer-term viability of the group contained within the Directors Report.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Loan impairment provisions Our procedures included understanding and testing the As detailed in note 2, critical accounting estimates and controls in respect of the groups loan impairment process judgements on page 99, loan impairment provisions in the such as the timely recognition of impairment provisions, the Banking division reflect estimates of the amount and timing completeness and accuracy of reports used in the loan of future recoveries which require an assessment of matters impairment process and management review processes such as future economic conditions and the value of over the calculation of collective and specific provisions.
Loan impairment provisions of 59.7 million We tested the inputs used in collective impairment models represented approximately 1% of loans and advances to and considered whether those inputs reflected default and customers.
The income statement charge for the year was recovery experience across each of the Banking divisions 37.9 million.
portfolios appropriately adjusted to reflect current experience and economic conditions where relevant.
We audited a sample of specific provisions against individually significant impaired loans including challenging collateral values and discount rates assumed in the provisions and, where relevant, with the assistance of our property valuation specialists.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 85 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition We audited the effective interest rate models by testing Interest income and fee and commission income is detailed controls, challenging the assumptions used to estimate the in note 4 on page 102 and note 2 critical accounting effective interest rates used in determining interest income estimates and judgements on page 99.
The groups revenue and re-performing a sample of effective interest rate recognition policy is detailed in note 1 h, significant calculations.
This included involving our computer audit accounting policies on page 95. specialists to test the extraction of data used in the Interest income calculations.
We audited a sample of lending arrangements Interest income on loans and advances made by the by agreeing them to loan agreements and cash receipts to group is recognised using the effective interest rate assess whether the appropriate fees and costs had been method and any fees and direct transaction costs that reflected in the effective interest rate.
form an integral part of the yield are included in the effective interest rate.
The identification of applicable fees We tested controls over revenue recognition in the Banking and direct costs to be included in the effective interest rate division.
We audited a sample of lending fees receivable by can be judgemental.
The groups net interest income was agreeing them to loan agreements and cash receipts and we 422.6 million.
assessed the accounting treatment and timing of recognition Fee and commission income of the fee.
This primarily arises in the Banking and Asset Management divisions.
The groups fee and commission We obtained a sample of Asset Management client income was 189.2 million.
agreements and checked that the fees had been calculated in accordance with the agreements and recognised The timing of recognition of fees can be judgemental as fees appropriately.
We tested a sample of accrued fees by may be recognised immediately or over a period depending reference to final assets under management determined on the nature of the service provided and determining post year end and challenged related estimates.
accrued fees can involve the use of estimates.
Goodwill We challenged managements assumptions used in the As detailed in note 2, critical accounting estimates and impairment model for goodwill.
This included challenging judgements on page 99, the directors assess the carrying cash flow forecasts by considering the accuracy of past cash value of goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and flow projections.
Using our internal valuations specialists to when there are indicators of impairment.
The carrying value independently derive discount rates, we assessed the of goodwill was 85.9 million.
appropriateness of those used by management.
We also benchmarked discount and growth rates to available external Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires estimation peer group data.
of the recoverable amount of the groups cash generating units CGUs.
The recoverable amount is determined using We performed sensitivity analysis and considered the impact forecast future cash flows and growth rates discounted at a of changes to each of the key assumptions used in rate appropriate to the relevant business and hence involve a managements impairment model.
number of assumptions and estimates.
Last year our report included a risk relating to gains less We determined materiality for the group financial statements losses arising from dealing in securities.
This risk has not as a whole to be 11.0 million 2015: 11.0 million based on been included this year as the revenue recognition does not 5% 2015: 5% of operating profit before tax.
involve significant management judgement and is dependent on control processes where there is a history of few errors Operating profit before tax was used as the basis for being identified.
determining materiality as we believe this is the key metric used by members of the company in assessing financial Managements consideration of these risks is set out in note performance.
2, critical accounting estimates and judgements, on page 99.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all on page 56. audit differences in excess of 220,000 2015: 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion when assessing the overall presentation of the financial on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 86 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit In particular, we are required to consider whether we have Our group audit scope focused on each of the divisions of identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge the group, all of which comprise subsidiaries which are acquired during the audit and the directors statement that subject to full scope audits for the year ended 31 July 2016. they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Our audits of each subsidiary were planned using levels of understandable and whether the Annual Report materiality appropriate for each subsidiary on a standalone appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated basis, up to a maximum of 9.9 million 2015: 8.3 million.
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been Together with the groups and the Banking central functions, disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such which were also subject to a full scope audit, our audit scope inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor The group audit team works closely with the divisional and As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors subsidiary audit teams throughout the audit and the senior Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the statutory auditor met with divisional senior management preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied during the year.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies accordance with applicable law and International Standards Act 2006 on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with In our opinion: International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
The part of the Report of the Board on Directors Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in quality control procedures are effective, understood and accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our The information given in the Strategic Report and the dedicated professional standards review team and Directors Report for the financial year for which the independent partner reviews.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Adequacy of explanations received and accounting so that we might state to the companys members those records matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent you if, in our opinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have not received all the information and explanations to anyone other than the company and the companys we require for our audit: or members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the opinions we have formed.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements The parent company financial statements are not in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Directors remuneration accounting policies are appropriate to the group and the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to parent companys circumstances and have been report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the remuneration have not been made or the part of the Report reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited is not the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonhave nothing to report arising from these matters.
financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Corporate Governance Statement identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Robert Topley Senior statutory auditor Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information London, United Kingdom in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 27 September 2016 financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
