REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT During the year, the Committee were made aware of a minor error in the calculation of the budgeted forecast Dear Shareholder, Administration Cost Ratio as % of net rental income against which the respective 2016 targets were set.
As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased It was agreed that the 2016 KPI targets should be to present the report of the Board covering our revised Directors recalibrated and adjusted downwards on a pro-rated Remuneration Policy and the implementation of our existing basis by 80 basis points.
The Committee felt that the policy for the year ended 31 December 2016. revised targets were more challenging given the In this years report, we set out the following: information provided by the Company: The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee As set out in last years Report, meeting the KPI targets Chairman: would also have triggered the release of a further 5,000 shares as part of Mr Widlunds appointment as Chief The revised Directors Remuneration Policy: and Executive Officer.
On the basis that not all of the KPI The Annual Report on Remuneration setting out in more targets were met, no shares were released during 2016 detail payments and awards made to the Directors under and this element of the award lapsed.
There are no further the existing Remuneration Policy and the link between recruitment remuneration awards for Mr Widlund: and Company performance and remuneration for the 2016 The Committee determined that Henry Klotzs outstanding financial year.
contribution to the Company over 2016 had not been fully recognised through his Executive Chairman fee given that 2016 Company Performance he did not participate in any incentive arrangement for 2016.
As set out in the Chairmans Statement, our 2016 results To recognise his exceptional contribution to the Company reflected a positive year for the Group with EPRA earnings during 2016, the Remuneration Committee determined per share and EPRA NAV rising to their highest ever levels that Mr Klotz should receive a one-off, exceptional and the vacancy rate and cost of debt fell to record lows.
160,000 cash payment equivalent to 80% of his Executive Chairman fee.
This award is subject to shareholder 2016 Remuneration Outcomes approval at the 2017 AGM.
The Companys pay structure is clear, consistent with the In our assessment, the overall remuneration payments for market and aims to align the interests of the Executive Directors, 2016 represent a balanced outcome.
The annual report on senior managers and employees with those of shareholders.
remuneration together with this annual statement is subject In line with this commitment to link executive remuneration to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
to annual corporate performance and long-term shareholder returns, the performance levels outlined above have resulted 2017 Remuneration Policy in lower pay outcomes in 2016.
This ensured that the 2016 The Remuneration Policy disclosed in this report has been remuneration outcomes fairly reflect our corporate performance.
revised during the year and will be put to shareholders for The main remuneration outcomes are given below: approval at the 2017 AGM, in line with normal timescales.
Executive salaries will be increased by the Group employee The variable element of our existing Policy is provided through average rate of 2.7% for 2017: the PIP which provides a combination of annual cash payouts Non-Executive fee levels will be increased by 9% for 2017, and a deferral into Company shares.
The Company has not which reflects their increased responsibilities since the operated a traditional UK long-term incentive plan in the Company joined the FTSE 250 index, and the comparatively past due:- low level of fees currently: to the cyclicality of the business making the setting of As outlined above and in more detail in the Strategic long-term performance targets challenging: Report, the Committee determined that all but one of the the desire of the Committee to use a holistic approach to Key Performance Indicators KPIs for 2016 had been met performance measurement in practice the number of and that Performance Incentive Plan PIP plan account measures which can be used with an LTIP are limited due contributions of 76% and 73.5% of maximum to Mr Widlund to the need to disclose at grant for a three year period : and and Mr Whiteley accurately reflected the performance of the Committees objective of operating a simple incentive the Group through 2016: programme.
The KPI that fell short of the target was TSR at -13.8%.
However, after undertaking a remuneration review the In line with not achieving this KPI no contribution was Committee believes that the inclusion of an additional element made to the Executive Directors PIP accounts for 2016 to the PIP which retains the advantages of the current Plan but in respect of this element.
This performance level was is paid in long-term equity will help generate an appropriate also below the minimum threshold performance level in focus by the executives on ensuring annual performance flows respect of the forfeiture provision on deferred PIP amounts.
through to long-term sustainable performance.
However, the Committee has determined that it will exercise its discretion not to apply forfeiture to the deferred PIP balance after undertaking a holistic assessment of the Companys underlying financial and strategic performance for 2016 and against the backdrop of significant value creation both absolute and relative for shareholders since the introduction of the PIP 159% TSR growth compared with 92% for FTSE350 Real Estate Index : 48 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 As explained in the Executive Chairmans statement, the One of the alternative models suggested by the Company aims to grow the property portfolio significantly over Executive Reward Working Group in their report.
the next five years in order to generate long-term returns to Supportive of corporate governance and best practice:- shareholders.
In order to support the strategy the Committee Simplicity: believes that the new Remuneration Policy should retain, motivate and reward executives to deliver this strategic objective Deferral of a proportion of annual bonus in and facilitate the recruitment of key talent.
This breaks down shares supporting the alignment of the interests into the following:- of executives and shareholders: in order to ensure the achievement of the Companys key The support of the build-up of a long-term locked strategic objectives, the executives need to be motivated in shareholding by executives: and rewarded for the successful delivery of key annual The facilitation of malus and clawback by having objectives which given the current instability in the a significant amount of the incentives earned property sector is imperative to the future growth of deferred in shares and under the control of the the Company: Company post the determination of the bonus for the requirement to provide a lock-in for the executives a particular year.
given the recent changes to the Board structure which Increases the competitive position of the Company.
means their continued retention is key for the on-going success and growth of the Company: No material change to the existing PIP which continues to provide a combination of annual cash payouts and the alignment of the executives with the shareholder deferral into Company shares subject to forfeiture experience through the build-up and retention of provisions with a maximum annual contribution of 150% meaningful shareholdings in the Company: of salary this is now termed Element A.
The forfeiture the need to ensure that the total compensation levels provisions under Element A of the PIP will now be based are competitive in the industry in which the Company on the Committees holistic assessment of performance.
The Committee is therefore mindful The Committee feels that this change will provide it with that the total remuneration opportunity for Executive the ability to ensure that pay outcomes in any year will be Directors remains market competitive compared to commensurate with long-term Company performance.
peers in the FTSE 250 real estate sector.
The Committee The Committee believes that the advantages of Element A review of the current Policy highlighted that there was a have been already proved and are largely the same as for remuneration gap to the market.
Therefore, the introduction Element B above: of new equity elements under the PIP helps to ensure a Increased shareholding requirement of 250% of salary for more competitive market positioning provided that the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for Executive executive team deliver the annual performance objectives Chairman and Chief Financial Officer: and that these lead to long-term sustainable performance: Introduction of an all employee share plan whereby the requirement of the new Policy to reflect the diverse participants can benefit from 1 Matching Share for each nature of roles on the Executive Board and an increased Partnership Share purchased: and time commitment for some of those roles: and Clarifying the difference in policy between the founder there are no changes to base salary, pension and benefits shareholder and the other Executive Directors in the policy for the Executive Directors beyond the standard awards table to reflect the diverse nature of roles on the Executive for all employees.
Board and an increased time commitment for some of As such, we have made some changes to the previous those roles.
This clarification results in no change in Remuneration Policy see below which are primarily designed remuneration level.
to address these issues: The Committee also undertook its annual review of the Introduction of PIP Element B which provides an annual appropriateness of the Key Performance Indicators KPIs award of shares up to 100% of salary vesting after 3 years that form the basis of Executive Directors bonuses under the with a further 2 year holding period.
Award levels will be Performance Incentive Plan PIP and their associated targets, determined against the same annual scorecard of which also formed part of the shareholder consultation.
The Committee The Committee received information from its advisers and believes that the advantages of this new Element B are: brokers and considered market forecasts and shareholder Annual assessment of performance allowing:- responses to its consultation.
We concluded that a differential in weightings of the KPIs between the CEO and CFO should Incorporation of a wider range of operational and be retained, that some targets needed to be reset and there strategic objectives: should be fewer KPIs overall whilst still maintaining a good Assists in the management of any cyclicality in spectrum of Group performance.
The Committee decided that the business.
the Return on Equity, NAV Growth and Core profit over budget Simple.
KPIs should be removed to avoid duplication or the potential for short term decision making.
Following shareholder Retentive as the sole condition once the deferred feedback, the scorecard weightings were rebased to focus on shares have been earned over the period of deferral TSR, with the additional relative TSR KPI measure such that is continued employment.
there was a clear alignment between management and shareholders interests.
49 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 Committee members attendance during the year ended The Administration Cost Ratio KPI targets for 2017 were 31 December 2016 tightened such that they were realigned with the Group budget.
The EPRA NAV Growth and Absolute TSR KPIs have been Chris Jarvis Chairman 1 1 marginally relaxed to take account of market conditions and Malcolm Cooper 1 1 forecasts.
The Committee considers that they remain sufficiently challenging but attainable.
The amendments to Lennart Sten 1 1 the targets and removal of three KPIs and the addition of the relative TSR KPI are set out on pages 67 and 68.
Remuneration Committee regular attendees for part The Committee undertook a thorough and detailed consultation by invitation with our major shareholders in relation to these changes and received positive responses.
We are confident that we have Marcus Peaker PwC created a Remuneration Policy that balances the needs and Fredrik Widlund Chief Executive Officer expectations of management and shareholders, links directly to the Companys strategy and continues to provide the Company Secretary and Secretary David Fuller Committee with the ability to deal with the uncertainty of the to the Remuneration Committee real estate sector.
I very much hope you will support our proposed Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Christopher Jarvis Membership Chairman Remuneration Committee The Committees membership remains unchanged, comprising three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met once during 2016 although it held a number of informal discussions with Executive Directors and the Sten and Karin Mortstedt Family and Charity Trust during the year.
