Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 PART 1: POLICY ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION THE PRINCIPLES OF OUR REMUNERATION POLICY Competitive Total remuneration should be competitive when compared with industry peers and companies of similar size and scale.
Performance linked A significant part of the Executive Directors reward is determined by the Companys success.
Failure to achieve threshold levels of performance may result in both no bonus under the PIP and partial forfeiture of earned deferred elements from previous years.
The fixed element of the Policy remain conservative against industry and cross-sector peers.
Shareholder aligned A considerable part of the reward is paid in shares that have to be retained until minimum shareholding requirements have been met and in the case of Element B for 5 years from grant.
Simple and transparent By operating only one executive incentive plan all aspects of the remuneration structure are clear to participants and openly communicable.
NEW POLICY In accordance with the regulations, a new Policy on Directors Remuneration the Policy as set out below will operate from 1 January 2017 and be put to a binding shareholders vote and become formally effective if approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting in April.
The existing Policy, which was approved on 16 April 2014, remains operative until this time and can be found on our website at www.
com and on pages 48 to 56 of our 2013 Annual Report.
The Companys policy on remuneration is to set overall remuneration packages at a level sufficient to attract, retain and incentivise high calibre staff with a view to enhancing long-term shareholder value.
The Committee also considers the level of pay and employment conditions throughout the Group when setting Executive Directors remuneration, consistent with the Companys general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
The Committee will review the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and key senior management periodically in line with the three year Policy cycle, drawing on trends made to all employees across the Group and taking into consideration the following factors: the businesss strategy over the period: overall corporate performance: market conditions affecting the Company.
The Committee uses the following comparators for executive remuneration: FTSE 350 Real Estate Supersector U I plc, Helical Bar plc, Hansteen plc, Workspace Group plc, St Modwens plc, Londonmetric plc, Grainger plc, Shaftsbury plc, Great Portland Estates plc, Derwent London plc.
These companies are of a similar size and or complexity to the Group, but the comparator group is kept under review as different companies enter the market or change their size or the main characteristics of their business: and FTSE 250 changing practice in the international market where the Company competes for talent: pay conditions elsewhere in the Group: changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies: and the recruitment market.
51 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 Key components of Directors Remuneration Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Performance Matrix Executive Directors excluding the Founder Shareholder Base Provides a base level of Reviewed annually and usually Competitive in the range for the None, although Salary remuneration to support fixed for 12 months commencing Companys comparator groups.
individuals recruitment and retention 1 January.
performance and The Committee intends to of Directors with the contribution are Factors taken into account include: review the list of companies necessary experience and taken into account.
each year and may add or expertise to deliver the remuneration practices remove companies from the Groups strategy.
within the Group: groups as it considers Key element of core fixed appropriate.
Any changes to the general performance remuneration.
the comparator groups will be of the Group: disclosed in the part of the experience and individual report setting out the operation performance: of the policy for the future year.
changes in the scale, In general salary rises to scope or responsibilities: Executive Directors will be in line with the rise to UK based salaries within the ranges employees.
paid by the companies in the comparator groups used for Maximum increase of 5% of remuneration benchmarking salary per annum unless there when the Committee is a significant change to the determines a benchmarking role and responsibilities.
exercise is appropriate : and the economic environment.
Benefits Provides a base level of The key benefits provided to the Market level in the range for the None.
remuneration to support Executive Directors include Companys comparator groups.
recruitment and retention private medical insurance, life The maximum will be set at of Directors with the insurance, income protection, the cost of providing the necessary experience and gym contribution and staff benefits described.
expertise to deliver the lunch provision.
The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits that ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel.
Accordingly, the Committee would expect to be able to adopt benefits such as relocation expenses, tax equalisation and support in meeting specific costs incurred by Directors to ensure the Company and the individuals comply with their obligations in the reporting of remuneration.
Pensions Provides a standard UK Employer retirement funding is Market level in the range None.
market level of retirement determined as a percentage of for the Companys funding to enable the gross basic salary, up to a comparator groups.
Company to recruit and maximum limit of 10%.
Where The maximum Company retain Directors with the this exceeds the maximum contribution is 10%.
experience and expertise to annual pension contribution that The maximum employee deliver the Groups strategy.
can benefit from tax relief, any contribution is 5%.
excess may be provided in the form of a salary supplement, which would not itself be pensionable or form part of salary for the purposes of determining the extent of participation in the Companys incentive arrangements.
52 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Key components of Directors Remuneration continued Performance Matrix Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity All employee The Companys Share In line with the legislation The maximum opportunity None.
share Incentive Plan SIP allows for this type of plan.
will be in line with the plan all employees, including limits set by HMRC.
Executive Directors, to share in the potential value created by the Company.
Increase share ownership throughout the organisation.
Performance The PIP provides a The PIP consists of two Maximum 250% of salary The performance metrics Incentive significant incentive to the elements Element A and 150% of salary under for both elements of the PIP Plan Executive Directors linked to Element B : Element A and 100% of are set individually by the the PIP achievement of delivering salary under Element B.
Committee and are based on A. an immediate element goals that are closely a combination of measures, in cash and or shares: At threshold 41% of the aligned with the Companys based on the Companys and maximum is payable.
strategy and the creation KPIs the performance of value for shareholders.
conditions for the 2016 B. deferred share-based At on target 68% of the In particular, the PIP financial year will be detailed element subject to maximum is payable.
supports the Companys in the Annual Remuneration pre-grant annual objectives by: Report as will the conditions performance for 2017 in the section on assessment, which allowing the setting of how the policy will be is subject to a 3 year annual targets based on operated for the future year.
vesting period and the businesses strategic The PIP is measured over a a further 2 year objectives at that time, period of one financial year.
meaning that a wider range of performance In order for the Company Market Standard malus and metrics can be used that to be successful, the clawback provisions apply are relevant and suitably Committee believes to the PIP all Elements stretching whilst also Executive Directors should Under Element A, there providing sufficient be focused on the delivery of are forfeiture provisions if incentive linked to the Companys strategic and minimum thresholds are potential to be achievable: operational KPIs which is the not achieved.
This holistic basis on which performance providing substantial assessment will take conditions are selected for deferral in shares and account of relative TSR, the PIP.
ongoing adjustment by absolute TSR, strategic, requiring a threshold financial and operational The Committee retains level of performance to discretion in exceptional performance.
be achieved during the circumstances to change The Committee has deferral period.
Amounts performance measures and discretion to provide deferred in shares are targets for each element and dividend equivalents on also forfeitable on a the weightings attached to Element A and B shares.
Directors voluntary performance measures partcessation of employment way through a performance which provides an year if there is a significant effective lock-in: and and material event which causes the Committee to enables the Company believe the original to recruit top executive measures, weightings and talent in a highly targets are no longer competitive market.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Committee believe that the PIP outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
53 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance Matrix Founder Shareholder Base Salary As above.
Other Provides for specific Approval by the Remuneration Market rates.
remuneration duties outside letter Committee of any fees and the of appointment basis of these fees, which will be disclosed in full to shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors including Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Vice Chairman Performance Matrix Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Fees Provides a level of fees to Fees are reviewed annually and Competitive in the range for the None.
support recruitment and fixed for 12 months commencing Companys comparator groups.
The fees are based Non-Executive Directors do Directors with the necessary on equivalent roles in the not participate in any variable experience to advise and comparator groups used to remuneration or benefits assist with establishing review salaries paid to the arrangements.
and monitoring the Groups Executive Directors.
are set at a competitive level Fees related to consultancy will to the comparator groups.
be agreed in advance and no higher than the market rate.
The Board as a whole is responsible for setting In general the level of fee the remuneration of the increase for the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Directors and will be set taking account of any change in Non-Executive Directors are paid responsibility and the general a base fee and additional fees for rise in salaries across employees.
chairmanship and membership of committees and other specific The Company will pay reasonable work outside their role as a expenses incurred by the Non-Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director may settle any tax incurred in also receives an additional fee.
Other benefits include travel, accommodation and membership subscriptions related to the Companys business.
Notes to the Policy Table 1.
Performance Incentive Plan Currently only the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will participate in the PIP: the Founder Shareholder and the Executive Chairman do not participate.
The Executive Chairman Henry Klotz was previously a participant in the PIP but upon transferring from the full time role of Executive Vice Chairman to part time Executive Chairman, it was determined that he would no longer participate in the PIP.
At present, it is not anticipated that he will participate in the PIP in the future.
Shareholding Requirement Within five years of approval of the revised Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors are expected to hold Company shares with a value of 250% of basic salary in respect of the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of basic salary in respect of the Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee takes into consideration achievement against these targets when making awards under the PIP.
54 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.
Changes from existing Remuneration Policy Element Proposed Policy and operation for 2017 Base Salary Introduction of 5% maximum increase per annum.
Performance Policy revised to incorporate PIP Element B where Element A has the same structure as the current PIP.
Incentive Plan Both elements are outlined below: PIP Element A Maximum annual contribution into a Participants Plan Account of 150% of salary: Contributions will be earned based on the Corporate KPIs and the individuals personal performance rating: Contributions will be made for three years with payments made over four years: 50% of the value of a Participants Plan Account will be paid out annually for three years with 100% of the residual value paid out at the end of year four: 50% of the unpaid balance of a Participants Plan account will be at risk of annual forfeiture, the application of which will take account of relative TSR, absolute TSR, strategic, financial and operational performance.
Element B Maximum annual deferred share award of up to 100% of salary: Deferred share award will be earned based on the same performance conditions as set for Element A: Shares earned under Element B are subject to a three year vesting period during which the Participant must remain employed by the Company and cannot be sold for five years from the date of award irrespective of employment status.
Awards under Element B will be made in March April of the year following the year during which performance was measured.
It is proposed that the first grants under Element B will be made in 2017 based on the level of satisfaction of the Element A targets set for 2016 All Employee The Company is proposing to introduce a Share Incentive Plan SIP to allow all employees, including Share Plan Executive Directors, to share in the potential value created by the Company.
Founder The founder shareholders remuneration package will consist of the following elements : Shareholder Base salary in line with the other Executive Directors: and In certain circumstances the Company may pay additional fees for specific duties outside the letter of appointment.
Any fees and the basis of these fees will be disclosed in full to shareholders.
There are no changes to the Policy in relation to Non-Executive Directors remuneration.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of the Policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretion under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders.
In addition the Committee has the discretion to amend the policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where, in the opinion of the Committee, it would be disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to the date of the 2017 AGM will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made after the AGM and may be inconsistent with the above policies.
Such commitments include but are not limited to any deferred balanced already held in the PIP.
Such commitments remain subject to the share plan rules and terms and conditions under which they were granted.
Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees which is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for Executive Directors, with the exception of Element A of the Performance Incentive Plan.
It is the Companys intention that Element B of the Performance Incentive Plan will extend to Senior Management within the Company, with the number of employees eligible to participate being approximately 12.
The Companys remuneration philosophy for all management from the Executive Directors downwards is that all employees should have a significant annual element of performance-based pay with part provided in deferred shares to ensure a focus on long-term sustainable value creation and to align their experience with those of shareholders.
For all employees, the Group operates a performance-based discretionary bonus scheme and a loyalty bonus scheme based on employment longevity.
The Company is also proposing to launch a Share Incentive Plan SIP in order to increase levels of share-ownership throughout the Company and allow employees to share in the success of the Company in a tax-efficient manner.
Additionally the Groups pension contributions to an employees pension scheme are determined by their length of service from a minimum of 5% up to a maximum of 10%.
55 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
The remuneration package for any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the current Executive Directors.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and is aware of guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance conditions associated with an award.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the Policy would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the Policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the employee.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of a new director is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Base salary and benefits The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, experience and the salaries paid to similar roles in comparable companies.
The Committee will apply the Policy set out on salaries for the current Executive Directors in the Remuneration Policy table.
The Executive Director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with the Companys benefits policy as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
Pension The Executive Director will be entitled to receive contributions into a pension plan or alternatively to receive a supplement in lieu of pension contributions in line with Companys pension policy as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
PIP The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the PIP as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum potential opportunity under this Plan is 250% of salary.
Maximum Variable Remuneration The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted is 250% of salary under the PIP excluding the value of any buy-out awards.
Buy Out of incentives forfeited on The Companys policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
However, should cessation of employment the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justifies the provision of a buy-out, the equivalent value of any incentives to be forfeited on cessation of a previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the PIP.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy-out within the terms of the Companys PIP, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation Policies Where the new Executive Director is required to relocate from one work-base to another, the Company may provide one-off ongoing compensation as part of the Directors relocation benefits to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive Director in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance and schooling.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the Policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
56 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Service Contracts Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract of no fixed term.
There is no provision in the contracts of Mr Mortstedt, Mr Klotz, Mr Widlund or Mr Whiteley for contractual termination payments, save for those payments normally due under employment law.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment but, in accordance with best practice, none has a service contract.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed until such time as they are not re-elected.
In compliance with the Code, all Company Directors will face re-election at the Companys AGM in April.
If a director fails to be re-elected the terms of their appointment will cease.
It is the Companys policy not to offer notice periods of more than 12 months exercisable by either party.
Details of the service contracts or letters of appointment of those who served as Directors during the year are as follows: Name Contract Date Notice Period Henry Klotz Executive 10 November 2015 6 months Fredrik Widlund Executive 3 November 2014 12 months John Whiteley Executive 1 October 2009 6 months Sten Mortstedt Executive 1 January 2005 12 months Malcolm Cooper Non-Executive 15 June 2007 3 months Joseph Crawley Non-Executive 25 November 2008 3 months Elizabeth Edwards Non-Executive 13 May 2014 3 months Christopher Jarvis Non-Executive 25 November 2008 3 months Thomas Lundqvist Non-Executive 1 October 1995 3 months Philip Mortstedt Non-Executive 11 May 2015 3 months Anna Seeley Non-Executive 11 May 2015 3 months Lennart Sten Non-Executive 1 August 2014 3 months Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the prior approval of the Board.
If approved, they may each retain the fees payable.
Pension is 10% of Base Salary Pension is 10% of Base Salary Pension is 10% of Base Salary PIP Incentive 0% 68% 100% Element A and Element B As per the Policy, the Executive Chairman and Executive Director Founder Shareholder do not participate in the PIP incentive arrangements.
57 Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 Policy on Payment for loss of office When determining any loss of office payment for a departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Remuneration element Approach Application of Committee discretion Salary and In the event of termination by The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
benefits the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be a maximum of twelve months salary.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary and benefits that the Executive Director would have received if still in employment with the Company.
These will be paid over the notice period.
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within a twelve month period of their departure from the Company.
Pension Pension contributions or The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
payments in lieu of pension contribution will be made during the notice period.
Element A For the Year of Cessation For the Year of Cessation of the PIP Good leavers: Performance Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: conditions will be measured at the to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
It is the Committees measurement date.
The Company intention to use this discretion only in circumstances where there is an bonus contribution will normally appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and be pro-rated for the period worked during the financial year.
to determine whether to pro-rate the Company bonus contribution to time.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate for time.
Other leavers: No Company It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion not to pro-rate bonus contribution payable for in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be year of cessation.
explained in full to shareholders.
Deferred Balances in Participants Deferred Balances in Participants Plan Account Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: Plan Account Good leavers: The balance in to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
It is the Remuneration the Participants Plan account Committees intention to use this discretion only in circumstances where there will be payable on cessation is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: of employment.
to determine whether the payment of the balance of the Participants Plan Other leavers: The balance in Account should be in cash or shares or a combination of both: the Participants Plan Account to determine whether to pro-rate the balance of the Participants Plan account will be forfeited on cessation payable on cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate.
The Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
58 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration element Approach Application of Committee discretion Element B For the Year of Cessation For the Year of Cessation of the PIP Good leavers: Performance Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: conditions will be measured to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
It is the Committees at the measurement date.
The intention to use this discretion only in circumstances where there is an award will normally be pro-rated appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: for the period worked during the to determine whether to pro-rate the Company award to time.
normal policy is that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the Committees intention to Other leavers: No Element B award use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate for year of cessation.
business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to determine whether the Element B award will vest on the date of cessation or the original vesting date.
The Committee will make its determination based amongst other factors on the reason for the cessation of employment: to determine whether to provide the Element B award in the form of cash or shares.
Subsisting Element B Awards Subsisting Element B awards Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: Good leavers: Element B awards will vest on their original vesting to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
It is the Committees dates and remain subject to the intention to use this discretion only in circumstances where there is an sale restrictions.
appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: Other leavers: Element B awards to determine whether to pro-rate the Element B award to the date of cessation.
will be forfeited on cessation The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate.
The Committee will of employment.
determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure: to determine whether the Element B awards vest on the date of cessation or the original vesting date.
The Committee will make its determination based amongst other factors on the reason for the cessation of employment.
Other There are no other contractual None.
contractual provisions other than those set obligations out above that could impact the quantum of the payment.
A good leaver is a person whose cessation of employment is for one of the following reasons:- death: ill-health: injury or disability: redundancy: retirement: employing company ceasing to be a Group company: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and where the person is designated a good leaver at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
A person who ceases employment in circumstances other than those set out above is designated an other leaver.
59 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 Change of Control The Companys approach to payments from the PIP under a change of control is as follows: Element Approach Application of Committee discretion For the Year of the Change For the Year of the Change of Control Element A of Control Discretion: the Committee has the following element of discretion: Performance conditions will be to determine whether to pro-rate the Company bonus contribution to time.
measured at the date of the The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the change of control.
The Company Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances bonus contribution will normally where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full be pro-rated to the date of the to shareholders.
Deferred Balances in Participants Deferred Balances in Participants Plan Account Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: Plan Account The balance in the Participants to determine whether the payment of the balance of the Participants Plan Plan account will be payable on Account should be in cash or shares or a combination of both: the change of control.
to determine whether to pro-rate the balance of the Participants Plan account payable on change of control.
The Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of change of control.
Element B For the Year of the Change For the Year of the Change of Control of Control Discretion: the Committee has the following element of discretion: Performance conditions will be to determine whether to pro-rate the Element B award to time.
The Committees measured at the date of the normal policy is that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the Committees intention to change of control.
The award will use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate normally be pro-rated to the date business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Subsisting Element B Awards Subsisting Element B Awards Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: The awards will vest on the date of the change of control and the sale to determine whether the satisfaction of Element B awards should be in cash restrictions will fall away.
or shares or a combination of both: to determine whether to pro-rate Element B awards on change of control.
Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Group The salary and benefits package provided to employees is taken into account when setting the Policy for executive remuneration.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increases for the broader employee population when determining the remuneration for Executive Directors.
It also considers the wider market conditions in order to ensure that employee remuneration below Board level remains competitive.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Through the Board, however, the Committee is updated as to employee views on remuneration generally.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Committee sought the views of shareholders on the 2017 Remuneration Policy incorporating the Performance Incentive Plan Element B and made some amendments following their responses in relation to the reduction of the number of KPIs, the addition of a relative TSR KPI and the amendment to the weightings for all scorecards to focus more heavily on Absolute and Relative TSR.
In setting the Policy, the Committee is aware of the views of shareholders generally in relation to pay and aims to ensure that it is fair and reflective of market conditions and the ability to attract, retain and incentivise the best people to implement the Groups strategy.
Any additional shareholder feedback is considered by the Committee and the Board as a whole.
