Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration decisions reflect unsatisfactory performance Dear Shareholder 2016 has been a very disappointing and challenging year.
This letter and the Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the Remuneration Committee has determined the outcome of remuneration decisions for the outgoing Executive Directors in addition to establishing appropriate competitive remuneration packages for the incoming CEO and CFO.
The Committee has, throughout 2016, been very focused on the key issue of pay for performance and has applied this discipline by awarding no incentive payments to the outgoing Executive Directors, Bob Murphy and Simon Nicholls.
In addition, any of their outstanding long term incentive awards including deferred shares have lapsed.
Remuneration Policy review Shareholders are being asked to approve a new Remuneration Policy at our AGM in April 2017 in accordance with the legislation as it has been three years since our current Remuneration Policy was approved.
However, due to the timing of the announced changes to the senior members of our executive team, the Committee is not proposing a significant overhaul of our Remuneration Policy.
The small number of changes proposed, details of which are provided on page 65 of the Directors Remuneration Report, are largely in adherence to best practice and to reflect the terms agreed for the new Executive Directors.
A more fundamental review of the Remuneration Policy will then be carried out during 2017 to ensure that the forward looking Remuneration Policy of the business is aligned to the priorities and targets agreed with the new executive team.
It is the current intention that shareholders will be asked to approve a further revised Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM.
The key challenges and issues that the Committee addressed during the year Exiting the existing Executive Directors with due consideration for pay for performance: Establishing appropriate packages within our current Remuneration Policy to recognise the experience and calibre of the two new Executive Directors, No incentive awards balanced with shareholder expectations: Review of the approach to the 2016 Annual Incentive Plan, recognising the have been made current challenges facing the business: The introduction of a Medium Term Incentive Plan, MTIP, for individuals to the outgoing below the Board which was designed to address the challenges of setting Executive Directors long term financial performance targets at present and focus individuals on reducing the net debt to EBITDA ratio over the medium term: and As far as possible, ensuring remuneration arrangements remain simple and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
How company performance during the year is reflected in the remuneration outcome Overall trading in the year has been challenging and significantly below managements and the Boards expectations.
This has been impacted by significant management, operational, execution and market issues.
The impact on earnings and cash flow generation for operations from this, together with the ongoing investment requirement in long term development programmes principally related to next generation aerial refuelling, led to the Group carrying out a rights issue, during 2016, to reduce its indebtedness.
However, even with the proceeds of the rights issue being used to pay down some debt, the balance sheet is not strong enough to properly support the Groups operations.
com Cobham plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As a result, the financial targets were not met in respect of the 2016 AIP and awards on a comparable basis to those of the forfeit arrangements and that the the out-going CEO and CFO received zero pay-out.
In addition, performance value awarded by Cobham does not exceed those of the forfeit arrangements, conditions in respect of the PSP awards made in 2014 with a performance taking into account any performance conditions.
The Companys standard period ending on 31 December 2016 were not met and awards lapsed in full.
malus and clawback provisions will apply to all buy-out awards.
In addition, the Committee may recover up to 100% of the buyout awards in the event the Leaving arrangements for the departing CEO and CFO candidate gives notice within 24 months of joining.
Bob Murphy stepped down as CEO and ceased to be an Executive Director with effect from 14 December 2016.
He ceased employment with the Company on It should be noted that David Lockwood, in light of recent developments at 31 January 2017.
Laird plc, and in demonstration of his commitment to his new role as CEO of Cobham, has agreed that there will be no compensation for the buyout of his Simon Nicholls stepped down as CFO and ceased to be an Executive Director on Laird 2014 15 long term incentive awards that he will forfeit as a consequence 31 December 2016 and remained in the Companys employment until the end of joining Cobham.
In addition, he will also receive no payment for his forfeited of his notice period on 17 January 2017, in order to facilitate an orderly handover Laird 2016 annual bonus.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is fair to his successor.
and appropriate in line with pay for performance guidelines.
As outlined above, recognising that recent performance has been at Further detail on the buy-out of forfeited awards for the incoming CEO & CFO unacceptable levels, the Remuneration Committee determined that no AIP are on page 77. payments would be made to the Executive Directors in respect of 2016.
In addition, no discretion has been exercised under the terms of the long term Fee levels for the new Chairman incentive arrangements and all outstanding deferred shares from BCP and PSP As previously announced, John Devaney stepped down as the Companys awards lapsed upon cessation of employment.
Furthermore, the departure Chairman on 31 December 2016 and Michael Wareing the Companys Senior terms were aligned with the minimum provided for under the CEOs contract.
Independent Director at that point became Chairman.
Michael will receive Full details of the departure terms are set out on page 76 of the Annual Report a fee of 270,000 per annum, which is slightly below the fee level of 280,000 on Remuneration.
paid to the outgoing Chairman.
The intended remuneration arrangements for the current year Key future issues to be addressed by the Committee The remuneration packages for both the CEO and CFO are in accordance Further review of the Remuneration Policy to ensure it provides a remuneration with the current Remuneration Policy.
They consist of fixed pay base salary, framework that supports the business going forwards as performance starts to benefits and pension an annual bonus of 150% at the same level of the turn around and is aligned to the medium to long term strategy of the Company.
previous Executive Directors and LTIP awards of 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO.
With his appointment as Chairman, Michael Wareing has ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee and the composition of the Committee going The remuneration packages for the incoming Executive Directors were subject forward will be addressed as part of the Board refresh.
to extensive discussion and review by the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst cognisant of external benchmarks, the level of both packages was determined Comment on stakeholder engagement conducted by the Board wishing to recruit the best people for the job given the operational We have taken into account feedback from shareholders received in recent challenges and restructuring required to restore the financial performance of the consultation and as a result have increased the disclosure and explanation Group to acceptable levels for shareholders.
of remuneration decisions taken in 2016.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to seek feedback from shareholders, during the course of 2017, The LTIP award to the CEO is higher than the awards to the previous CEO particularly as we continue to review the Remuneration Policy.
150% of salary which takes into account the overall market competitiveness of the total package as well as the introduction of an additional two year Conclusion holding period and is provided for upon recruitment under the current Throughout 2016, as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I have endeavoured Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders are being asked to approve an increase to ensure that we exercise rigour and discipline in all remuneration decisions, to the normal maximum PSP award as part of the revised Remuneration recognising that the established incentive schemes have clearly failed to provide Policy at the 2017 AGM.
a framework for delivering a satisfactory outcome for both shareholders and the business.
The priority for 2017 will be to establish a revised Remuneration Policy Further details of the on-going remuneration packages for the two Executive for the Executive Directors that supports the restructuring required and aligns Directors are provided on pages 76 and 77 of the Annual Report on with shareholder expectations.
We have also agreed to a relocation payment to allow David Lockwood to relocate to Wimborne which the Board felt was an important change to have the CEO located at the heart of the business operations.
We will be providing further disclosure when costs of the relocation are known.
Both Executive Directors forfeited awards at their previous employer as a result of Alison Wood joining Cobham.
The Remuneration Committees approach to assessing the value Remuneration Committee Chair of any awards forfeited by them was to make sure that these are replaced with 2 March 2017 www.
com Cobham plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Role and focus Key issues and activities The Remuneration Committees main duties are to: Matters considered by the Committee during 2016 were: Make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policies on Executive Apr Apr Directors remuneration and ensure alignment to the Groups strategic plan: and Feb Jun Jul Sep Dec 14 28 Determine, on the Boards behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the Compensation awards Chairman, Executive Directors, Group Executive and Company Secretary.
previous year Membership and attendance Outgoing CFO remuneration Seven Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year, attended Incoming CFO remuneration as follows: Outgoing CEO remuneration Alison Wood Chair Incoming CEO remuneration Chairman remuneration review Birgit Nrgaard Compensation awards 1 Mark Ronald current year 2 Michael Wareing LTI performance dashboards Unable to attend Attended AIP results Chairman remuneration 1 Mark Ronald left the Committee on 28 April 2016.
2 Michael Wareing joined the Committee on 28 April 2016, having attended the three previous Group Executive objectives meetings as an observer.
Remuneration strategy AIP review targets With the appointment of Michael Wareing as Chairman he ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee, which remains quorate with two members and, LTI Medium Term Incentive review in the interim until new NEDs are recruited, I will also consult with the SID and Remuneration Policy other Board members on key remuneration decisions.
Other Updates on corporate Other attendees governance developments Executive Vice President HR, Senior Vice President Compensation and Benefits, Deloitte LLP, and the Company Secretary.
The CEO and the Chairman of the Terms of reference Board attend by invitation.
Adviser Tender Remuneration Report review No individual is present in meetings relating to decisions around their own Approval of US Sharesave new rules remuneration.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website or on application to the Company Secretary.
Committee work planning evaluation During the year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive tender process for the provision of advice and support to them.
For full details, please refer to page 76. www.
com Cobham plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 C COR ORP POR ORA ATE TE G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Directors Remuneration Policy The changes proposed are largely in adherence to best practice and to reflect the The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors, terms agreed for the new Executive Directors.
which Shareholders will be asked to approve at the AGM on 27 April 2017 and which will apply to payments made from this date is set out below.
Until this time The table below provides a summary of the main changes that have been made the Policy approved by Shareholders on 24 April 2014 will continue to apply.
to the Remuneration Policy: As set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter starting on page 62, we are not proposing a radical overhaul of the current Remuneration Policy which was approved by 98% of our shareholders in April 2014.
Proposed change Rationale Removal of Bonus Co-Investment Plan BCP.
Awards under the BCP have not been made since 2014.
It is recognised that matching plans are no longer considered best practice and its removal from the Remuneration Policy will simplify the overall remuneration framework.
Introduction of a two year holding period post To further align the long term interests of executives with shareholders.
the end of the three year performance period for LTI awards.
Formal inclusion of the shareholding guidelines in the No change to the actual guidelines which will remain at 200% of salary for the CEO and 100% Remuneration Policy.
However, will now be included in the Remuneration Policy as opposed to the Annual Remuneration Report to be aligned with best practice.
Increase in normal maximum award under the LTIP The normal maximum LTIP opportunity has been increased as part of providing an overall from 150% of salary to 200% of salary.
market competitive remuneration package for the new CEO.
It is proposed the CEO will receive an annual LTIP award of 200% of salary and awards to the CFO will remain at 150% of salary.
Remove flexibility to offer a notice period in excess of In line with market practice, Executive Directors service contracts are terminable on 12 months which would subsequently reduce to one 12 months notice by either party.
year in the case of new appointments.
Reflection of the new LTIP and other minor The policy has been amended to reflect the new LTIP for which shareholder approval will amendments.
Other minor amendments have been made to aid administration of the policy.
Remuneration and policy the policy table Purpose and Maximum Current performance Element link to strategy Operation potential value measures Base pay To provide fixed Typically reviewed annually with changes effective To avoid setting the expectations Not applicable remuneration which from 1 March and paid monthly.
of Executive Directors and other is market competitive employees, no maximum salary is to attract and retain Consideration is given to a wide range of factors, set under the Remuneration Policy.
executives of the quality including: required to deliver the Individual and company performance: However, base salary increases for Groups strategy, whilst General pay increases across the wider workforce: the Executive Directors are applied taking into account an The size and scope of the role: and in line with the outcome of the individuals experience Pay levels of comparable roles in companies of annual review and will typically be and personal contribution a similar size and complexity to the Company.
in line with the average increase to the Groups strategic in percentage terms for the plan.
Increases may be made either above or below that received by the wider workforce to take account of individual circumstances, which may include but are not limited to: A change in the scope of the role or increase in responsibility: A significant change in the size and complexity of the Group: and An individuals development or performance in role e. g. a newly appointed Executive Director being moved to be aligned with the market over time.
com Cobham plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and Maximum Current performance Element link to strategy Operation potential value measures To provide fixed The Company provides various market competitive No maximum level of benefit None Other remuneration which benefits to Executive Directors, which may include: is set under the Remuneration benefits is market competitive a company car or cash equivalent, travel allowance, Policy and the Remuneration to attract and retain private medical and dental insurance, travel accident Committee sets the level it executives of the policy, life assurance and long term disability benefit.
considers appropriate taking quality required to into account relevant market deliver the Groups Where appropriate, other benefits may be provided levels based on the nature and strategy, whilst to take account of individual circumstances, such as location of the role.
taking into account but not limited to: expatriate allowances, relocation an individuals housing allowance and education support.
Level of benefits set are in line experience and personal with those paid to other senior contribution to the executives and with regard Groups strategic plan.
to the market and individual circumstances.
Retirement To provide fixed The Company may make a payment into a pension Set at a level which the remuneration which scheme e. g. a defined contribution plan and or Remuneration Committee benefits is market competitive make a cash allowance payment set as a percentage considers appropriate taking to attract and retain of salary.
into account relevant market executives of the quality levels based on the nature required to deliver the and location of the role.
Groups strategy, whilst taking into account an Contributions of up to 30% individuals experience of base salary may be made.
and personal contribution to the Groups strategic plan.
Drives and rewards annual Measured over a one year performance period with The maximum bonus opportunity Performance Annual performance against pay out levels determined by the Committee following for any Executive Director will not is assessed Incentive selected, financial and the year end.
over a financial Plan AIP operational KPIs and year based on individual objectives The Committee may adjust the bonus pay out, either up a combination which are directly or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered of financial and linked to the Groups not to reflect underlying business performance.
which are aligned Up to 75% of any bonus is paid in cash and the balance is to the strategic mandatorily deferred into Company shares for a period objectives of of three years.
The Committee may decide to pay the whole of the The majority of the bonus earned in cash where the amount to be deferred bonus is assessed is less than 10,000. against key financial performance metrics Malus and Clawback provisions are in place which give of the business and the Committee discretion to reduce awards or require the balance based repayment of cash paid to a participant in relation to on individual annual incentives within the preceding 12 months for performance.
material misstatement of financial results, reputational damage to the Group, contravention of internal ethics For target standards or gross misconduct of the individual.
performance, up to 50% of the Deferred share awards may be released early on a change maximum bonus of control in line with the plan rules.
The Committee may make a dividend equivalent payment to reflect dividends that would have been paid over the deferral period on shares that vest.
This payment may be in the form of additional shares or a cash payment equal to the value of those additional shares and may assume the reinvestment of dividends into shares on such basis as the Committee determines.
com Cobham plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purpose and Maximum Current performance Element link to strategy Operation potential value measures Long Term Incentivise sustainable Awards are to be made under the rules of the LTIP which Conditional share awards or Performance is profitable growth and shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2017 AGM.
nil-cost options over shares with assessed over more Incentive sector out performance a value of up to 200% of base than one financial Plan LTIP aligned with the Groups Awards will be made on an annual basis and will vest, salary may be granted in respect year, usually at least strategic plan.
subject to performance, after a period of at least three of any financial year.
Following vesting, shares will be subject to a holding key financial Reward share price period of up to two years although the Committee may Where an award is structured as and or strategic and dividend growth, permit the sale of shares to fund the payment of tax a Qualifying LTIP award, the shares metrics aligned providing alignment with liabilities due on the vesting or exercise of the award.
subject to the HMRC tax qualifying to the Groups shareholders interests option are not taken into account strategic plan.
The Committee may adjust the level of vesting, either up for the purposes of these limits, or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered reflecting the scale back referred The threshold level Supports retention not to reflect underlying business performance.
to in the Operation column.
of vesting may be and promotes share up to 16.7% of the ownership.
The Committee may make a dividend equivalent maximum award.
payment to reflect dividends that would have been paid over the vesting period and holding period on shares that vest.
The Committee has the discretion to structure awards as Qualifying LTIP Awards comprising both an HMRC tax qualifying option and an ordinary LTIP award, with the vesting of the ordinary LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on the exercise of the tax qualifying option.
Upon a change of control or other relevant event awards will vest to the extent determined in accordance with the rules of the LTIP, which take into account performance over the period to early vesting and other factors which the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, considers relevant and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed at the date of the relevant event.
Malus and Clawback provisions are in place which enable the Committee to reduce awards or require repayment of them for up to two years after vesting in appropriate circumstances which include but are not limited to : a material misstatement of the Companys financial results which results in the award being granted or vesting to a greater extent than would otherwise have been the case: the assessment of the performance condition being based on an error or on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions which result in the award being granted or vesting to a greater extent than would otherwise have been the case: and gross misconduct on the part of the Executive Director.
Incentivise sustainable Awards are made under the rules of the ESOS, which Annual awards may be made Performance would Executive profitable growth and were approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
with an aggregate market value be assessed over Share Option sector out-performance of 200% of salary.
more than one Scheme aligned with the Groups Awards under the ESOS are not currently made to financial year, usually ESOS strategic plan.
No awards will be made in any year at least three years in which an Executive Director receives an award under against key financial Reward share price the LTIP.
metrics aligned and dividend growth, to the Groups providing alignment with The Committee may adjust the level of vesting, either up strategic plan.
or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered not to reflect underlying business performance.
Supports retention and promotes share Options can become exercisable on a change of control ownership.
of the Company, or with the consent of the acquiring company, a grant of equivalent rights may be made.
All employee Provides all employees, The Company operates a SAYE scheme and a SIP scheme Maximum limits are set in line None including Executive which are both HMRC qualifying arrangements.
with the limits in the applicable share Directors, the opportunity tax legislation.
schemes to voluntarily invest in Company shares.
com Cobham plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11% Directors Remuneration Report continued Notes to the Policy Table Application of remuneration policy The best way to demonstrate how our policy works is to provide examples Policy for the remuneration of employees generally of pay-outs under different scenarios.
The Company values its wider workforce and aims to provide a remuneration package that is based on a mixture of Group and personal performance.
As The charts below illustrate the application of the remuneration policy set out in the Group is worldwide and operates in different countries, employees are the policy table for each Executive Director for 2017 under different scenarios: appropriately remunerated taking account of the market in the employees jurisdiction of employment.
The following key principles of the Remuneration Policy outlined above are applied consistently across the employee population: CEO David Lockwood To offer a level of remuneration that is appropriate to attract, retain, motivate 3.32m Salary, pension and benefits and reward employees to deliver the Groups strategic plan without paying Annual bonus more than is necessary: and 42% Long-term incentives To seek to remunerate fairly, competitively and consistently for each role 1.65m Share options and with due regards to the market place, internal consistency and the Groups 14% performance shares ability to pay.
31% 31% 0.9m When determining remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, 27% 55% 100% the Committee takes into consideration, as a matter of course, the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group.
In particular, the Committee Maximum On-target Minimum paid specific attention to the level of salary increases and the size of the annual bonus pool in the wider population, with particular reference to the year on CFO David Mellors year change to these figures.
No consultation with employees takes place in Salary, pension and benefits 2.21m relation to determining the Directors Remuneration Policy but employees Annual bonus views are fed back through the Executive Vice President HR who attends the 36% Long-term incentives Remuneration Committee meetings.
1.17m Share options and performance shares Performance measures and targets setting 36% The annual bonus is assessed against both financial and individual targets 33% 0.65m determined by the Committee.
This incentivises executives to focus on delivering 28% 56% 100% the key financial goals of the Company as well as specific strategic objectives for each Director which are aligned to delivering the Groups strategic plan and Maximum On-target Minimum ensuring executives exhibit the right behaviours.
Targets are set on an annual basis taking into account the budget forecast, external consensus and at a level Assumptions which the Committee considers to be stretching.
Long term performance measures under the LTIP are chosen by the Committee Maximum Total fixed pay as minimum below, plus: to be aligned with the long term strategy of the business.
They are selected performance Assumes 100% pay out under the AIP 150% of base to be aligned with the interests of shareholders and incentivise the delivery of Maximum salary Assumes 100% pay out under the LTIP 200% strong, sustainable, financial performance.
Targets are set at the time of grant of salary for David Lockwood and 150% of base taking into account internal and external forecasts and the market environment.
Where TSR is selected as a performance measure, no awards will vest for below median performance.
On-target Total fixed pay as minimum below, plus: performance Assumes 50% of maximum pay out under the Performance conditions may be amended or substituted by the Committee Target AIP Assumes 16.7% pay out under the LTIP if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended aligned with threshold performance.
or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not Below threshold Fixed elements of remuneration only base salary, materially less difficult to satisfy.
performance benefits and pension only base salaries for the Minimum Executive Directors are salaries upon appointment.
Shareholding guidelines Pension allowances are 25% of salary for the David Ownership guidelines require the CEO to acquire and retain ordinary shares Lockwood and 20% of salary for David Mellors.
with a value of two times salary and the CFO to acquire and retain ordinary shares with a value of one times salary.
Shares subject to vested LTIP awards Benefits have been based on assumed expenses which have satisfied the performance condition and are subject to a holding of 40k for the CEO and 25k for the CFO.
period count towards this limit on a net of assumed tax basis.
Operation of share plans Note: As required by the regulations, the scenarios do not include any share price growth The Committee retains discretion to operate the Companys share plans assumptions or take into account any dividends that may be paid.
in accordance with their rules, including the ability to adjust awards in the event of variations of capital or other relevant event, to settle share awards in cash and to vest awards under the LTIP early in the event of an overseas transfer of the Executive Director as a result of which the Director will either become subject to tax in the country to which he or she is transferred and suffer a tax disadvantage on vesting or exercise following transfer, or will become subject to restrictions on acquiring shares on vesting or exercise or dealing with any such shares as a result of local laws.
com Cobham plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Policy table for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors To secure an appointment the Remuneration Committee may need to make awards to buy out an external candidates remuneration arrangements which are forfeited as a result of leaving their previous employer.
In doing so, the Component Approach of the Company Committee will take into account all relevant factors which may include the Chairman fees The Remuneration Committee and the Senior form and time horizon of awards, any performance conditions attaching to Independent Director determine the fee of the the awards and the likelihood of awards vesting.
The Committee will typically Chairman and set the fee at a level which reflect the seek to buy-out awards on a comparable basis to those which have been skills, knowledge and experience of the individual, forfeited with the intention that the value awarded would be no higher than whilst taking into account appropriate market data.
the expected value of the forfeited arrangements: The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to The fee is set as a fixed annual fee and may be paid a new Executive Director on appointment excluding any buy out of wholly or partly in cash or Company shares.
forfeited awards discussed above will be 350% of salary: and Non-executive The Executive Directors Committee determines the For any internal candidates, remuneration commitments made prior to the Director fees fees of the Non-executives.
Fees are set taking into appointment as Director may continue to be honoured, notwithstanding account the size and complexity of the business and compliance with the Remuneration Policy set out above.
the expected time commitment and contribution for the role.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share plans, if necessary, and subject to the limits Fees are structured as a basic fee with additional referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside these plans as fees payable for membership and or chairmanship currently permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards of a committee or other additional responsibilities.
to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
The fees are set as a fixed annual fee and may be The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-executive Director would paid wholly or partly in cash or Company shares.
be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-executive Directors.
Benefits An additional allowance may be provided in respect Service contracts and payment for loss of office of additional travelling time required to attend The Boards policy for current and new Executive Directors is that service Board meetings for those Directors who are based contracts have a notice period that should not exceed one year.
In appropriate circumstances, the Chairman and Non-executive Directors may Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment for the Company also be eligible to receive further benefits such whereby their appointment may be terminated by a maximum of one as travel costs which may include any tax liability months written notice.
associated with any such benefit.
The current Executive Directors service contracts are terminable on 12 months Approach to remuneration on recruitment notice by either party and can be terminated for cause which is defined in When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director, the contract.
The Company may elect to terminate Executive Directors the Committee will apply the following principles: service contracts by making payments in lieu of notice which will not exceed 12 months salary and benefits which can also include, but not limited The package will be market competitive to attract and retain individuals to pension, outplacement and legal fees.
The Company recognises and of the calibre required to lead the business and deliver strategic goals.
endorses the obligation of departing Directors to mitigate their own losses.
Typically, the remuneration package will be aligned with the Companys Remuneration Policy set out above.
The Remuneration Committee has Any payment in respect of the AIP for the year of termination will be at the the discretion to include other elements which are not included in the discretion of the Committee, taking into account the circumstances of the Remuneration Policy should business needs require.
Any payment will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the is subject to the following principles and limitations: financial year worked and subject to performance achieved.
Payments will Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience ordinarily be made at the usual time although the Committee retains discretion of the Executive Director being appointed.
This may include agreement to make payments early in appropriate circumstances.
The Committee retains on future increases up to a market competitive rate, in line with increased discretion to pay the whole of any AIP award for the year of departure and or responsibilities and experience and subject to good performance, where the previous year in cash.
it is considered appropriate: Retirement benefits will be provided in line with the policy set out above.
The treatment of unvested shares under the PSP and ESOS and of AIP awards The variable remuneration that may be awarded will be subject to the deferred into shares will be as set out in the relevant plan rules.
The table limit set out below: below provides details of the treatment that would apply under the plan rules The discretion will not be used to make non-performance related depending on the reason for cessation of employment.
To the extent that incentive payments for example, a golden hello : and an award does not vest in accordance with these terms the award will lapse.
Any movement from the policy outlined in the table above would only be considered where there is a commercial rationale for doing so, which will be disclosed in the following annual remuneration report.
com Cobham plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued On cessation of employment for any reason during the holding period applying Plan Reasons for leaving Treatment to shares acquired under the LTIP, the originally stipulated holding period will apply unless the Committee decides to end the holding period early.
LTIP Good Leaver provisions Awards will usually vest at the death, ill health, ordinary time, although the Where a buy out award is made under the Listing Rules then the leaver provisions injury or disability Committee retains discretion would be determined at the time of the award.
to vest awards at the date of cessation in appropriate The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection circumstances.
In any case, the with a Directors cessation of office or employment where such payments are extent to which the award is made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of vested will be determined by damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement of any claim reference to the extent to which arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
the performance conditions Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for have been satisfied as assessed outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice by the Committee in the case fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
of vesting before the end of the performance period and, unless In doing so, the Committee will recognise and balance the interests of the Committee determines shareholders and the departing Executive Director, as well as the interests of otherwise, the proportion of the remaining Directors.
Where awards which are permitted to vest are subject the vesting period that has to performance conditions, these would only be assessed at the end of the elapsed at the date of cessation relevant period s. of employment.
Voluntary resignation Award will lapse unless the For Non-executive Directors, discretion is retained to terminate with, or any other reason.
Committee determines to treat without, due notice or paying any payment in lieu of notice dependent the participant as a good leaver on what is considered to be in the best interests of the Company in the as referred to above.
ESOS Good Leaver provisions Award will become exercisable death, ill health, injury at the time and to the extent Statement of consideration of shareholder views or disability, redundancy determined by the Committee The Committee is committed to regular and transparent communication with or retirement.
after taking into account the shareholders.
We believe this ensures we understand shareholders views on our extent to which the performance arrangements and are able to take their comments into consideration when target to which it is subject has reviewing our Remuneration Policy.
been met and the extent that the relevant period has elapsed at the Major shareholders and representative bodies were consulted in respect of our date of cessation of employment.
proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy that shareholders are being asked Awards are exercisable within six to approve at the AGM in April 2017 and provided positive feedback on the months of date of cessation of proposed changes, we have added to our intended disclosures to take account employment, with the exception of this feedback.
of death where this period is 12 months.
Payments in relation to existing remuneration arrangements Voluntary resignation Award will lapse unless the The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or any other reason.
Committee determines to payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it preserve and vest all or part of the in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line award on any terms it thinks fit.
with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: AIP Good Leaver provisions Awards will usually vest at the before the AGM held on 24th April 2014 the date the Companys first deferred death, ill health, injury ordinary time, although the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : share or disability, redundancy Committee retains discretion after the AGM held on 24th April 2014 and before the policy set out above awards or retirement.
to vest awards at the date came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent of cessation in appropriate with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at circumstances.
Unless the the time they were agreed: or Committee determines otherwise, at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company the extent to which the award and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration vests will be determined taking for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
into account proportion of the deferral period that has For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards elapsed at the date of cessation of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of employment.
of the payment are agreed no later than at the time the award is granted.
Voluntary resignation Award will lapse unless the any other reason.
Committee determines to treat the participant as a good leaver as referred to above.
com Cobham plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The annual report on remuneration David Lockwood joined the Company on 12 December 2016 and joined the Board and took up the role of CEO on 14 December 2016.
His base salary was Bob Murphy stepped down as CEO and ceased to be an Executive Director with set at 690,000 and this will not be increased at the 1 March 2017 pay review.
He ceased employment with the Company on 31 January 2017.
His successor, David Lockwood, joined on 12 December 2016, Taxable benefits taking up the role of CEO as Bob stepped down.
The taxable benefit figures are as follows: Simon Nicholls stepped down as CFO and ceased to be an Executive Director Bob Simon David on 31 December 2016 and remained in the Companys employment until the Murphy Nicholls Lockwood end of his notice period on 17 January 2017, in order to facilitate an orderly Benefit k k k handover to his successor, David Mellors, who joined on 1 January 2017.
Car and private petrol allowance 19 17 1 Private medical insurance, disability cover and life insurance 16 2 Single total figure table 1 Expatriation allowance 147 Salary Taxable Allowance to cover financial tax advice 1 k and fees benefits AIP LTI Pensions Total 2 Outplacement and legal fees 69 3 Bob Murphy Travel expenses 22 9 1 Relocation 200 2016 871 404 243 1,518 Total 404 20 10 2015 756 210 209 189 1,364 Notes: 1 Simon Nicholls Bob Murphys employment terms and conditions allow for annual expatriation allowance and for the reasonable costs of repatriation of him and his family back to the US at the end of his 2016 440 89 57 88 674 employment with the Company.
2 Outplacement services and legal support in line with the terms of the Remuneration Policy.
1 2015 435 21 58 73 87 674 3 Travel expenses paid for Mr Lockwoods spouse accompanying him on a business trip as part of his induction prior to joining the Company.
David Lockwood 2016 40 10 10 60 Annual Incentive Plan 1 Account taken for the deferred portion not paid.
2014 Approved Policy: Single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director audited information Cash bonus Maximum opportunity under the Policy is 150% of salary.
For target performance, 50% of maximum bonus Salary and fees k opportunity will be received.
Taxable benefits AIP Measured over a one year performance period based 2000 LTI on a combination of financial and individual metrics.
Pensions 1,518 1500 1,364 Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
Deferred 75% paid in cash and up to 25% mandatorily deferred into 1000 bonus company shares for a period of three years.
674 674 500 Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
60 0 As profit and cash were considered to be the key financial metrics of the 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 business for 2016, the AIP measures were based on Operating Profit and Bob Murphy Simon Nicholls David Lockwood Operating Cash Flow adjusted for business restructuring costs with each measure equally weighted and representing 80% of the value that could be Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of earned by participants in the Plan.
The remaining 20% were tied to achieving remuneration audited information personal strategic objectives aligned with relevant business imperatives.
The Company has obtained written confirmation from each Director that they have disclosed all other items in the nature of remuneration.
Measure Definition Salary and fees Group Underlying Underlying Operating Profit before interest 2014 Approved Policy: Reviewed annually with changes typically effective Operating Profit & tax at the Group level, as adjusted by costs from 1 March.
Maximum salary increases typically in line with the outcomes as adjusted incurred in respect of business restructuring projects of the annual review and typically in line with the average increase for the for business that are typically declared after operating profit wider workforce.
restructuring costs for internal reporting purposes.
Limits will be set in absolute terms.
Bob Murphys employment terms and conditions were based on US law and his Group Underlying Cash generation from operations after operating salary payments were made in US dollars and have been converted to sterling Operating Cash cash movements in working capital and cash for tax purposes.
These are the figures used in the above table.
Bobs 2016 salary, Flow as adjusted flows from the purchase disposal of property, plant effective from 1 March 2016, was increased by 2.5% to US$1,187,534.
The salary for cash flows & equipment and intangible assets at the Group increase awarded in 2016 was in line with the average increase provided to the related to business level as adjusted by cash flows related to business wider workforce.
restructuring restructuring projects and IT security remediation projects that are typically declared after operating cash flow Simon Nicholls 2016 salary was 440,000 per annum.
No increase to Simons for internal reporting purposes.
Limits will be set in salary was awarded during the year as he was under notice on the review date absolute terms.
com Cobham plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued As outlined in the table below, the threshold financial targets were not met.
TSR Peer Group The Committee also considered that it was not appropriate for any bonus to The companies in the TSR comparator group for awards granted in 2014 were: be paid in respect of the personal strategic objectives for the two out-going Executive Directors.
As such, no bonus payments were made to the Executive BAE Systems L-3 Communications Smiths Group Directors in respect of 2016.
Esterline Meggitt Teledyne Technologies Finnmeccanica Northrop Grumman Thales Details of the AIP measures, weightings and targets as well as performance FLIR Systems QinetiQ Ultra Electronics against each of the targets is provided in the table below: Harris Raytheon ITT Industries Rockwell Collins Full Year Targets Actual Performance There has been no change in the composition of the TSR Peer Group Threshold Target Maximum Measure during the year.
Pay-out 25% 50% 100% Nil Buy-out awards vesting in 2016 % Maximum Simon Nicholls long term incentives figure covers the vesting of one award made Operating 264.69 296.14 319.73 186.50 to him as a buy-out award to compensate for forfeited equity from his previous Profit m employer, Senior plc, as a result of leaving to join Cobham.
This award, which was disclosed in full in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, is set out below: Operating 231.68 246.20 275.25 126.70 Cash Flow m Awards Date of Valuation pence per Amount vesting vest share vested k In order to f urther incentivise focus on performance during the first half of the year half-year targets were also set for which a proportion of the bonus could be earned 34,755 8 August 2016 163.0 57 subject to threshold performance being achieved at the full-year.
However, these targets were also not met.
The buy-out shares above have been valued at market price achieved on the Long term incentives date of vesting.
Vesting was based on time only, there were no performance conditions attaching to this award.
2014 Approved Policy: PSP allows for conditional share awards or nil-cost After settlement of statutory deductions, the resulting shares of 18,198 shares options up to 150% of base salary may be granted annually.
were retained against Mr Nicholls share ownership guidelines.
Threshold level of vesting is 16.7% of maximum award.
The original buy-out award of 29,535, which was due to vest on 1 May 2016, was increased to 34,755 by virtue of the terms of the 2016 rights issue and Performance assessed over more than one year, usually three years, against vested on 8 August 2016, when the Company came out of the closed period key financial metrics.
related to the rights issue and announcement of the interim results.
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
The PSP is designed to drive sustainable profitable growth in shareholder value and align Executive Directors with shareholders interests.
PSP awards vesting in 2016 The performance targets for the PSP awarded in 2014 are set out below: Award vesting at Weighting % Performance that level % Result Metric Threshold 16.7 Performance TSR 33.3 Index targets for the TSR have not Maximum 100 been met Index 10% Threshold 3% 16.7 Performance EPS 33.3 per annum targets for the EPS have not Maximum 10% 100 been met per annum Cash Threshold 90% 16.7 Performance Conversion 33.3 per annum targets for cash conversion Maximum Over 100 have not or above 100% been met per annum EPS and cash conversion are defined in the definitions on page 144.
The performance targets for the PSP were not met for the three performance years ended on 31 December 2016 therefore none of the awards made in 2014 will result in any payout and will lapse.
com Cobham plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Long term incentives awarded during the financial year audited information The following table sets out the awards made under the LTI plans to Executive Directors during the year.
Basis of which Face value of award Type of award award is made Date of award No.
of shares awarded Performance period Bob Murphy PSP 150% of base salary 10 March 2016 1,254,435 1 January 2016 to 658,032 31 December 2018 Notes: 1 The award has been made in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
2 The f ace value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the mid-market price of those shares for the three trading days immediately preceding the date of the award.
3 The original PSP award of 559,192 was increased to 658,032 by virtue of the terms of the 2016 rights issue.
Performance conditions for the PSP awarded in 2016 are set out in Non-executive Directors audited information the table below: The 2016 remuneration and current fees of the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are stated below: Award vesting at Metric Weighting % Performance that level % Total payable TSR 33.3 Threshold Index 16.7 k 2016 2015 Maximum Index 10% 100 John Devaney Chairman 278 270 EPS 33.3 Threshold 3% per annum 16.7 Michael Wareing 68 69 Maximum 10% per annum 100 Jonathan Flint 58 58 Cash conversion 33.3 Threshold over 90% per annum 16.7 Michael Hagee 66 65 Maximum 100% per annum 100 Birgit Nrgaard 58 58 Notes: 1 Mark Ronald 22 62 1 EPS and Cash Conversion are defined in the definitions on page 144.
Alison Wood 65 65 2 The TSR Peer Group remains unchanged for the 2014 awards, see page 72.
2 Alan Semple 70 58 Total 685 705 Pensions Notes: 1 Mark Ronald stood down from the Board following the 2016 AGM.
2014 Approved Policy: The Company may make a payment into a pension 2 Alan Semple joined the Board in February 2015. scheme e. g. a defined contribution plan and or make a cash allowance 3 Non-executiv e Directors only receive fees under their service agreement payment set as a percentage of salary.
and do not have any other taxable benefits, annual or long term incentives or pension arrangements provided by the Company.
Messrs Hagee, Ronald The Company contributed to Bob Murphys retirement plan at the rate of and Semple received a taxable benefit in kind for financial services tax advice 20% of his base salary.
This comprises participation in two plans noted below for the amounts of 650, 1,100 and 850 respectively.
and the contributions to each are shown in the table: 4 Non-executiv e Directors do not have a permanent place of work specified in A qualified 401k plan which has limits on the level of contribution which their service contract, all reasonable and properly incurred expenses incurred can be made to it: and in performance of duties as Board members are reimbursed by the Company.
An executive retirement plan, non-qualifying.
5 All of the abov e Directors are members of the Nomination Committee but do not receive any additional fees for this role.
k 2016 2015 1 Contributions to 401k plan 11 7 The out-going Chairmans fee was increased to 280,000 with effect from Contributions to executive retirement plan 232 182 1 April 2016, this represented a 10,000 per annum, or 3.7%, increase in recognition of this being his first increase since appointment in 2010, Total 243 189 and recognising the performance of the Group over the last six years.
Note: 1 Due to a spreadsheet error, last y ears contributions were reported at 16,000 Non-executive Directors are paid a fee of 2,500 per annum for each Committee for Mr Murphys contribution to the executive retirement plan when it should they sit on, 5,000 fee for Directors travelling from overseas locations, A 10,000 have been 7,000, the figure reported in the table above is correct.
per annum fee is paid to the Chair of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Simon Nicholls pension figure is a combined amount of 10,000 to an executive defined contribution plan capped due to the annual allowance and 78,000 Total aggregate Directors fees for the year, including the Executive Director paid as a cash allowance in lieu of additional defined contribution arrangements.
fees as per the single figure table on page 71, amount to 2,659,000 2015: Together these payments represent a rate of 20% of his 2,752,000. base salary.
David Lockwoods pension contributions are paid as a cash in lieu amount, which equates to 25% of his base salary.
The amount paid in December 2016, pro rated due to his joining on 12 December 2016, was 9,914. www.
com Cobham plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Shares held by Executive Directors as at 31 December 2016 against audited information share ownership The interests of the Non-executive Directors and their families in ordinary Bob Murphy shares were: 2016 31.12.16 1.1.
16 45% John Devaney 45,000 30,000 2015 54% Michael Wareing 30,000 20,000 Jonathan Flint 7,500 5,000 Simon Nicholls Michael Hagee 7,500 5,000 2016 Birgit Nrgaard 7,500 5,000 25% Shares held outright Mark Ronald N A 5,000 2015 Beneficially held shares 22% Alison Wood 7,500 5,000 Target share ownership Alan Semple 7,500 5,000 05 25 01 75 100 125 50 175 200 Shares owned as percentage of Base Salary Non-executive Directors are required, within six months of election to the Board, to acquire and hold a shareholding of 5,000 ordinary shares.
Holding for 2016 reduced as a percentage of salary due to salary and share price All Non-executive Directors took up their rights under the Companys rights movement, the rights issue adjustment and no awards vesting during the year.
Interests at 2 March 2017 are no longer relevant as both Directors have left the Executive Directors share interests Groups employment and all outstanding LTI awards lapsed.
The interests of the Executive Directors in share awards or share options at 31 December 2016 are shown below, since that date all of these outstanding The market price of the ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016 was unvested share awards have lapsed due to the Directors departure from the 163.7 pence per share and the closing price range during the year was Group, except for Bob Murphys BCP 2014, which was released on his departure, 239.7 pence to 127.5 pence, all prices adjusted to account for the rights however, no match was granted: issue adjustment.
Dilution Share awards Share awards Unvested The Companys share schemes are currently funded through shares purchased in subject to subject to options subject the market and have been since November 2010, prior to which they were funded performance continued to performance through new issue shares.
Funding of awards through new issue shares is subject Award conditions employment awards to an overall dilution limit of 10% of issued share capital in any ten-year period.
Bob Murphy PSP 2014 376,458 Of this, 5% may be used in connection with the Companys discretionary share BCP 2014 14,546 schemes.
As of 31 December 2016, 5.1m 0.30% and 4.2m 0.25% shares have PSP 2015 430,427 been issued pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in connection with PSP 2016 658,032 all share schemes and discretionary schemes respectively.
Awards that are made, Deferred AIP 18,483 but then lapse or are forfeit, are excluded from the calculations.
Total 1,479,463 18,483 Payments to past Directors and payment for loss of office Simon Nicholls PSP 2014 237,557 audited information Deferred AIP 4,497 There were no payments made to past Directors or for loss of office during 2014 the year.
PSP 2015 245,180 Total 4,497 482,737 Share ownership requirements There is a requirement to retain a percentage of salary in shares, which must be built up from shares vesting from LTI plans.
Ownership guidelines require the Executive Directors to maintain ordinary shares.
These guidelines state that the CEO retain the value of at least two years salary, and the CFO retain the value of at least one years salary.
In addition, the CEO and CFO are to retain a minimum of 50% of net vested PSP and BCP matching shares until the relevant shareholding level is met.
There is no time frame over which the guidelines are required to be met and there is no requirement for Directors to hold these shares after leaving the Company.
Both out-going Directors have retained the required shares resulting from LTI vests during the year and have complied with the guidelines in this respect.
com Cobham plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Historic CEO total remuneration Percentage change in remuneration of CEO The table below shows historic CEO total remuneration, calculated on the same The following table shows the year-on-year change in respect of the three basis as that used in the single figure table on page 71. remuneration elements shown in table for the Bob Murphy, CEO until 14 December 2016, as compared to that of UK employees generally: Long term incentive Remuneration element CEO Average employee per capita figure Annual bonus vesting rates Salary 2.5% 2.5% payout against against CEO Single figure of maximum maximum Benefits 92.0% 5.52% total remuneration opportunity % opportunity % AIP 0% 4.03% Year CEO k k k 2016 CEO4 60 0 Nil N A The UK payroll has been chosen for comparison as this is the location of the David Lockwood head office.
2016 CEO3 1,518 0 Nil N A Bob Murphy Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 CEO3 1,364 18.4 209 N A The chart below displays the relative expenditure of the Company on various Bob Murphy matters, as required in the case of Group employees pay and shareholder distributions by the relevant remuneration regulations: 2014 CEO3 1,196 0.0 Nil N A Bob Murphy m 2013 CEO3 2,058 34.3 280 N A 800 Bob Murphy 698 682.2 700 2012 CEO3 753 48.5 182 N A Bob Murphy 600 CEO2 1,283 45.0 267 58.0 202 500 Andy Stevens 400 2011 CEO2 1,916 92.5 555 85.0 546 300 Andy Stevens 220.1 200 135.5 138.0 126.1 2010 CEO2 1,478 33.5 201 87.0 471 130.2 122.1 100 Andy Stevens 0 2009 CEO1 1,496 93.0 567 100.0 238 2015 2016 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Allan Cook Aggregate Underlying DividendsPV employment profit after tax costs of Group Performance graph employees The graph below illustrates the TSR performance share price growth plus dividends of Cobham against the FTSE350 Index over the past eight years.
The aggregate employment cost of Group employees is detailed at note 4 to the The graph shows the value of 100 invested over the eight-year period ending Group Financial Statements and includes employers social security and similar 31 December 2016.
The FTSE350 Index was chosen as it is a recognised broad costs.
Group underlying profit after tax is shown above as this is the measure equity market index of which Cobham was a member during 2016 and is used by the Board to monitor financial performance, refer to note 2.
Dividends currently, as at 1 March 2017, ranked at 175th.
PV relates to the amount of profit the Group spends on research and development, refer to note 4.
TSR performance Cobham vs FTSE350 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the current financial year 200 The remuneration arrangements for the in-coming Executive Directors are set 180 out on page 76.
160 140 The Leaving arrangements for the departing CEO and CFO are detailed on 120 page 76.
com Cobham plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Leaving arrangements for the Leaving arrangements for the departing CEO Murphy departing CFO Nicholls Other services There was no annual bonus There was no annual bonus Services provided provided to the payment made for FY2016.
Adviser Appointed by to the Committee Company Any outstanding deferred Any outstanding deferred Deloitte LLP Remuneration Remuneration Tax and shares, BCP matching or PSP shares or PSP awards lapsed Committee in strategy consultancy on awards lapsed on cessation on cessation of employment.
November 2009, the governance, Incentive of employment.
and reappointed risk and assurance He was provided with a design following a tender initiative Upon cessation of employment, payment of 69k in respect of exercise Market data he was entitled to a payment in outplacement services and legal conducted in respect of 12 months annual support in line with the terms 2016.
In accordance with terms of his contract on appointment, The Committee received advice during the year from Deloitte LLP, who comply the Company will reimburse the with the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
The reasonable cost of relocating Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and him and his family from the UK independent.
Deloittes performance was considered by the Committee as part to the US, limited to a maximum of the tender process undertaken in the year.
Total fees for advice provided to of 50% of his salary.
the Committee during the year amounted to 83,463 2015: 98,000 and were provided on a time cost basis.
Additional advice was received from the Executive Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 Vice President HR, Senior Vice President Compensation and Benefits, and the Company Secretary.
Base salary The base salaries of the CEO and CFO were set on appointment at 690,000 and Whilst proposals from the Committee take account of the advice received, the 520,000 respectively and will not be increased as part of the companys annual ultimate decision is made by the Committee and ratified by the Board in the salary review effective 1 March 2017. absence of any advisers.
The salary for the new CEO has been set at c. 11% lower than that received by As Deloitte have been in post as adviser to the Committee since 2009, the the previous CEO.
The salary for the new CFO is higher than received by the Committee conducted a tender process during 2016 to be in place for the previous CFO but the Board believe that David Mellors brings with him a strong 2016 review of the Remuneration Policy.
The process involved the submission proven track record of restructuring at his previous employer and that his skills of a formal quote in response to a request for proposal, with four remuneration and experience will be essential to restoring sustainable performance at Cobham.
consultants, including the incumbent Deloitte, asked to tender for remuneration The overall package Cobham agreed with David Mellors maintained but did and compensation related services.
not increase the expected value of his total remuneration as compared to his compensation at his previous employer.
The four advisers participating in the tender process were required to describe their capability to meet Cobham plcs services requirements, with identified Benefits case studies or specific examples where these services have already been Both the CEO and CFO will receive benefits in line with those provided for under successfully provided.
For the CEO this will include a relocation payment to allow David Lockwood to relocate to Wimborne which the Board felt was Comprehensive written proposals were submitted, which were scored an important change to have the CEO located at the heart of the business and evaluated as part of a comparative weighted assessment covering key operations.
We will be providing further disclosure when costs of the relocation deliverables including value cost as well as the capability, experience and are known.
expertise in understanding and delivering the specific executive remuneration support requirements of the Company.
A final presentation was delivered and Pension evaluated by a panel including the Committee Chair, the Company Secretary, The pension contributions for the CEO and CFO are paid as a cash in lieu amount, the Executive Vice President HR and a senior member of his management which equate to 25% of salary for the CEO and 20% of salary for the CFO, both team.
The panel put forward their proposals to the rest of the Committee who of which are below the 30% maximum set under the Remuneration Policy.
The unanimously agreed to re-appoint Deloitte as their advisers.
In reaching this pension provided to the new CEO is slightly higher than that received by the decision, the Committee was mindful that they should set a higher hurdle for previous CEO but total fixed pay remains lower overall.
the re-appointment of the incumbent advisers than for a new appointment, and believe that this was achieved through the rigorous approach to the tender 2017 AIP process undertaken.
The maximum opportunities for the CEO and CFO will remain unchanged from the previous incumbents at 150% of base salary.
Awards will be subject to the Termination payments for the out-going CEO and CFO performance measures set out in the table below which are aligned to the key The termination payments made to the CEO and CFO were in line with their financial and strategic objectives of the company over the next 12 months: basic entitlements under their employment contracts as outlined in the table below.
No payment will be made in respect of the 2016 annual bonus and Performance measure Weighting % all outstanding incentive awards lapsed on cessation of employment.
Full Group Operating Cash Flow 40 details of the actual payments made will be provided in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Group Revenue 20 Group Operating Profit 20 Individual Key Strategic Measures 20 www.
com Cobham plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2017 PSP awards 2016 voting at the Annual General Meeting PSP awards will be made to the CEO and CFO with a face value of 200% of salary At the AGM held on 28 April 2016, shareholders voted on the Directors and 150% of salary respectively and will be subject to an additional two year Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Below are the holding period following the end of the performance period.
results in respect of that resolution, which required a simple majority i. e. 50% of the votes cast to be in favour in order for the resolution to be passed.
The We plan to make LTIP awards in May 2017 following the completion of any votes for include discretionary votes given to the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee considers that the new CEO and CFO should have an incentive interest in Cobham shares from the earliest opportunity Directors Remuneration Report ensuring that their interests are aligned to shareholders.
Votes for % Votes against % However, to ensure that the performance targets for the 2017 PSP award are 22,843,101 97.37 616,734 2.63 aligned with Cobhams forward looking strategy and aligned shareholders Votes withheld 299,939 interests, the Committee believes that it is important to allow the new Executive Directors time to assess the business and provide their input into the formation of the long term strategic plan under their tenure.
We therefore intend to wait until the outcome of this process before setting targets for the 2017 award, and we will revert to shareholders at this time.
We expect this to be by the time of the interim results announcement in August Buy-out awards for new CEO and CFO As outlined in the Chairmans letter the newly appointed CEO and CFO forfeited a number of outstanding awards at their previous employer as a result of joining Cobham.
The Remuneration Committees approach in providing compensation for these awards was to ensure that the value of any awards made did not exceed the value forfeit and were made on comparable terms.
All buy-out awards will be subject to the Companys standard malus and clawback provisions.
In addition, the Committee may recover up to 100% of the buyout awards in the event the candidate gives notice within 24 months of joining.
CEO In light of recent developments at his previous employer and in demonstration of his commitment to his new role as CEO of Cobham, David Lockwood has agreed that there will be no compensation in respect of his 2016 annual bonus, or his outstanding 2014 and 2015 long-term incentive awards.
As a consequence of joining Cobham, David Lockwood will forfeit the deferred share portion of his 2015 bonus which was due to vest in March 2019 subject only to continued employment.
He will receive a restricted share award over Cobham shares with a face value of circa 66,000 that will vest in March 2019 to compensate for the loss of this award.
The only buy-out award that will be made will be in respect of his 2016 LTIP awards which will be replaced by an award of equivalent value 2x his salary at his previous employer in Cobham shares and will be subject to the achievement of Cobham performance targets, the timing and measures have yet to be determined and will be disclosed in due course.
CFO His bonus for the year ended 31 March 2017 forfeited as a consequence of joining Cobham will be valued based on the actual outcome of the bonus as reported by his previous employer and will be pro-rated for the period David Mellors worked for his former employer.
We agreed an overall cap on this value of 9 12 of his 2016 bonus.
The payment will be received 50% in cash in June 2017 and 50% deferred into Cobham shares to be received half in June 2018 and half in June 2019.
David Mellors will forfeit the 2013, 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards over shares in his previous employer totalling 879,264 shares.
Taking account of performance and where awards are less than half-way through the performance period pro-rating for time reduces the total number of LTIP shares forfeited from 879,294 to circa.
The 127,200 shares forfeited by David Mellors will be replaced with awards over Cobham shares with the same value which will vest on the same time horizons.
com Cobham plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
