DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE The year ahead REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Having increased the basic salaries of the Executive Directors in 2016, the Committee has decided that the basic salary of the CEO and FD will remain unchanged for 2017.
Dear Shareholder, In 2017, PSP awards will be granted to the Executive Directors under On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors the terms of the scheme, as renewed in 2015.
The performance Remuneration report for the financial year ended 2016. conditions will remain unchanged from 2016.
Further details on how our Directors Remuneration Policy will be applied for the 2017 The report is split into three sections: financial year are set out on pages 89 to 90.
This Annual Statement: The Annual Report on Remuneration pages 82 to 90 which Revisions to Remuneration Policy and shareholder engagement includes information concerning the amount paid to the During 2016 the Committee undertook a competitive exercise to Executive and Non-Executive Directors in 2016: and appoint its external advisors.
After meeting with potential suppliers, The Directors Remuneration Policy pages 76 to 81 which will be the Committee selected Deloitte LLP as its external advisors for an subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the Companys AGM initial term of three years, to be reviewed annually.
The Committee in May 2017. also received general advice from the Group HR Director as well as its advisors on the external trends in executive remuneration.
The Committee has remained consistent in its approach that the amount paid to the Executive Directors should be clearly linked to their In the latter part of the year, the Committee sought feedback from performance and the value delivered to shareholders.
Remuneration the Groups major shareholders in respect of executive remuneration for the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance and the planned renewal of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Director FD continues to be heavily weighted towards variable revised Policy incorporates a number of minor revisions based on pay, principally based on the achievement of financial targets.
The the input from its shareholders, external advisors and the Group Committee considers that the remuneration arrangements promote HR Director, notably the introduction of a deferral period for annual the Companys long-term success within a suitable risk framework, bonuses and a two-year holding period for PSPs.
The Committee is of are suitably aligned to shareholder interests and that the actual the view that the proposed Policy set out on pages 76 to 81 promotes remuneration earned by the Executive Directors continues to be a the attraction, motivation and retention of the executives required to fair reflection of their individual and the Groups overall performance.
successfully drive our strategy, and recommends its approval at the The Board also remains committed to retaining a remuneration forthcoming AGM.
framework which is simple, transparent and can be understood by all of the Groups stakeholders.
It has been the role of the Committee to ensure that the performance of the Group is reflected in the remuneration paid out to its Executive The year under review Directors.
We hope that, having read this report, shareholders will be During the reporting period, the geographic mix of profits changed satisfied that we have performed this role appropriately and in line due to both operating performance and to the devaluation of sterling.
The UK business underperformed its targets whereas both Germany and France performed above expectations, in addition to which their I welcome any comments that you may have on the contents of reported figures in sterling benefited from euro strength.
Groups profit performance was below the target set at the beginning of the year, although other financial metrics were satisfactory resulting in a relatively lower level of in-year variable remuneration Philip Yea for the Executive Directors.
The achievement of one-year targets is 2 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee assessed on a constant currency basis and so the devaluation of sterling did not benefit the Executive Directors bonus calculation 13 March 2017 although it cushioned the year for shareholders.
Remuneration outcomes The Committee reviewed performance against the conditions set for the potential bonus opportunity in 2016.
For the reasons set out above, for the financial reporting period, the CEO received 49 per cent and the FD 50 per cent of total potential bonus for the year, subject to clawback until 1 January 2019.
The financial targets for the reporting period will be disclosed in next years Remuneration Report.
Eighty-five per cent of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in March 2014, will vest in March 2017, and will be paid out to the Executive Directors.
The financial conditions for the vesting of these awards relate to the growth in the Companys 1 adjusted earnings per share for the three financial years ended 31 December 2016.
The base year for the awards is consistent with 1 the adjusted EPS used to determine vesting for the 2011 PSP awards, for which the payout was zero.
Further details can be found on pages 83 to 84.
75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED COMPUTACENTERS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT This section is the Groups Remuneration Policy Policy, as reviewed and approved by its Remuneration Committee after consultation with major shareholders.
As required, it complies with Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It is intended that the Policy will be put before shareholders for approval by way of a binding vote at the Companys AGM on 4 May 2017.
If approved by shareholders, the Policy will have effect immediately thereafter.
Prior to that date, the Companys existing remuneration policy will continue to apply.
In implementing the Policy, it should be noted that the Remuneration Committee considers pay and working conditions in the wider group, as is further outlined on page 79.
The Committee has made the following changes to the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM to ensure alignment with current best market practice and shareholder views: the introduction of deferral under the annual bonus: the introduction of a holding period under the PSP: a reduction in the overall maximum bonus opportunity from 200 per cent of salary to 150 per cent of salary: and an increase in the shareholding guideline for the FD from 100 per cent of salary to 200 per cent of salary.
Policy Table Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Supports the recruitment and retention of executives of the calibre required to deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation Base salaries are paid in cash and reflect an individuals responsibilities, performance, skills and experience.
Normally reviewed annually with any changes effective on 1 January, taking into account the level of pay settlements across Computacenter Group, the performance of the business and general market conditions.
Salary levels at other organisations of a similar size, complexity and business orientation will be reviewed for guidance.
A review may not necessarily result in an increase in base salary.
An exceptional review may take place to reflect a change in the scale or scope of a Directors role, for example: a major acquisition.
Salary levels for the current Executive Directors for the 2017 financial year are: Group Chief Executive Officer: 525,000 Group Finance Director: 340,000 Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum base salary or maximum annual increase.
Ordinarily any salary increase will reflect our standard approach to increases for other employees in the Group.
Higher increases may be considered in certain circumstances as required, for example, to reflect: an increase in scope of role or responsibility: performance in role: or an Executive Director being moved to appropriate market positioning over time.
Performance measures Individual and business performance is taken into consideration when deciding salary levels.
Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise the delivery of annual, short-term, stretching financial and non-financial objectives.
To align pay costs to affordability and the value delivered to shareholders.
Operation Performance measures and targets are set at the beginning of each financial year.
Performance is normally assessed over one financial year.
For the bonus paid in respect of 2017 onwards 50 per cent will be paid in cash and 50 per cent will be deferred into Computacenter shares, with half the shares payable after one year and the remaining half after two years.
Deferred awards will include the right to receive dividend equivalents.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply, as set out in the notes to this table.
The Committee has discretion to vary bonus payments downwards or upwards if it considers the outcome would not be a fair and complete reflection of the performance achieved by the Group and or the Executive Director s. To the extent that this discretion is exercised, this will be disclosed in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report and may be the subject of shareholder consultation if deemed appropriate.
76 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Maximum opportunity The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150 per cent of base salary.
In 2017 the maximum bonus opportunity will be 125 per cent of salary for the CEO, Mike Norris and 100 per cent of salary for the FD, Tony Conophy.
Increases above the current opportunities, up to the maximum limit may be made to take account of individual circumstances, which may include an increase in the size or scope of role or responsibility.
Performance measures Financial measures will normally be used to calculate at least a majority of bonus achievement and the remainder of annual bonus will normally be attributed to non-financial measures.
Financial measures may include profitability, cost management, cash management and other appropriate measures.
Non-financial targets will be stretching targets set by the Committee linked to the delivery of our strategy and the Executive Directors personal objectives for the year.
Targets are reviewed and approved annually by the Committee to ensure that they are stretching and adequately reflect the strategic aims of the Group.
The Committee determines the threshold and target payout levels each year taking into account the level of stretch in the targets set.
The level of award which is payable for threshold performance will not normally exceed 40 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
To incentivise the achievement of longer-term profitability and returns to shareholders, and growth of earnings in a stable and sustainable manner.
Operation Awards of nil-cost options or equivalent which are granted on a discretionary basis and will normally vest subject to performance and continued employment at the end of a performance period of at least three years.
PSP shares will normally be subject to a two-year holding period following vesting.
The shares held during the holding period will include the right to receive dividend equivalents.
The Committee reviews the performance criteria, targets and weightings prior to each grant in line with business priorities to ensure they are challenging and fair.
The Committee has discretion to vary the percentage of awards vesting downwards or upwards if it considers that the outcome would otherwise not be a fair and complete reflection of performance over the plan cycle.
Awards are subject to a malus and clawback provision as set out in the notes to this table.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity under the plan is 200 per cent of annual base salary or 400 per cent of annual base salary in exceptional circumstances.
The maximum face value of annual awards granted in 2017 will be 200 per cent of salary for the CEO and 175 per cent of salary for the FD.
For achievement of a threshold performance level which is the minimum level of performance that results in any part of an award vesting, no more than 25 per cent of the award will vest.
Performance measures Earnings per share is currently the primary measure for our Performance Share Plan, but the Committee may exercise its discretion to introduce additional or alternative measures which are aligned to the delivery of the business strategy.
Details of the performance conditions applied to awards granted in the year under review and to be granted in the forthcoming year are set out on pages 83 and 90.
77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Retirement benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide an income for retirement.
Operation No special arrangements are made for Executive Directors who are entitled to become members of the Groups defined contribution pension scheme, which is open to all UK employees or the pension plan relevant to the country where they are employed if different.
If the Executive Director so chooses, he she may take some or all of the pension contribution as a cash alternative, which will be the same percentage of salary as the pension contribution foregone.
Maximum opportunity Pension contributions or allowances will not exceed 15 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy To ensure that the Group is able to attract and retain experienced and skilled Non-Executive Directors.
Operation Fee levels are determined with reference to those paid by other companies of similar size and complexity and taking into account the scope of responsibilities and the amount of time that is expected to be devoted during the year.
No individual is involved in the process of setting his her own remuneration.
Fee levels are normally reviewed every two years and are next due for review in 2018.
They may also be increased on an ongoing or temporary basis to take into account changes in the working of the Board.
The Chairman of the Board receives a fixed fee.
Other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee and additional fees are payable for the Chairmanship of Board Committees and for the additional responsibility of being the Senior Independent Director.
Fees are normally paid in cash.
Travel expenses and hotel costs, including any tax due, are also paid where necessary.
2017 fee levels for the incumbents are as follows: Non-Executive Chairman: 195,000 Non-Executive Director base fee: 50,000 Supplementary fees: Senior Independent Director: 6,000 Audit Committee Chair: 16,000 Remuneration Committee Chair: 10,000 Maximum opportunity Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups incentive arrangements or share schemes and are not eligible for pension or other benefits.
Maximum in line with the Companys Articles of Association.
Performance measures The Chairman of the Board will review individual contributions annually and every three years an independent Board Effectiveness review will be conducted.
Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To strengthen alignment between Executives and shareholders.
Operation Levels are set in relation to annual base salary, and are normally required to be built over a five-year period.
The Committee retains discretion to extend this period on an individual basis, if it believes that it is fair and reasonable to do so.
Options which have vested unconditionally, but are as yet unexercised, will be included on a net basis, for the purposes of calculating shareholdings, as will shares held by an Executives spouse or dependants.
The Committee will regularly review the minimum shareholding guidelines.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum, but minimum levels have been set at 200 per cent of base salary for both the current CEO and FD.
Non-Executive Directors are not required to hold shares in the Company.
Executive Directors who have not yet met their shareholding requirement will be expected to retain at least 50 per cent of any PSP awards which vest net of tax until such time as this level of holding is met.
Performance measures N A 78 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Malus and clawback In line with local country practices, all employees are encouraged to Malus and clawback provisions apply to the annual bonus and contribute appropriate savings toward their retirement.
In the UK, the performance share plan as follows: Company operates pension arrangements within the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010.
Annual bonus Malus and or clawback may apply for two years in the event of a Whilst the Company does not feel it appropriate to consult directly material misstatement of the Groups accounts for the relevant with employees when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy, bonus year or in cases of gross misconduct.
the Committee has considered any feedback received via employee engagement surveys and from the regular meeting the CEO and Group Performance Share Plan HR Director conduct with staff representative bodies in each of our Malus may apply prior to vesting in the event of: major geographies.
a material misstatement of results: or poor risk management resulting in a material reduction in profit: or Statement of consideration of shareholders views some other substantial reason that the Committee deems The Remuneration Committee takes very seriously the view of appropriate.
shareholders when making any changes to executive remuneration Clawback may apply at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of grant arrangements.
It continues to welcome shareholders views on in the event of: executive remuneration.
an overpayment to the participant: or if the participant leaves in circumstances which, had all the facts The Group consulted with its major shareholders during the second been known, would have resulted in the award lapsing.
half of the year on the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Explanation of performance measures Approach to recruitment remuneration The performance measures in respect of variable remuneration When hiring a new Executive Director or promoting to the Board from outlined within the Policy are based on a combination of financial and within the Group, the Committee will offer a package that is sufficient strategic measures, with an emphasis on the financial performance to attract, retain and motivate the right talent, whilst at all times of the Group, and therefore to the value that the business delivers to aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
Each component will be its shareholders.
The Company is committed to long-term earnings subject to the limits as specified in the Policy table above.
per share growth through increased profitability and prudent use of cash generation with a services-led strategy.
This commitment In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee is reflected in the measures used to motivate and incentivise our will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not management team through the annual bonus and PSP.
limited to the candidates location, skills and experience, external market influences and internal pay relativities.
The Committee reviews potential performance criteria and targets for the annual bonus and PSP annually, resulting in the performance Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract the criteria structure outlined in the Policy, and the measures for 2017 most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at below market as outlined on pages 89 to 90. level on the basis that it may progress towards the market level once expertise and performance has been proven and sustained.
Remuneration arrangements across the Group When setting executive remuneration, consideration is given to pay In order to facilitate recruitment, the Committee may offer additional policies and employment conditions of employees of the Company and cash and or share-based elements in respect of any incentive or elsewhere in the Group.
deferred pay awards forfeited by an Executive Director as a result of terminating prior employment to join the Company, including by The remuneration of employees across the Group is based on three utilising Listing Rule 9.4.
The Committee would seek fundamental principles.
Firstly, that it allows the Group to retain to ensure, where possible, that these awards would be consistent the level of talent necessary to implement the strategy as set by with awards forfeited in terms of form of award, time horizons, the CEO and Board.
Additionally, that levels of remuneration should value and performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director be sufficient to achieve this aim, but should never be higher than appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior is necessary to do so.
Finally, with limited exceptions, the more role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any significant the ability of an employee to influence the Companys other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment financial results through their individual performance, the higher may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee the proportion of their remuneration should be performance-based.
may agree that certain incidental expenses as appropriate will be met.
The level and design of variable pay takes into account the need to Where a newly appointed Executive Director is required to relocate, avoid incentivising the Groups employees to act in a manner that the Group may pay the costs of relocation including housing, travel, is inconsistent with the Groups risk appetite, as set by the Board.
taxation advice, shipping costs and education for dependents.
Additionally, any Executive Director based outside of the UK will be Consistent with the policy for Executive Directors, where annual eligible to participate in insurance and other benefits in line with bonuses are in place across the Group, they are linked to business local practice.
performance with a focus on underlying Group, divisional profit and other relevant metrics.
Any awards made on recruitment will be subject to such clawback and malus provisions that the Remuneration Committee deems to Whilst only Executive Directors and senior executives participate be appropriate.
in the PSP, other full time employees in the UK can participate in the Companys all employee SAYE scheme which is designed to incentivise Service contracts participants to build a shareholding in the Company, thus aligning The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are their interests with those of the Groups shareholders.
This plan is available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of not subject to performance conditions, but requires the employee business and will also be available at our AGM to be held on 4 May 2017. to remain employed at the end of the term of the scheme which they have joined.
79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Directors PSP awards which are subject only to the holding period following The current Executive Directors each have a service contract with the vesting will lapse in the event of cessation of employment for cause Company which provides for a notice period of up to 12 months from e. g. gross misconduct or negligence.
It is intended that this policy would also apply to new appointments of Executive Directors.
In the event of the death of an Executive Director, awards vest at cessation with no performance assessment.
In such circumstances, With the consent of the Board, where an appointment can enhance unless the Committee determines otherwise, awards will be an individual Executive Directors experience and add value to the reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance Company, Executive Directors are able to accept non-executive period actually served.
Retention of any fees received by the Executive Director is at the discretion of the Committee.
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of Computacenter which is not part of an internal reorganisation of the Group, awards may Non-Executive Directors also vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into Non-Executive Directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of account the period that has elapsed since the awards were granted, appointment for an initial period of three years which may be subject and the performance achieved by the Executive Director against to renewal thereafter.
Appointments may be terminated by either the any applicable performance targets.
Early vesting may also be Company or the Non-Executive Director giving three months notice.
permitted in the event of a demerger or other transaction which in Save in respect of retirement by rotation, a Non-Executive Director the Committees opinion would affect the value of awards.
Where being removed from office may receive an amount equal to the fee the Executive Director participates in one or more of the Companys during any remaining notice period.
all-employee share schemes, awards may vest upon termination in accordance with applicable scheme rules.
Loss of office payments We are committed to ensuring a consistent approach so that we do As is consistent with market practice, we may pay a contribution not pay more than is necessary in circumstances leading to loss of towards an Executive Directors legal fees for entering into a statutory office.
In the event of an early termination of a contract, the policy is agreement and may pay a contribution towards fees for outplacement to seek to minimise any liability.
If an Executive Directors employment services or repatriation as part of a negotiated settlement.
is terminated, any compensation arrangements will not normally be beyond those set out in their service contract and the rules of the There are no agreements currently in place between the Company and relevant incentive plans.
any of its Directors providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment, other than as disclosed in this report.
When managing such situations the Committee takes a range of factors into account, including contractual obligations, shareholder interests, In any event, the Committee will not sanction rewards for failure and organisational stability and the need to ensure an effective handover.
will seek to mitigate any termination payments where possible.
In the normal course of events, an Executive Director will work Exceptions to the Policy their contractual notice period and receive usual salary payments The Policy, as set out in this report, comprises the full suite of possible and benefits during this time.
In the event of a termination where components for the remuneration of Directors at Computacenter.
Computacenter requests that the Executive Director ceases work immediately, a payment in lieu of notice may be made that is equal to Notwithstanding the restrictions laid out in the Policy, where the fixed pay, pension entitlements and other benefits.
Payments may be Company has made a commitment to a Director which: made on a phased basis.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may be was in accordance with the then prevailing remuneration policy placed on garden leave for the duration of some or all of their notice at the time that the commitment was made: and or period.
Where an Executive Director leaves during a financial year, was made before the Director became a Director: and or an annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the was made before the rules on binding votes on remuneration financial year worked although it will be prorated for time and paid policies came into effect, at the normal payment date s. the Company will continue to give effect to it, even if it is inconsistent with the Remuneration Policy of the Company which is in effect at In the event of termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct or that time.
negligence, neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice would be given and the Executive Director would cease to perform Earlier remuneration policies of the Company will continue to apply services immediately.
in relation to awards granted under any company PSP and options granted under the Companys all-employee Sharesave Scheme, prior Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under to the approval of the Policy, as these may be granted under one policy our share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
and vest or be exercised under a later one.
Details of these previous The default treatment is that any unvested awards lapse on cessation commitments are included within previous Computacenter Annual of employment during the relevant performance or deferral period.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, sale of the employing The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set company or business outside the Group or any other circumstances out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation without at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status may be obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
For good leavers, awards will normally vest on their normal vesting date, and for awards made under the PSP, be subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions at that time and reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
The Committee may allow awards to vest at the time of cessation on the basis outlined above.
80 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Group CEO Mike Norris Group FD Tony Conophy Total Remuneration Total Remuneration 000 000 2,500 2,500 2,309 2,000 2,000 1,686 46% 1,500 1,500 1,296 31% 947 1,000 1,000 46% 28% 33% 603 31% 500 500 361 31% 26% 100% 36% 26% 100% 38% 28% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Total xed Annual Bonus PSP Total xed Annual Bonus PSP The charts above show the level of remuneration that is projected to be received by the Directors above in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy in the year 2017.
The charts above show three outcome scenarios: a Minimum receivable pay b In line with performance expectations, and c Maximum remuneration achievable.
In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Minimum pay receivable Only total fixed pay is received i. e. base salary, benefits and pension, and there is no vesting of any of Computacenters variable pay schemes: Benefits are those projected to be received by the Executive Director in 2017: and Pension is measured by applying a cash in lieu rate against salary in 2017.
On-target This is based on what an Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with the Companys expectations, which would result in the following scenario: Fixed pay is received: Annual bonus pays out at 85 per cent of total potential bonus award for performance in line with expectations: and PSP award pays out at 50 per cent of maximum.
Maximum This is based on what an Executive Director would receive assuming that the variable pay awards set out above pay out in full.
i. e. a bonus of 125 per cent of base salary and a PSP award with a face value of 200 per cent of base salary for the CEO: and a bonus of 100 per cent of base salary and a PSP award with a face value of 175 per cent of base salary for the FD.
It should be noted that, as required by the regulations, performance share plan awards are set out at face value, with no share price growth assumptions.
81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to determine on behalf of the Board: the Companys general policy on executive remuneration: and the specific remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and Senior Executives of the Group including, but not limited to, base salary, annual performance-related bonuses and PSP awards.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
All Directors are subject to the overriding principle that no person shall be involved in the process of determining his or her own remuneration.
The full responsibilities of the Committee are contained within its terms of reference, which are available on our website www.
Membership and attendance The Remuneration Committee is made up of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board, who was considered to be independent on appointment.
Details of the membership of the Committee and attendance of the members at Committee meetings during the year, is provided below.
Member Role Attendance record Current Members 1.
Philip Yea Chairman Senior Independent Director 4 4 2.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman of the Board 4 4 3.
Ros Rivaz Non-Executive Director 0 0 Ros Rivaz was appointed on 11 November 2016 after all 2016 Remuneration Committee meetings had taken place.
The CEO attends meetings by invitation, as does the Group HR Director and Group Head of Financial Reporting where financial information provided requires additional background or explanation to facilitate the considerations of the Committee.
The Group Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
The principal advisor to the Committee is Deloitte LLP Deloitte, who was selected by the Committee in September 2016 by way of a tender process.
Minnow Powell retains a beneficial interest in Deloitte and, as such, recused himself from all discussions relating to the appointment of Deloitte.
Advisors from 1 January to 31 August 2016 were Mercer Limited Mercer.
The total fees paid by the Company to previous advisors Mercer in 2016 was 12,436 and the total fees paid to Deloitte in 2016 was 19,650.
The Committee considers the advice that it receives from both Mercer and Deloitte to be independent.
During the year, Deloitte also provided tax advice to the Company.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily adheres to its code of conduct.
The Committee considers comparative practice in the European technology sector, FTSE techMARK 100 companies and FTSE 250 companies.
However, such market data is used by the Committee to inform, rather than drive, policy and decision making.
Audited information The audited tables and related notes are identified within this report, using an A key.
Included within this benefits figure is the cost to the Company of providing a driver service for Mike Norris which he uses for business and personal use.
This relates to the 2014 PSP awards which will be paid out in March 2017 and had a performance period of 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016.
The relevant performance criteria was partially achieved and therefore 85.13 per cent of the award vested for each of the Executive Directors.
This calculation is based upon the value of Computacenter plc shares at the end of the performance period being 8.00 on 30 December 2016.
Ros Rivaz was appointed to the Board on 11 November 2016.
Minnow Powell was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2015.
Philip Yea was appointed to the Board on 23 June 2015.
Remuneration paid in 2016: Executive Directors 2016 base salary The annual salaries of the Executive Directors were increased in 2016 by 5 per cent for the CEO and 4.6 per cent for the FD, following four consecutive years of nil increases 2012-2015 as previously disclosed.
2016 annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity in 2016 was 123.8 per cent of base salary for the CEO and 100 per cent of base salary for the FD.
The 2016 annual bonus is subject to clawback provisions for a period of two years from the end of the performance period, in the event that the Group misstates its financial results for the reporting period or in the event of misconduct by the Executive Director.
The 2016 annual bonus opportunity was driven by the financial performance of the business and individual targets for each Director.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, 80 per cent of this award was conditional on the achievement of criteria linked to the financial performance of the Group.
These targets were set by the Committee with reference to the Groups strategic and financial plans, as approved by the Board of Directors.
Further detail on these can be found within the table on page 84 of this report.
This approach is consistent with the Committees view that variable pay for the Executive Directors should be primarily linked to the transparent and measurable delivery of value to the Companys shareholders.
The nonfinancial personal objectives set for the Executive Directors were based principally on delivery against the Groups strategic objectives and certain governance-related objectives, including people development and succession planning.
As is reported in more detail in the Performance Review from pages 32 to 33, the Groups performance is reflected in the level of annual bonus awards paid to the Executive Directors.
The annual bonus criteria applied for each of the Executive Directors during 2016, were as follows: Mike Norris CEO Tony Conophy FD 2016 2016 1 1 Group adjusted pro t before tax Group adjusted pro t before tax up to 50% up to 50% Services contribution growth Services contribution growth up to 10% up to 10% Cash balance Cash balance up to 10% up to 10% Cost savings Cost savings up to 10% up to 10% Personal objectives Personal objectives up to 20% up to 20% 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED A The table below sets out details of performance against the FY 2016 Annual Bonus Targets: As apercentage of Performance required Maximum Bonus Actual % Opportunity Threshold On-target Maximum achieved Payout m Measure CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD CEO FD Financial criteria 1 Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax 50% 50% 12.5% 12.5% 40% 40% 50% 50% 13.15% 13.15% 85.5 44.7 Services Contribution Growth 10% 10% 5% 5% 10% 10% 10% 10% 7.14% 7.14% 46.4 24.3 Cash Balance 10% 10% 5% 5% 10% 10% 10% 10% 7.99% 7.99% 51.9 27.2 Cost Savings 10% 10% 5% 5% 10% 10% 10% 10% 8.84% 8.84% 57.5 30.0 Non-Financial criteria Personal Objectives 20% 20% 1% 1% 15% 15% 20% 20% 12% 13% 78.0 44.2 Total 100% 100% 28.5% 28.5% 85% 85% 100% 100% 49.12% 50.12% 319.3 170.4 The specific financial targets for the annual bonus in 2016 are still considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive, although the Committee keeps this position under review and will disclose such targets as soon as they are deemed to no longer be so.
As a result of this approach, the actual bonus targets for the 2015 full year are disclosed on page 85 of this report, and the Committee currently anticipates that the actual bonus targets for 2016 will be disclosed in the Groups 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
PSP During the year, there was a payout of 85.13 per cent of those awards granted to the Executive Directors, pursuant to the 2014 PSP Scheme as the relevant performance criteria threshold was partially achieved.
Vesting of these awards to each Executive Director was dependent upon the achievement of the following performance measures over a threeyear period, as follows: 1 The compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted fully diluted earnings per share EPS Performance level Company EPS Maximum 100 per cent vesting 20% In line with expectations 50 per cent vesting 10% Threshold 25 per cent vesting 7.5% Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis on between these thresholds.
1 The growth in adjusted EPS during the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 was 17.03 per cent.
The EPS number used for the base year of this award i. e. EPS in 2013 is consistent with the EPS number that was used to calculate the vesting of the 2011-2013 PSP award to which a discretionary downwards adjustment was made to reflect a provision for certain onerous contracts.
Accordingly, 85.13 per cent of the PSP awards granted to the Executive Directors will be paid out in March 2017.
Remuneration awards granted in 2016: Executive Directors A Share scheme interests awarded during the year The table below details awards made during 2016 under the PSP scheme.
The face value of the awards has been calculated based on the closing share price for the trading day immediately prior to the award date.
The performance conditions for these awards are set out in more detail directly below.
Amount vesting related to Threshold of Performance Performance Threshold Maximum Scheme Type Number of Face Value at Conditions Performance Performance Performance of Award Shares time of grant Applied % of face value % of face value Period Set Compound growth of Company EPS 70% 10% 100% PSP nil Compound Growth of 3 financial years from 1 Group CEO cost option 118,305 999,997 Services revenue 30% 25% 100% 1 January 2016 Compound growth of Company EPS 70% 10% 100% PSP nil Compound Growth of 3 financial years from 1 Group FD cost option 67,286 568,748 Services revenue 30% 25% 100% 1 January 2016 1.
This is based on the mid-market share price of Computacenter plc on 21 March 2016, being 8.45.
84 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Vesting of these awards to each Executive Director will be dependent upon the achievement of the following performance measures over a threeyear period, as follows: The compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted fully diluted earnings per share EPS Performance level Company EPS Maximum 12.5% In line with expectations 8.33% Threshold 5% The compound annual growth rate of the Groups Services Revenue GSR Performance level GSR Maximum 7.5% In line with expectations 5.5% Threshold 3.5% Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis on between these thresholds.
Retrospective disclosure: 2015 actual annual bonus targets Set out below are the actual bonus targets set for the Executive Directors in respect of the 2015 financial year, which are no longer considered commercially sensitive by the Committee.
In respect of the Non-Financial Criteria for the CEO, these included Personal Objectives related to the following: Proposing and implementing a plan which results in a significant improvement in the financial performance of Computacenter in France.
Developing clear successor plans for critical senior positions.
Making continued progress against objectives relating to diversity.
In respect of the Non-Financial Criteria for the FD, these included Personal Objectives related to the following: Reduce French debt position.
Help drive the centralisation agenda based on the successful model adopted in Hungary.
Continue to explore acquisition opportunities.
Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme, which is available to employees and full-time Executive Directors of the Computacenter Group.
Eligible employees can save between 5 and 500 a month to purchase options in shares in Computacenter plc at a price fixed at the beginning of the scheme term.
There are no conditions relating to the performance of the Company for this scheme.
Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011.
One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 the Performance Period equals 7.5 per cent per annum.
One-half of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 10 per cent per annum.
If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is between 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent over the Performance Period, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half.
Awarded shares will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 20 per cent or more over the Performance Period.
One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 the Performance Period equals 7.5 per cent per annum.
Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011. a In respect of 70 per cent of the total award: 10 per cent of this portion of the award will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the Performance Period equals 5 per cent per annum.
If the compound annual EPS growth rate over the Performance Period is between 5 per cent and 8.33 per cent, this portion of the award will vest on a straight-line basis up to one-half.
This portion of the award will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth equals or exceeds 12.5 per cent per annum, with straight-line vesting between 50 per cent and 100 per cent.
b In respect of 30 per cent of the total award: the award will start to vest if the compound annual Services growth rate over the Performance Period equals 3.5 per cent.
If the compound annual Services growth rate over the Performance Period is 7.5 per cent, this portion of the award will vest in full.
If the compound annual Services growth rate over the period is between 3.5 per cent and 7.5 per cent, then this portion of the award will vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
The Sharesave scheme only requires that an employee remains employed by the Group at the end of the term of the scheme.
There are no performance conditions attached.
Director gains PSP Number of Exercise Market value at Director Date of vesting Scheme shares price exercise Gain made Mike Norris 22 03 2016 PSP 162,500 Nil 8.424 1,368,989 Tony Conophy 22 03 2016 PSP 92,422 Nil 8.424 778,614 The closing market price of ordinary shares at 30 December 2016 being the last trading day of 2016 was 800.00 pence.
The highest price during the year was 885.00 pence and the lowest was 666.45 pence.
Minimum shareholding requirements In accordance with the Groups minimum shareholding guidelines, the CEO is required to build up a shareholding that is equal to 200 per cent of his her gross salary.
In respect of the Group Finance Director, the threshold that is expected to be achieved is 100 per cent of his her gross salary.
This will rise to 200 per cent in 2017.
It is additionally expected that the Executive Director will achieve these levels within five years of appointment.
For the purposes of these requirements, options which have vested unconditionally, but are as yet unexercised, will be included on a net basis, for the purposes of calculating shareholdings, as will shares held by an Executives spouse or dependants.
There is no requirement for the Non-Executive Directors of the Company to hold shares.
86 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 A Directors shareholdings The beneficial interest of each of the Directors in the shares of the Company, as at 31 December 2016, is as follows: Number of shares in Percentage of Interests In shares the Company as at requirement Current Directors 31 December 2016 achieved SAYE PSP Total 3 1 2 Mike Norris 1,142,157 870% 5,782 403,714 1,551,653 3 1 2 Tony Conophy 1,786,915 2230% 4,373 229,612 2,020,900 Greg Lock 600,000 n a 600,000 Philip Hulme 10,867,582 n a 10,867,582 Peter Ogden 27,994,474 n a 27,994,474 Minnow Powell 1,340 n a 1,340 Ros Rivaz 1,382 n a 1,382 Regine Stachelhaus n a Philip Yea 8,000 n a 8,000 Note: There has been no grant of, or trading in, shares of the Company between 1 January 2017 and 13 March 2017.
There are no conditions relating to the performance of the Company or individual for the vesting of this scheme.
There are performance conditions for this scheme as set out below the table on page 90.
Based on the Companys closing share price as at 30 December 2016, being 8.00.
Dilution limits Computacenter uses a mixture of both new issue and market purchase shares to satisfy the vesting of awards made under its Option, PSP and Sharesave plans.
In line with best practice, the use of new or treasury shares to satisfy awards made under all share schemes, is restricted to 10 per cent in any 10-year rolling period, with a further restriction for discretionary schemes of five per cent in the same period.
The Companys current position against its dilution limit is therefore under each of these thresholds.
The Company regularly reviews its position against the dilution guidelines and, should there be insufficient headroom within which to grant new awards which could be satisfied by issuing new shares, it is the intention of the Company to continue its current practice of satisfying new awards with shares purchased on the market.
Payments to past Directors and Payments for loss of office There have been no payments made to past Directors and no payments made for loss of office during the period.
Executive service contracts A summary of the Executive Directors contracts of employment is given in the table below: Notice Period Director Start Date Expiry Date Unexpired Term months Mike Norris 23 04 1998 n a None specified 12 Tony Conophy 23 04 1998 n a None specified 12 All Executive Directors have a rolling 12-month service contract with the Company, which is subject to 12 months written notice by either the Company or the Director.
External appointments for Executive Directors Executive Directors are permitted to hold outside directorships, subject to approval by the Chairman of the Board, and any such Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
During 2016, Mike Norris served as a Non-Executive Director of Triage Holdings Limited and received a fee of 8,000.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors have not entered into service contracts with the Company.
They each operate under a letter of appointment which sets out their terms, duties and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term, which runs to the conclusion of the third AGM following their appointment, which may be renewed at that point for a further three-year term.
The letters of appointment provide that should a Non-Executive Director not be re-elected at an AGM before he or she is due to retire, then his or her appointment will terminate.
The Board has agreed that all Directors will be subject to re-election at the AGM on 4 May 2017, with the exception of Ros Rivaz, who will be subject to election for the first time at that meeting.
87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
The appointments continue until the expiry dates set out below, unless terminated for cause or on the period of notice stated below: Date of latest letter of Director appointment Expiry Date Notice Period Greg Lock 13 May 2014 13 May 2017 3 months Philip Hulme 4 May 2016 4 May 2019 3 months Peter Ogden 4 May 2016 4 May 2019 3 months Minnow Powell 1 January 2015 1 January 2018 3 months Ros Rivaz 11 November 2016 11 November 2019 3 months Regine Stachelhaus 4 May 2016 4 May 2019 3 months Philip Yea 23 June 2015 23 June 2018 3 months In 2017, the Chairman will be paid a single consolidated fee of 195,000.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for Chairmanship of Board Committees.
The annual rates of Non-Executive Directors fees are shown in the table below.
Non-Executive Directors fees are generally reviewed every two years and the next scheduled review will be in December 2017: 2016 Annual 2017 Annual Position Fees Fees Non-Executive Director 50,000 50,000 Additional fee for the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee 16,000 16,000 Additional fee for the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee 10,000 10,000 Additional fee for the position of Senior Independent Director 6,000 6,000 Performance of the Company Total shareholder return performance Computacenter versus FTSE Software and Computer Services sector 1,500 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Computacenter FTSE All Share So ware and Computer Services In this graph, TSR performance shows the value, in December 2016, of 100 invested in the Companys shares in December 2008, assuming that all dividends received between December 2008 and December 2016 were reinvested in the Companys shares.
CEO pay history The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO over the previous eight financial years.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and PSP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and PSP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Salary Benefits Annual bonus CEO 5% 2.06% -60.25% Computacenter UK-based employees 2.45% -12.29% -5.68% The comparator Group of Computacenter UK-based employees was chosen as the Committee believes it provides a sufficiently large comparator Group based on similar incentive structure to the CEO and reduces any distortion arising from currency and cost of living differences in other geographies in which the Group operates.
As noted on page 83 the 2016 percentage change in salary for the CEO followed four consecutive years of nil increases as previously disclosed.
The year-on-year decrease in the benefits number for the UK-based employees is driven principally by a change in provider for certain benefits.
Relative importance of spend on pay The charts below show the relative expenditure of the Group on the pay of its employees, against certain other key financial indicators of the Group: 1 Expenditure on Group Shareholder distributions Group adjusted profit employees pay before tax 3.1% -77.9% -0.6% 2016 560.0m 2016 26.8m 2016 86.4m 2015 543.1m 2015 121.4m 2015 86.9m Including Return of Capital.
1 As well as information prescribed by current remuneration reporting regulations, Group adjusted profit before tax has also been included as this is deemed to be a key performance indicator of the Group which is linked to the delivery of value to our shareholders.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Executive Director Remuneration for 2017 will be in accordance with the terms of our Directors Remuneration Policy table, as set out on pages 76 to 81 of this report.
2017 base salaries The base salary of the CEO and the FD will remain unchanged.
2017 annual bonus The performance measures and weightings for the 2017 annual bonus will be as follows: Mike Norris CEO Tony Conophy FD 2017 2017 1 1 Group adjusted pro t before tax Group adjusted pro t before tax up to 50% up to 50% Services contribution growth Services contribution growth up to 10% up to 10% Cash balance Cash balance up to 10% up to 10% Cost savings Cost savings up to 10% up to 10% Personal objectives Personal objectives up to 20% up to 20% The measures for 2017 have been set to be challenging relative to our 2017 business plan.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2017 financial year, are deemed by the Committee to be commercially sensitive and therefore have not been disclosed.
They will be disclosed at such time as the Committee no longer deems them to be so, and it currently anticipates including these in the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in 2017 will be 125 per cent of base salary for the CEO, and up to 100 per cent of base salary for the FD.
These awards will be subject to deferral in line with our Policy on page 76.
89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2017 PSP The award levels for the Executive Directors in the 2017 financial year are 200 per cent of salary for the CEO and 175 per cent of salary for the FD.
The 2017 financial year PSP awards will be subject to the following performance conditions: a In respect of 70 per cent of the total PSP award made to the Executive Directors in 2017: Threshold Below Threshold Vesting On-target Maximum 0% vesting 10% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting Compound Annual Growth of Company Earnings per Share than 5% 5% 8.33% 12.5% In respect of the growth of EPS, awards will vest on a straight line basis between these points.
These targets will require management to deliver a strong, sustainable performance over the period.
b In respect of 30 per cent of the total PSP award made to the Executive Directors in 2017, these will be subject to targets based on growth of the Groups Services revenue over the three-year performance period.
These targets are currently deemed to be commercially sensitive, but in accordance with the Companys approach in this area, these will be disclosed once they are no longer deemed to be so.
The Committee currently anticipates that Services revenue targets for the 2017 PSP scheme will be disclosed in its 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
This achievement 2 will be measured on a constant currency basis.
Statement of voting at 2016 AGM The results of voting on the Directors Remuneration report at the Companys 2016 AGM are outlined in the table below: Votes cast in favour discretionary Votes cast against Total votes cast Votes Withheld abstentions 103,669,704 98.1% 2,000,742 1.9% 105,670,446 167,537 2014 Remuneration Policy Shares marked as votes Resolution No.
as noted on proxy form Shares for Shares against Withheld Abstentions Approve Directors Remuneration Policy 124,308,201 99.8% 233,086 0.2% 155,593 The Committee is grateful for the continuing support of shareholders, and in order to ensure that this continues, the Committee will ensure that it consults with shareholders on major issues on which it feels it is appropriate to do so.
It will also continue to adhere to its underlying principle of decision-making that Executive Director pay must be linked to performance and the sustainable delivery of value to our shareholders.
This Annual Remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Philip Yea Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 March 2017 90
