Remuneration Committee report Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present ConvaTecs first Remuneration Committee report Report as a listed company, for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
In line with the reporting Regulations, this Report is split into the following three sections: This Annual Statement and high level summary Our Remuneration Policy at a glance.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, which will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 11 May 2017.
Our Annual Report on Remuneration, detailing Director remuneration from Listing to 31 December 2016, and the proposed implementation of our Remuneration Policy for 2017, which is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at our AGM.
Committee members and independence Our aim is for ConvaTecs I chair the Committee, and my fellow Committee members are Sir Christopher Gent, Jesper Ovesen and Raj Shah.
The Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President Global Human remuneration policy to Resources and Vice President Compensation & Benefits attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The members of the reward performance and Committee and any person attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
underpin our ambition to The Code recommends that all members of the Committee are be recognised as the most independent non-executive directors.
As explained on page 56, Raj Shah is considered not to be independent for the purposes respected and successful of the Code.
However the Board believes that this Committee will still be able to operate effectively as two of its four members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, MedTech company in the Chairman, who is a member of the Committee, was also considered independent on appointment.
Committee will benefit from the experience of Raj Shah given his knowledge of the existing senior management team.
This non-compliance issue will be addressed as the structure of the Board changes over time.
Key areas of responsibility The Committees key areas of responsibility include to: Develop and recommend the Groups policy on executive remuneration.
Determine the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman and other senior executives.
Prepare an annual remuneration report for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Endorse the general reward structure for the Groups management below executive levels.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference which can be found at www.
66ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Activities of the Committee during the period The Committee intends that the proposed approach to The Committee met formally once during the period from implementing the Policy set out in this report will continue to Listing to 31 December 2016, and also spent a significant ensure close alignment of executive pay outcomes with the amount of time during the period including before Listing in Groups performance in 2017 and the longer-term success of finalising executive remuneration arrangements to ensure these the Group.
were appropriate for ConvaTec and reflect best practice for a FTSE 100 company.
At its first meeting following Listing, the The annual bonus for 2017 will be primarily linked to Group Committee: revenue and profit growth important KPIs for ConvaTec that Considered and approved its terms of reference.
capture and underpin our strategic drivers of: Established its forward agenda.
Optimising revenue growth from our strong portfolio of Agreed to increase the share ownership guidelines from differentiated products.
200% of salary as published in the Prospectus to 400% of Developing and commercialising new innovative technologies salary for the CEO, and 300% of salary for other Executive for the benefit of patients and healthcare providers.
Simplifying the way we operate to reduce complexity and costs, increasing efficiency and freeing up resources to invest Between the year-end and the signing of this Report, the elsewhere in our business.
Committee met once, in February 2017.
During this meeting, the Committee: The balance of the bonus opportunity will be based on the Considered and incorporated investor feedback on the achievement of personal strategic objectives.
Remuneration Policy that was extensively developed prior to and post Listing.
The vesting of LTIP awards to be made in 2017 will be based on Approved annual bonus payouts for the 2016 financial year two performance measures, selected to reinforce our strategic the targets having been set at the start of the year by the drivers and support alignment of executive pay outcomes with former Compensation Committee.
shareholder interests through direct linkage to longer-term Considered and approved the targets and personal objectives shareholder value creation.
50% of the 2017 LTIP award will for the 2017 annual bonus.
vest based on three-year cumulative EPS, with the remaining Agreed the performance measures for the first LTIP award 50% vesting on ConvaTecs Total Shareholder Return relative to cycle in 2017. a group of 13 international MedTech comparators.
Finalised this Directors Remuneration Report.
In line with our commitment to foster an open and transparent Our approach to developing ConvaTecs Remuneration approach to engaging with our shareholders, we consulted with Policy our largest investors in early 2017 on our proposed Policy and Our aim is for remuneration at ConvaTec to support and reward its implementation in 2017.
Those shareholders we consulted the achievement of the Groups Mission, which is to be were broadly supportive of the proposals, and the final Policy recognised as the most respected and successful MedTech reflects the feedback we received.
This includes the commitment company in the world.
Our new Remuneration Policy has been to introduce return on capital as a third measure to the LTIP for developed based on the following guiding principles for any awards made in 2018 onwards.
remuneration design, to: Incentivise sustained strong financial performance.
We hope that you find this report sets out clearly our proposed Align rewards with the delivery of the Groups strategy of Policy and how we intend to implement it, as well as the growth, innovation and efficiency.
The Committee believes that the Help ensure the alignment of employees with the interests of Policy and the approach to implementation in 2017 are in the shareholders and encourage widespread share ownership best interests of all shareholders, and we hope that you will across the workforce.
Help attract, motivate and retain the best talent to deliver the Groups strategy and create long-term shareholder value.
Reflect market best practice and consistently adhere to principles of good corporate governance and encourage good risk management.
Steve Holliday Our Remuneration Policy the Policy is intended to operate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for a three year period from the 2017 AGM.
The Committee 17 March 2017 believes that its approach to remuneration will support the delivery of the Groups aims during its initial years as a public company, and will continue to evolve in the future as the Group establishes itself as a listed company.
The key features of our Policy are summarised on pages 68 and 69 Our Remuneration Policy at a glance and the details are set out on pages 70 to 77.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc67 Remuneration Committee report Our Remuneration Policy at a glance Developing our remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee has developed the proposed Components of remuneration remuneration policy set out on pages 70 to 77, the key elements The remuneration package for the Executive Directors of which are set out below.
comprises both fixed and variable elements consistent with our remuneration principles.
Since Listing The basic elements of ConvaTecs remuneration policy were outlined in the Companys Prospectus dated 26 October 2016.
Fixed Following Listing, transitional remuneration arrangements were Salary put in place to cover the period from Listing to 31 December 2016.
Since Listing, the Remuneration Committee reviewed and Pension and other benefits further developed the remuneration policy based on external advice from its independent remuneration consultants, Kepler a Fixed total brand of Mercer, and having regard to the delivery of the Groups strategy and its long-term success.
Very few changes have been made to the broad policy elements outlined in the Prospectus.
Variable Annual bonus The proposed Policy is intended to become effective from the 2017 AGM subject to shareholder approval.
LTIP Remuneration principles Variable total The Policy is based on the remuneration principles see page 67 adopted by the Remuneration Committee.
The application of these principles ensures that remuneration outcomes are aligned with the Groups strategy and performance both in the Total remuneration short and long-term.
Shareholder consultation Key features of our proposed Policy The views of shareholders are important to us and the proposed The components of remuneration for the Executive Directors Policy will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM on 11 May are set out below.
The Committee is aware of the guidelines issued by investor bodies on corporate governance, in particular the importance of aligning remuneration with performance, and Fixed Components ensuring that policies are broadly consistent with those applying to the wider workforce.
The Committee is keen to foster an Base salary open and transparent approach to setting and determining outcomes against its remuneration policy and to that end we CEO Paul Moraviec 670,000 have engaged with a number of our largest shareholders in CFO Nigel Clerkin 465,000 relation to our proposed policy.
Policy Strategic drivers Base salaries were set on Listing and are normally reviewed Our strategy is designed to drive sales and earnings momentum annually.
The level of increase awarded will normally be by building our strong portfolio of differentiated products with aligned with those for the broader workforce.
Any increases leading positions in large structurally growing markets.
awarded come into effect from 1 April, in line with the Accordingly, we look to excel across the following three effective date for salary increases of the wider workforce.
strategic drivers: Growth Pension and other benefits Innovation Efficiency Pension CEO Paul Moraviec 15% of base salary These strategic drivers are embedded in our incentives through CFO Nigel Clerkin 15% of base salary the performance measures we select and the targets we set.
Benefits CEO Paul Moraviec 26,778 CFO Nigel Clerkin 27,600 This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as Policy amended.
It also meets the requirements of the UKLAs Listing Rules.
Executive Directors may receive a contribution of up to 15% of base salary to a personal pension plan, a cash allowance In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: the single total figure of or a combination of these.
Other benefits which include remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, and car allowance, medical insurance and life insurance are set accompanying notes pages 78 to 79, scheme interests awarded during at a level considered appropriate and consistent with the the financial year page 79, exit payments made in the year page 80, wider workforce.
payments to past Directors page 80 and the statement of Directors shareholdings page 82.
The remaining sections of the report are not subject to audit.
68ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Pay at risk Variable Components CEO Paul Moraviec CFO Nigel Clerkin Annual bonus..
Maximum bonus opportunities for 2017 CEO Paul Moraviec 200% of base salary CFO Nigel Clerkin 150% of base salary.
Organic revenue growth 40% Adjusted EBIT 40% Personal strategic objectives 20% 50% of the bonus opportunity will pay out for on-target.
No payout for at or below threshold.
2 3 to be paid in cash and 1 3 to be deferred in ConvaTec Group Plc shares for a further three year period.
Pay scenarios Policy Fixed remuneration Annual bonus LTIP Maximum award opportunity: 200% of base salary CEO Paul Moraviec Performance measures, targets and weightings are set by the Committee at the start of each year.
After the end of Maximum, k the financial year the Committee determines the level of bonus to be paid based on performance.
80% of the bonus On-target, k will normally be based on financial performance with Group revenue and Group profit weighted equally, with the Minimum k remainder linked to personalised strategic objectives.
CFO Nigel Clerkin Malus and clawback provisions apply under certain circumstances.
Maximum, k LTIP On-target, k Award levels for 2017 Minimum k CEO Paul Moraviec 225% of base salary CFO Nigel Clerkin 175% of base salary The above charts are based on the following assumptions: Maximum: xed remuneration salary, pension, other bene ts, plus maximum Performance measures Weighting bonus CEO: 200% of salary, CFO: 150% and full vesting of LTIP awards 3 year relative TSR 50% CEO: 225% of salary, CFO: 175%.
On-target: xed remuneration as above, plus target bonus 50% of maximum 3 year cumulative EPS 50% and threshold LTIP vesting 25% of maximum.
Minimum: xed remuneration only, being the only element of Executive Directors remuneration not linked to performance.
Policy Maximum award opportunity: 250% of base salary Prior to awards being granted each year the performance Shareholding requirements conditions and targets are set by the Committee to ensure they are stretching and aligned with the Group strategy.
CEO 400% of base salary 25% of an award will vest at threshold, with 100% vesting at CFO 300% of base salary maximum and straight-line sliding scale between these points.
The LTIP has a performance period of at least three Remuneration for the wider workforce years and a minimum vesting period of three years.
A two Remuneration for the wider workforce is determined based on year post-vesting holding period will apply.
broadly consistent principles as those for Executive Directors.
Annual salary reviews take into account Group performance, Malus and clawback provisions apply under certain local pay and market conditions to ensure that reward at circumstances.
Incentive arrangements are in place for some employees below the executive level.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc69 Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Policy Report This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors that has been developed to reflect the guiding principles set out on page 67.
This Policy Report will be put before shareholders for approval at our 2017 AGM.
The Committee intends that the Policy will come into effect from that date 11 May 2017 for a period of up to three years.
2017 Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary To attract and retain talented Base salaries will be reviewed by the The maximum salary payable to n a Executive Directors to deliver the Committee annually, and benchmarked Executive Directors will be capped at Groups strategy, by ensuring base periodically against comparable roles the upper quartile of the salaries and the implied total package at international MedTech peers, as well benchmarking comparator group for are competitive in relevant talent as UK-listed companies of similar size the role under review.
Salaries will be markets, while not overpaying.
Any resulting changes set on a case-by-case basis to reflect are normally effective from 1 April, in the role and the experience and line with the effective date for salary qualifications of the individual.
increases for the broader workforce.
Base salaries for the year under review In deciding base salary levels, the and the following year, as well as the Committee considers personal rationale for any increases, will be performance including the individuals disclosed in the relevant years Annual contribution to the achievement of the Report on Remuneration.
The Committee will also consider employment conditions and salary levels across the Group, and prevailing market conditions.
Base salary increases for the Executive Directors will normally be aligned with those of the wider workforce, but may be made above this level in exceptional circumstances such as a material change in responsibilities, size or complexity of the role, or if a Director was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary.
Pension To provide an appropriate level of Executive Directors may receive a Executive Directors are eligible for a n a post-retirement benefit for Executive contribution to a personal pension company contribution from the Group Directors in a cost-efficient manner.
plan, a cash allowance in lieu, or a of up to 15% of salary.
Details of the pension contributions Salary is the only element of made to Executive Directors during the remuneration that is pensionable.
year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Other benefits To provide non-cash benefits which The Group may provide benefits in Benefits for Executive Directors are n a are competitive in the market in which kind including, but not limited to, a set at a level which the Committee the Executive Director is employed.
company car or car allowance, private considers appropriate compared to medical insurance or allowance in lieu, wider employee benefits, as well as permanent health insurance, and life competitive practices in relevant insurance.
also be provided certain other benefits to take account of individual The value of annual benefits will circumstances such as, but not limited normally not exceed 10% of salary, and to, payment of tax, financial, and or it is not anticipated that the costs of legal adviser fees, expatriate allowance, benefits provided will increase relocation expenses, housing significantly in the financial years over allowance and tax equalisation which this Policy will apply, although including associated interest, penalties the Committee retains discretion to or fees plus, in certain circumstances approve non-material increases in cost.
or where the Committee consider it In addition, the Committee retains appropriate, any tax incurred on such discretion to approve a higher cost in benefits.
Executive Directors may also exceptional circumstances e. g. to be offered any other future benefits facilitate recruitment, relocation, made available either to all senior expatriation, etc.
or in circumstances employees globally or in the region in where factors outside the Groups which the Executive Director is control have changed e. g. market employed.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
70ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus To incentivise Executive Directors to Performance measures, targets and The maximum annual bonus Bonuses are based on a combination deliver strong financial performance weightings are set by the Committee opportunity is 200% of base salary.
of stretching annual financial and on an annual basis and reward the at the start of the year.
After the end of non-financial strategic performance delivery of the Groups strategic aims the financial year, the Committee The payout for on-target performance measures, selected to reflect the that will underpin the longer-term determines the level of bonus to be is 50% of maximum: threshold Groups short-term KPIs, financial goals health and growth of the business.
paid, taking into account the extent to performance which will not normally and strategic drivers.
which these targets have been be set lower than the prior year Deferral into shares enhances achieved.
outturn results in nil payout.
The financial element of the annual alignment with shareholders.
bonus will normally be weighted 80% To the extent that the performance The current maximum bonus of the overall bonus opportunity, as criteria have been met, one-third of the opportunities for each of the Executive measured by two equally-weighted annual bonus earned will normally be Directors are disclosed in the Annual elements based on Group revenue and compulsorily deferred into shares for a Report on Remuneration.
The remainder of the period of three years under the bonus will be linked to the achievement Deferred Bonus Plan.
The remainder of of personalised strategic objectives.
the bonus will be paid in cash.
The Committee may adjust the formulaic Dividends may accrue on deferred annual bonus outcomes including to bonus shares over the deferral period zero to avoid unintended outcomes, and, if so, will be paid in cash or align pay outcomes with underlying additional shares on deferred shares Group performance and ensure fairness that vest at the time these are released to shareholders and participants.
Further details will be disclosed in the Malus and clawback provisions apply to relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
the annual bonus in certain Performance targets set for each year circumstances as set out in the Notes will be disclosed retrospectively, to the Policy Table.
usually in the Annual Report on Remuneration in respect of the year to which such performance targets relate.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP To align the interests of Executive Executive Directors are eligible to The maximum annual LTIP opportunity Vesting of the LTIP is subject to Directors and shareholders in growing receive annual awards over ConvaTec is 250% of base salary.
continued employment during the the value of the Group over the Group Plc shares under the LTIP either performance period and the long-term.
in the form of conditional share awards 25% of an award will vest if achievement of performance or nil cost options.
performance against each conditions aligned with the Groups performance condition is at threshold strategic plan and shareholder value Prior to awards being granted each and 100% if it is at maximum, with creation.
LTIP awards granted in 2017 year, the performance conditions and straight-line vesting in between.
will be based on a combination of EPS targets are agreed and set to ensure and relative Total Shareholder Return, they remain appropriately stretching Further details of the LTIP awards and for awards granted in 2018 and aligned to the Groups strategy.
granted to each of the Executive onwards will include an additional Directors will be disclosed in the returns measure.
The weighting on Awards granted under the LTIP to relevant Annual Report on each measure may be adjusted prior to Executive Directors will have a Remuneration.
making new awards, although each performance period of three years and measure will be weighted at least 25% a minimum vesting period of three of the award opportunity.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant The Committee may adjust the performance period, awards will not formulaic LTIP outcome to ensure it vest.
Shares received as a result of an takes account of any major changes to award vesting will normally be subject the Group e. g. as a result of M&A to an additional two-year holding activity and is a fair reflection of the period.
underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance Dividends may accrue on LTIP awards period.
over the vesting period and, if so, will be paid in additional shares or in cash Further details, including the on shares that vest at the end of the performance targets attached to the vesting period.
LTIP in respect of each year, will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report LTIP awards granted to Executive on Remuneration.
Directors will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, as set out in the Notes to the Policy Table.
Save-As-You-Earn SAYE or equivalent scheme To align the interests of employees and Executive Directors are entitled to Employees are limited to saving a n a shareholders by encouraging all participate in the Groups all-employee maximum in line with the maximum employees to buy and own ConvaTec share plan applicable to the jurisdiction monthly savings limit imposed by the Group Plc shares.
in which they are based on identical Committee which will not exceed any terms as other eligible employees.
A limits imposed by legislation at the UK or Europe based Executive Director time they are invited to participate.
may make monthly savings over a period of three or five years or other period set by any relevant tax authority linked to the grant of an option over Group shares.
The option price will be set at a discount of up to 15% of the market value of the shares at grant to align with similar all-employee arrangements in the US.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc71 Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Policy Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Transition Awards legacy IPO related awards not part of 2017 Policy To maximise alignment of executive Transition Awards were made on a Share options: n a and shareholder interests through one-off basis shortly after Listing.
CEO: 225% of base salary strong linkage to the Groups share CFO: 175% of base salary price performance over the first three Awards comprise a grant of market years post-Listing, and support value share options and an award of Restricted shares: retention.
Awards will vest in CEO: 150% of base salary three equal tranches on the first, CFO: 120% of base salary second and third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment.
Share options have a five-year life.
Dividends shall accrue on restricted share awards but not options over the vesting period and will be paid in cash or additional shares on shares that vest at the end of the relevant vesting period.
Transition Awards granted to Executive Directors will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, as set out in the Notes to the Policy Table.
Notes to the Policy Table Malus and clawback policy Malus and clawback may be applied to the annual bonus, LTIP awards and Transition Awards in cases of fraud, negligence or gross misconduct by the Executive Director or material financial misstatement in the audited financial results of the Group.
Cash bonuses will be subject to clawback, with deferred shares being subject to malus, over the deferral period.
LTIP awards and Transition Awards will be subject to malus over the vesting period and clawback from the vesting date to the second anniversary of the relevant vesting date.
Share ownership guidelines The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors and shareholders interests through significant shareholdings in the Group.
The Groups policy as published in the Prospectus was initially set to require Executive Directors to build up a shareholding worth 200% of their base salary, and to retain these shares until retirement from the Board of Directors.
However, the Committee has since decided to increase the share ownership guidelines in line with prevailing best practice to 400% of base salary for the CEO, and 300% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
50% of any net vested share awards after sales to meet tax liabilities must be retained until the minimum shareholding requirements are met.
The share ownership guidelines have been met by the Executive Directors see page 82.
Details of the Executive Directors current personal shareholdings are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Use of discretion The Committee may apply its discretion as set out below when agreeing remuneration outcomes, to help ensure that the implementation of our Remuneration Policy is consistent with the guiding principles for ConvaTec remuneration.
Payments from outstanding awards The Committee reserves the right in certain circumstances to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments where the terms of the payment were agreed: before the Policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group provided, that in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not agreed in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
For these purposes, payments include the satisfaction of variable remuneration awards previously granted, but not vested, to an individual.
Minor changes to Policy The Committee retains discretion to make minor, non-significant changes to the Policy set out above for reasons including, but not limited to, regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without reverting to shareholders for approval for that amendment, where seeking such shareholder approval would be disproportionate to the discretion being exercised.
LTIP awards The Committee may exercise its discretion as provided for in the LTIP rules approved by shareholders.
The Committee may also adjust the number of shares comprising an LTIP award or the exercise price if the award comprises options in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award.
It is intended that any adjustment will be made on a neutral basis, i. e. to not be to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during a financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of consultation with the Groups major shareholders, as appropriate.
72ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Remuneration Policy for the wider workforce The Remuneration Policy for other employees is based on principles that are broadly consistent with those applied to Executive Director remuneration, with a common objective of driving financial performance and the achievement of strategic objectives, and contributing to the long-term success of the Group.
Remuneration supports our ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled and dedicated individuals, whose contribution continues to be a key factor in the Groups success.
Annual salary reviews take into account Group performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
Pension entitlements and other benefits vary according to jurisdiction, to ensure these remain appropriately competitive for the local market.
Employee ownership of ConvaTec Group Plc shares is promoted across the Group.
Some employees below executive level are eligible to participate in annual bonus schemes: opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Senior executives are eligible for LTIP awards on similar terms as the Executive Directors, although award opportunities are lower and vary by organisational level.
Other executives are eligible for restricted share awards on a discretionary basis.
ConvaTec also intends to offer all employees the opportunity to participate in a share purchase plan, subject to shareholder approval.
Approach to target setting and performance measure selection The Committee considers carefully the selection of performance measures at the start of each performance cycle, taking into consideration the Groups strategic objectives and the macroeconomic environment.
Annual bonus measures are selected to align with the Groups short-term KPIs.
Measures may change from year to year subject to the Remuneration Policy, and the rationale for any changes to the bonus measures selected will therefore be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP performance measures are selected to ensure they align with the Groups strategy and long-term shareholder value creation.
The first LTIP awards granted in 2017 subject to shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy will be based on a blend of EPS performance and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR over a three-year period.
The Committee considers these measures to align executive incentives to the Groups strategy and shareholder interests, and provide a good balance between external and internal measures of performance, and between growth and returns for this first cycle.
Targets are set to be stretching but achievable over the three-year performance period.
EPS targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal forecasts, external expectations for future performance at both the Group and its closest sector peers, and typical performance ranges for those measures at other FTSE companies of comparable size and complexity.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Maximum, On-target and Minimum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the forward-looking policy i. e. excluding Transition Awards, applied to 2017 base salaries and incentive opportunities.
Note that the LTIP awards granted in a year will not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
Pay scenarios Fixed remuneration Annual bonus LTIP CEO Paul Moraviec CFO Nigel Clerkin Maximum, k Maximum, k On-target, k On-target, k Minimum k Minimum k The above charts are based on the following assumptions: Maximum: xed remuneration salary, pension, other bene ts, plus maximum bonus CEO: 200% of salary, CFO: 150% and full vesting of LTIP awards CEO: 225% of salary, CFO: 175%.
On-target: xed remuneration as above, plus target bonus 50% of maximum and threshold LTIP vesting 25% of maximum.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc73 Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Policy Report continued Executive Director service contracts In accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract.
Paul Moraviec has a service contract with the Company and Nigel Clerkin has a service contract with ConvaTec Healthcare Ireland Limited, and a separate appointment letter dated 30 September 2016 with the Company in relation to his appointment as a Director of the Company, for so long as he is employed under his service contract.
Nigel Clerkin receives no compensation or benefits under this appointment letter in addition to those provided under his service contract.
The Executive Directors service contracts copies of which are available to view at the Groups registered office took effect on 31 October 2016 and are each terminable on 12 months notice from the Group and six months notice from the Executive Director.
This practice will also apply for any new Executive Directors.
The following table shows the date of the service contract for each Executive Director that served during the year: Executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of service agreement Paul Moraviec CEO 6 September 2016 12 October 2016 Nigel Clerkin CFO 30 September 2016 29 September 2016 Exit payments policy The Groups policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms in the executives service contract and the circumstances of termination.
Executive Directors contracts provide for the payment of a pre determined sum in the event of termination of employment in certain circumstances but excluding circumstances where the Group is entitled to dismiss without compensation, comprising base salary, pension allowance and benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of the notice period.
Termination payments may take the form of payments in lieu of notice.
Payments would normally be made on a phased basis and subject to mitigation.
If the employment is terminated by the Group, the Committee retains the discretion to settle any other amount the Committee considers reasonable to the Executive Director including in settlement of claims, in respect of legal fees incurred in connection with the termination and fees for outplacement services and relocation costs.
In additional to contractual provisions, the table overleaf summarises how awards under each discretionary incentive plan are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion as provided under the rules of the plan.
In the event of termination, any outstanding options granted under the SAYE or equivalent scheme will be treated in accordance with the rules of the scheme, which do not include discretion.
Disclosure in relation to any departing Executive Director, including details of any remuneration payment made to him after he ceases to be a Director, will be made on the Companys website in accordance with Section 430 2B of the Companies Act 2006.
74ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Treatment of awards on cessation of employment Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Timing of vesting payment Annual bonus Injury, disability, death, redundancy, retirement, or The Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment normally pro-rated for other such event as the Committee determines the proportion of the performance year worked and the Committee retains discretion to determine that the bonus should be paid wholly in cash.
The bonus payable will be determined based on the performance of the Group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Directors loss of office.
All other reasons including voluntary resignation No bonus will be paid for the financial year.
Deferred bonus shares Resignation or dismissal for cause Awards normally lapse.
All other reasons e. g. injury, disability, death, Awards will normally vest in full i. e. not pro-rated for At the normal vesting date, unless the Committee redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the time unless the Committee determines that time decides that awards should vest earlier e. g. in the Committee determines pro-rating should apply.
Change of control Awards will normally vest in full i. e. not pro-rated for On change of control.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
LTIP awards Resignation or dismissal for cause Awards normally lapse.
All other reasons e. g. injury, disability, death, Awards will normally be pro-rated for time unless At the normal vesting date, unless the Committee redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the the Committee exercises discretion to disapply time decides that awards should vest earlier e. g. in the Committee determines pro-rating and will vest based on performance over event of death.
the original performance period unless the Committee decides to measure performance to the date of cessation.
Change of control LTIP awards will normally be pro-rated for time On change of control.
unless the Committee exercises discretion to disapply time pro-rating and will vest subject to performance over the performance period to the change of control.
LTIP awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
Transition awards Resignation or dismissal for cause Awards normally lapse.
All other reasons e. g. injury, disability, death, Unvested awards will normally be pro-rated for time At the normal vesting date, unless the Committee redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the unless the Committee exercises discretion to decides that awards should vest earlier e. g. in the Committee determines disapply time pro-rating.
Change of control Unvested awards will normally vest in full.
Unvested awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
In addition to awards to be made under the above incentives, the Executive Directors hold ConvaTec Group Plc shares following the exchange on Listing of units held under the Management Equity Plan, a legacy scheme used pre-IPO.
Some of these shares remain subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances, and will be treated on cessation of employment as follows: Reason for cessation Treatment of awards subject to forfeiture Equity awards granted under legacy pre-IPO scheme that remain subject to forfeiture Dismissal for cause, or resignation other than for good reason during the Shares may be forfeited on cessation of employment during the Forfeit Period.
applicable period the Forfeit Period.
All other reasons, or following the end of the Forfeit Period.
Shares cease to be subject to forfeiture on cessation of employment.
Change of control during the Forfeit Period.
Shares cease to be subject to forfeiture on change of control.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc75 Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Policy Report continued Approach to remuneration on recruitment External appointments In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration set out in the Policy table, up to the disclosed maximum opportunities where applicable.
When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors based on the circumstances at that time to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
This may include factors such as the experience and skills of the individual, internal comparisons and relevant market data.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above the maximum limits on incentive opportunities set out in the Policy table.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the time over which they would have vested.
The intention is that the expected value of any buy-out award would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements, and that the structure will replicate as far as reasonably possible that of the awards being forfeited.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to structure buy-out awards differently from the structure described in the Policy table, exercising its discretion under the LTIP rules to structure awards in other forms including market value options, restricted shares, forfeitable shares or phantom awards and the discretion available under UKLA Listing Rule 9.4.
2R where necessary to make a one-off award to an Executive Director in this context.
Internal promotion Where a new Executive Director is appointed by way of internal promotion, the Policy will be consistent with that for external appointees, as detailed above other than in relation to buy-out awards.
Any commitments made prior to an individuals promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled, although the Group may, where appropriate, seek to revise an individuals existing service contract on promotion to ensure it aligns with other Executive Directors and good practice.
Disclosure on the remuneration structure of any new Executive Director, including details of any buy-out awards, will be disclosed in the RNS notification made at the time of appointment and in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which recruitment occurred.
External appointments held by Executive Directors Executive Directors may accept up to one external appointment subject to approval by the Board, there being no conflicts of interest and the appointment not leading to deterioration in the individuals performance.
Executive Directors may retain the fees paid for such roles.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received will be included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employees as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, considers pay practices across the Group and is mindful of the salary increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering any increases to salaries for Executive Directors.
However, the Committee does not currently consult with employees on its executive remuneration policy.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee will take into consideration all shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping the Groups implementation of its Remuneration Policy, as well as any future changes to Policy.
It is the Committees intention to consult with major shareholders in advance of making any material changes to remuneration arrangements.
76ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors Details of the Policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Performance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity measures Non-Executive Director fees To attract and retain Non-Executive The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Committee.
The fees paid Fee increases will be n a Directors of the highest calibre with to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and Executive applied taking into broad commercial and other Directors.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent account the experience relevant to the Group.
Director and for chairing or being a member of the Audit & Risk Committee, outcome of the the Remuneration Committee and any other Board committee.
Fee levels are reviewed annually with any increases normally effective The maximum 1 April, taking into account external advice on best practice and competitive aggregate annual levels, in particular at other FTSE companies of comparable size and fee for all complexity.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account Non-Executive when reviewing fees.
Directors including the Chairman as Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees are paid in cash.
provided in the Groups Articles of The Committee reimburses the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for Association is reasonable expenses in performing their duties and may settle any tax 1,500,000. incurred in relation to these expenses.
For any Non-Executive Director that is based overseas, the Group will meet travel and accommodation expenditure as required to fulfil their Non-Executive duties.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join the Groups pension, incentives or share schemes or to participate in any of the Groups other benefit arrangements.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the Policy set out above.
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract with the Group.
They do have letters of appointment, and will be submitted for re-election annually.
The dates relating to the appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors who served during the reporting period are as follows: Director Role Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Sir Christopher Gent Non-Executive Chairman 31 October 2016 18 October 2016 Steve Holliday Deputy Chairman 31 October 2016 14 October 2016 Jesper Ovesen Independent Non-Executive Director 31 October 2016 14 October 2016 Rick Anderson Independent Non-Executive Director 31 October 2016 12 October 2016 Raj Shah Non-Executive Director 30 September 2016 29 September 2016 Thomas Vetander Non-Executive Director 30 September 2016 29 September 2016 Kunal Pandit Non-Executive Director 30 September 2016 29 September 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc77 Remuneration Committee report Annual Report on Remuneration This section of the Remuneration Report provides details of how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 since Listing, and how it will be implemented during the year ending 31 December 2017.
Committee membership in 2016 The Committee is currently composed of four Non-Executive Directors: Steve Holliday Committee Chairman independent Sir Christopher Gent Non-Executive Chairman Jesper Ovesen Non-Executive Director independent Raj Shah Non-Executive Director The Committee met formally once during the period from Listing to 31 December 2016.
All Committee members attended this meeting.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which are available on our website at www.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy and packages for the Executive Directors and the Leadership Team being the direct reports to the Group CEO and covering the next most senior executives across the Group.
The Committee is also responsible for agreeing the fees for the Non-Executive Chairman.
The CEO, EVP Global Human Resources and VP Compensation & Benefits attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The members of the Committee and any person attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
Advisers Kepler, a brand of Mercer Limited, supported the Group on remuneration-related matters in the build up to the Listing.
At its first meeting following Listing on 13 December 2016, the Committee formally appointed Kepler as its independent adviser.
Kepler reports to the Committee Chairman.
Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK www.
Kepler does not have any other connection with the Group and is considered to be independent by the Committee.
Fees paid to Kepler are determined on a time and materials basis, and totalled 8,900 excluding expenses and VAT from Listing to 31 December 2016 in their capacity as advisers to the Committee.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the 2016 financial year, from their appointment as Executive Directors of ConvaTec Group Plc being 31 October 2016, when the Group listed.
As the Group was newly incorporated shortly prior to this date, no prior year figures have been shown.
The values of each element of remuneration are based on the actual value delivered, where known.
Prior to Listing, the salaries of our Executive Directors were reviewed against other international MedTech companies and FTSE-listed companies of comparable size to ConvaTec Group.
Paul Moraviecs base salary figure reflects his annual salary of 670,000 paid by the Group from Listing to the year-end.
Nigel Clerkins base salary figure reflects his annual salary of 465,000 paid by the Group from Listing to the year-end.
Consist primarily of car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Cash payment for performance during the year, pro-rated to reflect the period of the financial year from Listing to 31 December.
See below and overleaf for further details.
Pension benefits in the year, equivalent to 15% of base salary from Listing.
Reflects the value of Transition Awards granted shortly after Listing, which will vest in three equal tranches on the first, second, and third anniversaries of grant, subject to continued employment.
See page 79 for further details.
Restricted shares are valued at the share price on the date of grant 244.00p.
Share options are valued on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2016 audited Annual bonus in respect of performance in the 2016 financial year The payments under the annual bonus for 2016 will be paid in cash and relate to the annual bonus plan that was set at the start of the financial year, prior to the Groups Listing.
The annual bonus for 2016 is not subject to the deferral mechanism described on page 71.
Changes have been made to the annual bonus plan for 2017 to bring the plan more in line with best practice for a UK listed company, as set out on pages 80 and 81.
For 2016, the CEO had a maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of base salary, and the CFO had a maximum opportunity of 150% of salary from Listing.
The on-target opportunity was 50% of maximum.
The annual bonus for 2016 was based on a combination of EBITDA weighted 70% and revenue 30%, and payment is subject to an individuals performance rating being at least average.
78ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Over the 2016 financial year, Group EBITDA was between Target and Stretch, and revenue was between Threshold and Target.
This warranted an overall bonus payout to each Director of 80.77% of Target equivalent to 40.39% of their respective maximum opportunities.
The table below summarises the annual bonus payments for the Executive Directors: Salary earned Bonus for the for the period period from from Listing to Listing to Bonus 31 December 31 December Maximum outcome 2016 2016 Director opportunity % of max 000 000 Paul Moraviec 200% of salary 40.39% 112 90 Nigel Clerkin 150% of salary 40.39% 78 47 Although targets in relation to the 2016 financial year are not disclosed, it will be the Committees policy going forward to normally disclose annual bonus targets retrospectively, at the same time as the performance outcome is disclosed in the remuneration report after the end of each financial year to the extent they are not considered commercially sensitive.
Scheme interests awarded in 2016 audited Transition Awards Shortly after Listing, Executive Directors and other key executives were granted one-off Transition Awards under the 2016 LTIP rules, comprising a grant of market value options and an award of restricted shares.
The objective of these awards is to focus individuals on a successful transition from a private to a public company, to incentivise share price growth and so closely align the interests of executives with those of the Groups shareholders and to retain key individuals over the three year vesting period.
Awards will vest in three equal tranches on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of grant, subject to continued employment over the relevant vesting period.
No performance conditions apply to the Transition Awards.
Details of the awards are set out in the table below.
This share price was also used as the exercise price for the share options, and to calculate the award face values shown above.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2016, from their dates of appointment.
1 Fees Total Director 000 000 Sir Christopher Gent 133 133 Steve Holliday 45 45 Jesper Ovesen 28 28 Rick Anderson 24 24 Raj Shah Thomas Vetander Kunal Pandit 1.
Reflects the fees paid by the Group from each Directors date of appointment to 31 December 2016.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration This section is not applicable as the Group only listed on 31 October 2016: as such there is no prior year comparison that can be made.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc79 Remuneration Committee report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay There were no dividends paid or share buybacks implemented or other significant distributions, payments or other uses of profit or cashflow in the 2016 financial year which the Directors consider relevant in assisting an understanding of the relative importance of spend on pay.
Total staff costs disclosed in the Notes to the Financial Statements were $528.9m for the same period.
Exit payments made in the year audited No exit payments were made during the year.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
External appointments Neither Executive Director currently holds any external appointments.
Review of past performance This graph shows the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to the FTSE 100 Index, of which the Group is now a constituent.
Performance, as required by legislation, is measured by TSR over the period from commencement of conditional dealing 26 October 2016 to 31 December 2016.
TSR chart for DRR ConvaTec vs the FTSE index Value of invested on October in ConvaTec and the FTSE index October December ConvaTec FTSE The table below details the CEOs single total figure of remuneration and incentive outcomes over the same period: 2016 CEO Paul Moraviec CEO single figure 000 1,413 Annual bonus % max 40% LTIP vesting % max n a Implementation of Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2017 Base salary Base salaries were set on Listing taking into account competitive practice for similar roles in other international MedTech companies and FTSE 100 companies of similar size.
The current salaries of the Executive Directors, effective from Listing, are set out below: Director Base salary Paul Moraviec 670,000 Nigel Clerkin 465,000 Executive Director salary levels will remain at these levels for 2017, and will be first reviewed later in the year with any increases that may be awarded being effective 1 April 2018.
Pension Both Executive Directors receive a cash allowance of 15% of base salary in lieu of a pension contribution.
80ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Annual bonus For 2017, the CEO will have a maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of salary, and the CFO will have a maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary.
The on-target bonus opportunity is 50% of maximum.
Two-thirds of any bonus earned will be paid in cash, with the remainder deferred into ConvaTec Group Plc shares for a further three-year period.
The annual bonus for 2017 will be based on the following measures and weightings: Measure Weighting Organic revenue growth 40% 1 Adjusted EBIT 40% Personal strategic objectives 20% 1.
Excludes exceptional one-off items and the impact of portfolio changes occurring in the performance year.
The Committee will normally disclose the annual bonus targets retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
In the event the Board considers these targets to remain commercially sensitive, they will be disclosed as soon as possible once they are no longer considered to be sensitive.
In line with our policy, bonuses for the 2017 financial year will be subject to the Groups malus and clawback provisions see page 72 for further details.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP In 2017, the Executive Directors will receive conditional awards of shares under the ConvaTec LTIP, with face values of 225% of salary for the CEO, and 175% of salary for the CFO.
The 2017 LTIP will vest after three years, subject to the following performance measures and targets: Threshold Maximum Measure Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting th 3-year Relative TSR 50% Median 90 percentile 3-year cumulative EPS 50% 62 69 Relative TSR has been selected by the Committee to closely align executive interests with those of shareholders.
The Committee took into account a number of factors, including the ongoing debate on executive remuneration, in determining that a relative calibration of TSR targets would be more appropriate for the 2017 LTIP cycle than an absolute calibration, as previously disclosed in the Prospectus.
ConvaTecs TSR performance will be measured over the three-year period commencing 1 January 2017, and compared to the following companies on the basis of TSR rank: Ambu, Beckton Dickinson, Coloplast, C R Bard, Fresenius, Getinge, GN Store Nord, Integra Lifesciences, Smith & Nephew, Stryker, Teleflex, William Demant and Zimmer Biomet.
EPS has been selected by the Committee because it closely aligns with, and incentivises delivery of, the Groups strategy.
It is also a measure welcomed by the majority of our shareholders.
The performance target ranges have been set at stretching levels taking into account both internal and external forecasts, and commensurate with the targets set for the Relative TSR element of the LTIP th median to 90 percentile.
EPS performance shall be measured on a constant currency basis by reference to 2016 average rates.
The maximum vesting level is set to represent very stretching performance.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust performance targets under the EPS element to appropriately reflect the impact of acquisitions and disposals occurring during the performance period, to ensure fairness to shareholders and participants.
The use of any such discretion would be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
To provide further alignment with shareholders, LTIP awards will be subject to an additional post vesting holding period.
To the extent an award vests subject to three-year performance, shares will be required to be held for a further two years i. e. until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
In line with our policy, LTIP awards will also be subject to the Groups malus and clawback provisions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc81 Remuneration Committee report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Implementation of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2017 Non-Executive Director fees were set on Listing taking into account competitive practice for similar roles in other international MedTech companies and FTSE 100 companies of similar size.
The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are set out below: Role Fee Chairman 400,000 Deputy Chairman basic fee 110,000 Non-Executive Director basic fee 60,000 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 20,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 22,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20,000 Membership of Board committees 12,000 Non-Executive Director fees will remain at these levels for 2017.
As appointees of the Groups significant shareholders, Raj Shah, Thomas Vetander and Kunal Pandit do not receive fees in connection with their appointment as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Directors shareholdings audited The table below sets out details of the current shareholdings of each Director and any relevant connected persons as at 31 December 2016 and, for Executive Directors, compares this to their shareholding guideline as set out below.
No prior year data is available given Listing occurred on 31 October 2016.
Shares Options Owned Unvested and Unvested and Vested but Unvested and Current Shareholding 3 outright or not subject to subject to not not subject to shareholding guideline 1 2 2 Director vested performance performance exercised performance % salary % salary Paul Moraviec 4,837,448 403,614 0 0 605,422 1,726% 400% Nigel Clerkin 3,976,976 200,186 0 0 291,938 2,289% 300% Sir Christopher Gent 111,111 Steve Holliday 88,889 Jesper Ovesen 88,889 Rick Anderson 72,651 Raj Shah Thomas Vetander Kunal Pandit 1.
Vested shares remain subject to a time-based lock-up arrangement and or a forfeiture arrangement as follows: a. P ursuant to an Underwriting Agreement entered into in connection with the Listing, the Executive Directors have agreed subject to certain exemptions, during the period of 12 months from the date of the Listing 31 October 2016, they will not dispose of shares held by them at Listing other than shares sold at the time of the Listing.
In addition, the Executive Directors alongside other senior employees of the Group entered into a lock-up arrangement with the Company and ConvaTec Management Holdings Limited in relation to shares in the Company that they did not sell in connection with the Listing.
Pursuant to this arrangement, the Executive Directors have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not sell or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any of their shares or any interest therein or enter into any transaction with the same economic effect as a sale or disposal in respect of any of their shares prior to the first anniversary of the Listing on 31 October 2016 and in respect of 50% of their shares prior to the second anniversary of Listing.
A m aximum of: i 2,892,346 shares held by Paul Moraviec: and ii 1,908,948 shares held by Nigel Clerkin are subject to a forfeiture arrangement the Forfeit Mechanism pursuant to which these shares which are held through a nominee arrangement with ConvaTec Management Holdings Limited may be acquired by the Employee Benefit Trust in the event that a Termination Event occurs.
For these purposes, a Termination Event occurs when an individual gives notice to terminate his contract of employment other than for good reason or an individual is dismissed for cause within a specified period following the Listing the Forfeit Period.
Where the Termination Event occurs by reason of an individual being dismissed for cause, the Forfeit Period will last 24 months in the case of Paul Moraviec and for 12 months in the case of Nigel Clerkin.
Where the Termination Event occurs by reason of the Executive Director giving notice to terminate his contract of employment other than for good reason, the Forfeit Period shall last for nine months for Nigel Clerkin and 21 months for Paul Moraviec.
The proportion of shares that can be forfeited is dependent on when a Termination Event occurs.
After the Forfeit Period no shares will be subject to the Forfeit Mechanism.
Unvested awards not subject to performance reflect the Transition Awards granted on 11 November 2016, which vest in equal tranches on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to continued employment.
Executive Director shareholdings calculated using a share price of 239.05p, being the average share price from Listing to 31 December 2016.
No further shares were acquired by the Directors between 31 December 2016 and 17 March 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Steve Holliday Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 March 2017 82ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
