com REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED INTRODUCTION TO THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATIONREPORT ANNUAL EVALUATION OF NOMINATION COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE As part of the overall Board evaluation process, OUR POLICY AIMS TO the Nomination Committee reviewed its effectiveness during 2016.
This evaluation considered areas ALIGN MANAGEMENT such as adherence to its terms of reference and AND SHAREHOLDERS whether it was operating effectively to keep under review the leadership needs of the Company.
No INTERESTS AND TO significant issues were raised and the Nomination ATTRACT AND RETAIN Committee concluded that it continues to operate effectively.
EXECUTIVES OF THE Details of the Nomination Committees meetings HIGHEST CALIBRE.
during the 2016 financial year are set out below.
Committee Chairman Amanda Burton COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Other members DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, The number of Nomination Committee David Howell On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present meetings attended by each member during the first Directors Remuneration Report of the Sally Morgan the 2016 financial year is as follows: Remuneration Committee Committee Richard Adam following the IPO on 17February 2016.
Nomination Overall Committee attendance Meetings held THE WORK OF THE Number of  1 meetings held 3 6 The year ended 30 September 2016 was a major milestone in Countrysides history.
In anticipation David Howell 3 3 100% Role and responsibilities of the of the IPO, the Committee undertook a detailed Richard Adam 2 2 100% Remuneration Committee: review of the Companys remuneration policy.
Recommending to the Board the Companys Amanda Burton 3 3 100% Akey driver in the review was to determine policy on executive remuneration anappropriate remuneration policy for a listed Federico Canciani 3 3 100% company whilst ensuring continued emphasis Setting overarching principles Baroness Morgan 3 3 100% onthose values which have been fundamental andparameters and the governance tothe Companys success.
The number of meetings held reflects the Committeemeetings of Copthorn Holdings Limited remunerationpolicy from1October2015 to 17December 2015 and the Determining the individual remuneration Committee meetings of Countryside Properties PLC from17 December 2015 to 30September 2016. and benefits package of each of the 2.
Richard Adam was appointed a member of the Companys Executive Directors and Nomination Committee after the meeting on itsCompany Secretary 8December 2015.
The Remuneration Committees COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE termsofreference are located The number of Remuneration Committee  at: meetings attended by each member during investors.
com the 2016 financial year is as follows: Remuneration Overall Areas of focus in 2016 Committee attendance The principal additional area of focus for the THE NOMINATION Number of Committee during 2016 has been leading 1 meetings held 6 the competitive tender for the appointment COMMITTEES FOCUS of the Groups remuneration advisors, following David Howell 6 6 100% IN2016 HAS BEEN the re-appointment of PwC as Group auditors.
Richard Adam 6 6 100% This necessitated replacing PwC as remuneration SUCCESSION advisors.
The Remuneration Committee Amanda Burton 6 6 100% PLANNINGAND received three competitive tenders, from which Baroness Morgan 6 6 100% TALENT DEVELOPMENT a recommendation to appoint New Bridge Street was made to the Board.
The number of meetings held reflects the FOR THESENIOR Committeemeetings of Copthorn Holdings Limited from1October2015 to 17December 2015 and the MANAGEMENT TEAM.
Committee meetings of Countryside Properties PLC from17 December 2015 to 30September 2016.
52 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION TO THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATIONREPORT OBJECTIVES OF THE KEY PAY OUTCOMES DURING 2015 16 REMUNERATION POLICY The post-IPO remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors were agreed during the review The Companys aim is to attract, retain and motivate detailed above and consist of: the best talent to help ensure continued growth salaries set at a broadly mid-market rate, taking into consideration experience and performance: and success as it enters the next stage of its development.
The proposed policy is designed to: competitive pension and benefits provision: align the interests of the Executive Directors, an annual bonus plan with deferral of a proportion in shares: senior executives and employees with the a performance share plan with the ability to impose a two-year post-vesting holding period: long-term interests of shareholders and strategic objectives of the Company: the opportunity to participate in all-employee share plans: and support a high performance culture with share ownership guidelines.
appropriate reward for superior performance Countryside has had an incredibly successful year, reflected in the Groups strong growth in completions, without creating incentives that will encourage adjusted operating profit and return on capital employed.
As a result of this strong performance, excessive risk taking or unsustainable 100per cent of the maximum annual bonus has been awarded to the Executive Directors.
Company performance: enable the Company to recruit and retain HOW DID WE PERFORM IN 2015 16?
individuals with the ability to lead the Group Our performance against our key performance indicators is set out in the Strategic Report on on its ambitious growth path: and pages 14 to 17. ensure that our remuneration structures are 2015 16 pay-out 2014 15 pay-out transparent and easily understood.
Annual bonus Adjusted operating profit target 60% 100% 20% Adjusted operating margin target THE STRATEGIC CONTEXT 20% Personal performance 2016 has been a momentous year for Countryside, seeing its return to the London Stock Exchange in an IPO in February 2016.
The Group has continued Full details of the targets and performance against them are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration to perform strongly during the year, delivering a see page 63.
12 per cent increase in completions together with a 34 per cent increase in adjusted operating profit The first Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards were granted in February 2016, subject to performance to 122.5m 2015: 91.2m and a 210bps increase against stretching targets, being relative total shareholder return TSR, return on capital employed in return on capital employed to 26.8 per cent ROCE and tangible net asset value TNAV.
The Group remains firmly on track to deliver its medium-term growth targets.
The Groups remuneration policy reflects a desireto attract and retain high calibre talent toenable the Group to achieve its growth plans, whilst rewarding management in a way which ensures the alignment of interests with the Groups shareholders.
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How much were the Executive Directors paid in 2015 16?
Ian Sutcliffe Rebecca Worthington 000 000 1 2 Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus 488 17 179 607 300 18 53 70 Total Total 15 16 15 16 1,291 441 Total Total 3 14 15 14 15 937 57 Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Salary Benefits Pension 433 17 87 400 50 2 5 Fixed pay Performance-related pay Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus 1.
T he amounts disclosed in this table relate to the cash received during the financial years presented.
The amount charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is shown in the single figure of remuneration table on page 63.
T he annual bonus payment in respect of the 2014 15 financial year was paid in 2015 16 and attracted a pension salary supplement of 12 per cent, the rate applicable to that financial year.
From date of appointment on 1 August 2015.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR2016 17 Summary of remuneration policy Element Policy summary Base salary Base salaries will be set based on the market value of the role and the experience and performance of the individual.
Pension The Company will provide either contributions to the Company defined contribution pension scheme or a pension salary supplement.
Annual bonus A maximum award of 150per cent of salary.
The annual bonus is paid annually and is dependent on achievement of financial and other strategic performance metrics over the financial year.
Two-thirds of amounts earned are paid in cash, with one-third deferred as shares for a period of three years.
Long Term Incentive Plan A maximum award of 200per cent of salary.
LTIP LTIP awards will vest subject to stretching targets which may include relative TSR, ROCE and TNAV.
The Committee has discretion to introduce a post-vest holding period and whilst it is not anticipated that this will be used in the first or second years following IPO, the Committee reserves the right to exercise discretion in future years.
The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors in September 2016 and awarded salary increases of 3 per cent with effect from 1 October 2016, inline with the wider employee base.
In addition, Executive Directors will be awarded the maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent and LTIP of 200 per cent of base salary.
The structure of the annual bonus and LTIP will remain unchanged in 2017.
The annual bonus targets will be based on adjusted operating profit, Group return on capital employed and personal performance.
LTIP targets will continue to be based on return on capital employed, tangible net asset value and relative total shareholder return.
CONCLUSION The Committee recognises the importance of developing a close relationship with shareholders in facilitating the work of the Committee in developing theremuneration policy.
In September 2016, we communicated the terms of the remuneration policy to our major shareholders in order to obtain theircomments.
We will continue to ensure that our remuneration policy is both aligned with shareholders interests, and attracts and retains executives ofthe required calibre to ensure the Companys continued success.
On behalf of the Committee, I welcome your feedback and ask for your support at theforthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Amanda Burton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 November 2016 54 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT appropriate reward for superior performance without creating incentives SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION FOR 2015 16 that will encourage excessive risk taking or unsustainable Company performance.
ALIGNMENT BETWEEN PERFORMANCE AND PAY Overall remuneration levels have been set at a level that are considered by In 2016, the meetings of the Committee covered the following key areas: the Committee to be appropriate for the size and nature of the business.
benchmarking of senior management remuneration: Allvariable pay awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions in consideration and approval of the 2016 LTIP and 2016 Save As You Earn accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
SAYE plan: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY determination of LTIP recipients, grant level and targets: The following table summarises the key components of the Executive Director determination of bonus targets and awards: and Non-Executive Director remuneration arrangements, which will form part of the remuneration policy subject to formal approval by shareholders at the determination of annual salary increases for the Group: and first AGM of the Company following Admission inaccordance with the consideration of structures and measures for the 2016 17 annual bonus.
regulations set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Amendment Regulations 2013.
It is intended that this OVERVIEW OF REMUNERATION POLICY policy will apply for three years from that date, and that it will continue to be The Companys remuneration policy was reviewed fully prior to listing, in operated for the period from admission tothat meeting.
accordance with current regulation and guidance, in order to ensure the The details of the Groups Executive Director and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy in place was appropriate for a listed company.
remuneration for the financial year, including the operation of the Groups The Companys aim is to attract, retain and motivate the best talent to help incentive plans and payments made under them, will be set out each year in drive continued growth and success as it enters the next stage of its development an Annual Report on Remuneration contained in the Groups Annual Report, operating as a listed company.
as required by the Regulations.
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Executive Our remuneration policy aims to align the interests of the Executive Directors, Directors, including the rationale for their use and details of their operation: senior executives and employees with the long-term interests of shareholders.
It aims to support a high performance culture with EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Objective and link Performance measures to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity andassessment Base salary Recognises the market Salaries are normally reviewed annually, with any changes There is no formal Not applicable.
value of an Executive effective as of 1 October each year.
maximum salary other Directors role, skill, than wherethere is Current salaries, effective from 1 October 2016, are as follows: responsibilities, achange of role or Chief Executive: 515,000 performance and responsibility and Group Chief Financial Officer: 309,000 experience.
increases will normally Salaries are set by reference to a market benchmark based on beonly for inflation companies of a comparable size operating in a similar sector.
and orinline with the Salary reviews will also take into consideration an individuals wider workforce.
performance, responsibility levels and internal relativities.
Other benefits Provides a Reviewed periodically to ensure benefits remain Benefit values vary Not applicable.
year on year depending package.
on premiums and the The main benefits currently provided include: maximum potential value car or car allowance: is the cost of the provision life, personal accident, disability and health insurance: of thesebenefits.
Directors and officers insurance: and other benefits, including flexible benefits, as provided from time to time, for example where a Director relocates.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
In addition, reasonable business expenses and any tax thereon may be reimbursed by the Company.
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Objective and link Performance measures to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity andassessment Annual bonus scheme The annual bonus is Bonus awards will be granted annually.
Maximum opportunity: Performance targets will beset designed to incentivise 150per cent of salary.
by the Committee annually The performance period is one financial year with theExecutive Directors based on a range of financial pay-outsdetermined by the Committee following the Participants may be to deliver against and strategic measures selected yearend, based on achievement against a range of entitled to dividends goalslinked to the to reflect the in-year goals of performance targets.
the business and its longer-term onthe deferred shares Up to two-thirds of the bonus award will be paid out in strategy and KPIs.
At least Long-term alignment representing the value cash with the remainder deferred into shares for a period 50per cent of the bonus will with shareholder of dividends paid during ofthree years subject to continued employment.
Bonuses bebased on financial measures interests is ensured thedeferral period.
relating entirely to periods prior to admission will not be in any year.
Targets are normally set on a Malus and clawback arrangements will apply toannual sliding scale, with no more than bonus awards enabling the reduction in vesting or recovery 25per cent of the maximum of amounts paid in certaincircumstances.
typically payable at threshold performance and 50per cent of the maximum typically payable for on-target performance.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is designed Awards of shares that vest three years fromthe date The maximum LTIP award LTIP performance will be toincentivise Executive of grant subject to achievement againstperformance level is 200per cent of assessed against a mix of Directors to successfully measures, measured over athree-year period.
metrics that will include a deliver the Companys are subject to malus and clawback provisions enabling balance between financial and Participants may at the objectives over the the reduction in vesting or recovery of amounts paid shareholder metrics.
For the Committees discretion longer term and .
awards granted on IPO and receive dividends or tocreate alignment 2017 awards these are: The Committee retains the flexibility to incorporate dividend equivalents withinvestors over atwo-year post-vest holding period as part of the LTIP representing the value TSR measured against thisperiod.
inwhich Executive Directors will not be permitted to sell ofdividends paid during abroad-based vested shares.
This would take the total period from grant the performance period comparatorgroup: to release of LTIP shares to five years.
The Committee does on LTIP awards.
TNAV: and not anticipate operating this period in the first or second ROCE.
cycle of awards under the plan.
Targets are set on a sliding scale with no more than 25percent of each element vesting at threshold performance.
TheCommittee will review and set weightings for measures and appropriate targets before each grant.
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards asappropriate.
56 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Objective and link Performance measures to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity andassessment Pension To aid retention Pension contributions will be made into the Companys The maximum Not applicable.
contribution or competitive levels of equivalentallowance Alternatively, a participant may receive a cash allowance retirement benefit.
ofupto 25percent inlieu of pension typically in the scenario where they have ofbasesalary forthe reached the lifetime allowance for pension tax relief set ChiefExecutive and byHMRC.
Save As You Earn plan SAYE The purpose of this Executive Directors are able to participate in Maximum participation Not applicable.
plan is to encourage all HMRC-approved savings-based share plans available levelswill be set based on employees to become toallemployees of the Company.
the applicable limits set by shareholders in the HMRC from time to time.
Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in any Company and thereby all-employee share plan operated bythe Company on the align their interests sameterms as other eligibleemployees.
Shareholding guidelines To align Executive Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in Not applicable.
Directors interests theCompanys shares to a minimum value of two times withthose of our their base salary.
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors remuneration policy, strategy.
Future metrics will align our long-term goal of value creation authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered forshareholders through strong underlying financial growth.
The metrics for into previously with Directors.
the first awards were relative TSR, TNAV and ROCE.
It is intended that the targets for the 2017 LTIP awards will be based on the same metrics.
Malus and clawback The circumstances in which malus and clawback may apply include a material Discretion misstatement of the Companys accounts, error in assessment of performance The Remuneration Committee retains discretion over certain elements of or calculation of the number of awards, individual gross misconduct or the policy as set out in the report including the operation of the variable conduct resulting in reputational damage to the Group.
The Committee may adjust elements of the plans including, but not limited to: Performance measures and targets The short and long-term incentive plans have a number of different financial participation: performance measures aligned to the performance of the Company.
Targets the timing of the grant of award and or payment: will be set with reference to prior year performance, budget and brokers forecasts and other external market expectations.
Performance targets will the size of an award up to plan limits and or payment: be set so as to be achievable but representing stretching performance for in exceptional circumstances, to grant and or settle an LTIP award in cash: the business.
discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a Annual bonus performance metrics are determined at the start of each change of control: financial year based on the key business priorities for the year ahead.
Themajority will be linked to a profit metric as this is the primary indicator determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories of our sustainable growth.
The target ranges for the measures used in the for incentive plan purposes: annual bonus scheme are considered to be commercially sensitive at the adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, start of the financial year and prospective disclosure is not in the interest corporate restructuring and special dividends : and ofshareholders.
Other than in exceptional circumstances where elements remain commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved and the ability to recognise exceptional events within existing awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so .
shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs.
Should any such discretion be exercised, an explanation would be provided LTIP metrics are determined at the time of grant.
Performance measures in the following Annual Report on Remuneration and may be subject to forthe initial awards were selected to support the Companys long-term shareholder consultation as appropriate.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, whose remuneration is determined by the Committee and recommended to the Board.
The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Non-Executive Directors: Objective and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Fees Core element of Fee levels are sufficient to attract Fees are reviewed each year, with any increases normally effective from remuneration, set at a level individuals with appropriate 1October.
sufficient to attract and retain knowledge and experience.
Any increases in fees will be determined based on time commitment and individuals with appropriate Non-Executive Directors are paid will take into consideration the level of responsibility and fees paid in other knowledge and experience in a base fee and additional fees for companies of comparable size and complexity, e. g. median fee levels of organisations of broadly similar chairmanship of Committees and comparable companies within the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors do not receive any variable remuneration element Director.
In exceptional or receive any other benefits, other than being covered for disability benefits circumstances, fees may also be under the Companys insurance whilst travelling on Company business.
paid for additional time spent on The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Chairman and the Companys business outside of Non-Executive Directors.
The Company may also provide limited hospitality normal duties.
and selected benefits and settle any tax thereon provided that this is in connection with the performance of their role.
58 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
The remuneration package for any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the Executive Director policy would apply.
Historic entitlements would continue to be honoured and allowed to pay out on their original terms, and will be fully disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration at the relevant time.
The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Base salary and benefits The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors, including market practice, the individuals experience and responsibilities and other pay structures within Countryside and will be consistent with the salary policy for existing Executive Directors.
Starting salaries may therefore be set below the market level and, subject to performance, increased by more than inflation as the employee gains experience over time.
The Executive Director will be eligible to receive benefits in line with Countrysides benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension An Executive Director will be able to participate in Countrysides defined contribution pension scheme, orreceive cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with policy for existing Directors.
Annual bonus An Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The maximum opportunity will be no more than 150per cent of salary, as per the policy for existing ExecutiveDirectors.
Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may deem it appropriate to set different annual bonus performance conditions for Executive Directors for the first year of appointment.
Long-term incentives An Executive Director will be eligible to participate in Countrysides Long Term Incentive Plan as set out intheremuneration policy table.
The maximum opportunity offered may be up to 200per cent of salary, as per the policy for existing ExecutiveDirectors.
An LTIP award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a closed period.
Share buy-outs replacement awards The Committees policy is to not provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee believe it necessary to grant awards to replace awards from a previous employer, the Committee will seek tostructure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more favourable than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and structure of any buy-out, the Committee will take into account the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
Where possible, existing arrangements will be used, although the Committee may also make use of the flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make awards without prior shareholder approval in unusual circumstances.
Relocation policies Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel costs, a contribution to Stamp Duty, replacement of non-transferable household items and related taxes incurred.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current .
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard to market practice and corporate governance best practice.
Our policy is that notice periods for Executive Directors should be no greater than 12 months.
Both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer have contracts with notice periods of 12 months from either side.
The notice period for Non-Executive Directors is three months, save in the case of the Chairman whose notice period is six months.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for a review after an initial three-year term with the possibility of annual renewal.
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
When approving any termination payments for a departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst complying withthe contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation orby way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination ofan Executive Directors office or employment and may provide assistance with outplacement costs.
The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Companys policy on payment for loss of office in respect of Executive Directors and any discretion available to the Committee.
Broadly, treatment will depend on the circumstances of departure and in particular whether a leaver is a good leaver.
For a good leaver the following will normally apply: Remuneration element Treatment on cessation Salary, benefits and pension Received for the notice period or payment in lieu of notice.
Statutory redundancy payments as appropriate.
Annual bonus No entitlement to a bonus: however, a pro-rata bonus may be paid following the end of the financial year inwhich they leave.
Deferred bonus Vesting of deferred bonus shares on cessation.
LTIP The rules of the LTIP set out the treatment of good leavers.
In summary, awards will normally vest on the normal vesting date and be subject to pro-rating, although the Committee has discretion to allow awards tovest on cessation and to waive pro-rating where it feels it is appropriate to do so.
The Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interests of the Company.
CHANGE OF CONTROL On a change of control of the Group, the following provisions would apply to Executive Directors: Remuneration element Treatment on change of control Salary, benefits and pension Received for the notice period or payment in lieu of notice if notice is given.
Deferred bonus Vesting of deferred bonus shares.
LTIP The rules of the LTIP set out the treatment on a change of control.
However, in summary, awards will normally vest at the date of change of control and normally be subject to pro-rating, although the Committee has discretion to waive pro-rating where it feels it is appropriate to do so.
60 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Executive Directors also receive life assurance, private health insurance and car allowances.
Both Executive Directors will offer themselves for re-election atthe first Annual General Meeting following the Initial Public Offering in January 2017.
Executive Directors Date Payment Notice ofcurrentcontract in lieu of notice Pension Restrictive covenants Executive Company Ian Sutcliffe 29 January 2016 12 months salary 25% of salary Non-compete 6 months 12 months and benefits and only as a Non-poaching 12 months 12 months cash allowance Non-solicit 12 months Rebecca Worthington 29 January 2016 12 months salary 17.5% of salary Non-compete 6 months 12 months and benefits and only as Non-poaching 12 months 12 months a pension Non-solicit 12 months contribution Non-Executive Directors Date of appointment Date of current letter Unexpired term of to the Board of appointment appointment David Howell 14 December 2015 14 December 2015 2 years, 1 month Richard Adam 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 2 years, 1 month Amanda Burton 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 2 years, 1 month Baroness Sally Morgan 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 2 years, 1 month Federico Canciani 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 2 years, 1 month James Van Steenkiste 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 2 years, 1 month The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to claim out of pocket expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and payment in lieu of notice where notice is served.
They are not entitled to participate in the Companys share, bonus or pension schemes.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees on Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee does receive updates regarding remuneration for employees across the Company.
This is considered when determining the remuneration for the Directors.
DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY BETWEEN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES The policy described above applies to the Groups Executive Directors.
The principles of the policy are designed with due regard to employees across theGroup.
Variable remuneration, particularly the LTIP, is restricted to the most senior employees in the Company who may directly influence Company performance.
However, the Committee is committed to promoting a culture of widespread share ownership, including the provision of an all-employee share scheme.
POLICY IN RESPECT OF EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS It is recognised that external non-executive directorships may be beneficial for both the Company and the Executive Director concerned.
At the discretion ofthe Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee is committed to maintaining a dialogue with our shareholders and we welcome their feedback.
Any feedback received will be considered aspart of the Committees annual review of remuneration policy.
Dialogue with prospective shareholders in the lead-up to the Groups IPO was an intrinsic part of its success and underpinned our remuneration policy.
The share incentive and bonus schemes were designed with simplicity and shareholder preference in mind, and we received no adverse comment from shareholders about our proposed plans schemes.
We have continued our dialogue with shareholders during the year and have had no adverse comments from shareholders about our policy or remuneration payments.
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY Ian Sutclie Rebecca Worthington 2,463 2,500 2,500 2,000 2,000 42% 1,463 1,500 1,500 1,305 20% 42% 31% 1,000 1,000 767 30% 661 20% 32% 500 500 30% 381 100% 51% 27% 100% 50% 26% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed Bonus LTIP The assumptions noted for on-target performance in the graph above are provided for illustration purposes only: Minimum: fixed pay only salary benefits pension.
Target: fixed pay 50 per cent pay-out of the annual bonus entitlement 75 per cent of salary 25 per cent vesting of the LTIP 50 per cent of salary.
Maximum: fixed pay 100 per cent pay-out of the annual bonus 150 per cent of salary 100 per cent vesting of the LTIP 200 per cent of salary.
Salary levels are based on those as at 1 October 2016.
The value of benefits is that disclosed in the single figure for 2015 16.
Pension is 25 per cent of salary excluding bonus for Ian Sutcliffe and 17.5 per cent of salary excluding bonus for Rebecca Worthington.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000 and for simplicity the value of SAYE, in which all employees may participate on the same terms, is excluded.
No account has been taken of share price growth or dividends on share awards.
62 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 000 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ONREMUNERATION SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED The table below sets out a single remuneration figure for Executive and Non-Executive Directors for all qualifying services for the year ended 30September 2016: Annual Long-term 1 2 Salary fees Benefits Pension bonus incentives Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 4 Ian Sutcliffe 2016 488 17 179 731 1,415 2015 433 17 87 607 1,144 3,4 Rebecca Worthington 2016 300 18 53 450 821 2015 50 2 5 70 127 Non-Executive Directors David Howell 2016 135 135 2015 79 79 Richard Adam 2016 52 52 2015 22 22 Amanda Burton 2016 49 49 2015 45 45 Baroness Sally Morgan 2016 45 45 2015 45 45 Federico Canciani 2016 2015 James Van Steenkiste 2016 2015 1.
Benefits include both cash and non-cash benefits, which are valued at their taxable amount.
For Ian Sutcliffe this includes a car allowance 1,325 per month and private medical insurance 1,390 per annum.
For Rebecca Worthington this includes a car allowance 1,325 per month and private medical insurance 1,738 per annum.
The annual bonus relates to performance during the financial year and the cash element is paid in December in the following financial year.
Rebecca Worthington joined the Company in August 2015.
Remuneration reflected in the table above in relation to 2015 reflects the remuneration received in the period from appointment to30September 2015.
The Executive Directors are entitled to retain fees earned from non-executive appointments outside the Company.
Ian Sutcliffe served as a Non-Executive Director of Ashtead Group plc during the yearandreceived 60,000 for his services 2015: 59,000.
Rebecca Worthington served as a Non-Executive Director of Aga Rangemaster Group plc and Hansteen Holdings plc and received 50,060 forherservices.
Further details of each element of the Executive Directors remuneration package are set out on pages 55 to 57.
ANNUAL BONUS TARGETS AND OUTCOMES AUDITED The table below sets out the 2015 16 bonus targets and outcomes relating to the annual bonus figures shown in the single figure in the table above.
TheCommittee was satisfied that these payments fairly reflected Group performance in the year.
The annual bonus targets were set to focus management on the growth of the business in line with our strategy and on improving operational efficiency toincrease operating margins.
Performance required Pay-out level maximum payout 2015 16 measure Threshold Target Maximum Achieved formeasure Adjusted operating profit 60% weighting 109m 115m 121m 122.5m 60% Adjusted operating margin 20% weighting 14.5% 15.0% 15.5% 15.8% 20% Partly Personal performance 20% weighting achieved Achieved Fully met Fully met 20% COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 63 .
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS TARGETS AND OUTCOMES AUDITED CONTINUED During 2016 the Board took the strategic decision to rephase a number of sites, which included sites that are now to be built out, rather than sold.
Thishadthe effect of deferring 5m of profit in relation to those sites from 2016 to 2017.
The Board believed that this change was in the best interests ofshareholders and, accordingly, the Remuneration Committee decided to adjust the threshold, target and maximum bonus targets downwards by 5m forthe year.
The Committee further decided that an equivalent upward adjustment should be made in the 2017 bonus scheme.
The Board believes that the revised targets are no less challenging than the original targets.
The personal performance targets and out-turn for each Director are summarised in the table below: Pay-out level percentage of Performance maximum payout Weighting against target Outcome for measure Ian Sutcliffe The IPO was smoothlydelivered, on time and with good take-up of the offering against a challenging To deliver a successful IPO 33% market backdrop Fully met 33% Relationships with shareholders and others werebuilt, maintained and further developed in To manage external stakeholders effectively for the benefit of the accordance with the Group Group 33% Boards agreedstrategy Fully met 33% A comprehensive plan was developed for all senior Group executive positions To develop and implement a talent management and succession plan which wasapproved by the for key positions inthe Group 33% Nomination Committee Fully met 33% Pay-out level percentage of Performance maximum pay-out Weighting against target Outcome for measure Rebecca Worthington The IPO was smoothlydelivered, on time and with good take-up of the offering against a challenging To deliver a successful IPO 33% market backdrop Fully met 33% A detailed plan was developedwhich was ready for To perform a review of the Groups key systems and processes 33% implementation ahead of plan Fully met 33% All key roles have been successfully recruited during the year and a To develop and implement a talent management and succession plan robust succession plan has for key positions inthe finance function 33% beendeveloped Fully met 33% 64 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL BONUS TARGETS AND OUTCOMES AUDITED CONTINUED Bonus payments vest in a straight line between threshold and maximum.
No bonus is paid if performance falls below the threshold adjusting operating profitmeasure.
For Executive Directors and certain members of the Group Operational Board, one-third of bonus payments are deferred in shares which vest after three years.
The deferred shares have no performance conditions, but the individual must remain employed by the Group.
There was no award under the Deferred Bonus Plan during the year.
The breakdown of the cash and deferred elements of the annual bonus is set out in the table below: Total To be paid in cash To be deferred in shares % of salary % of bonus % of bonus Ian Sutcliffe 731,096 150 487,397 67 243,699 33 Rebecca Worthington 450,000 150 300,000 67 150,000 33 SHARE SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE YEAR AUDITED The Executive Directors were invited to participate in the Companys SAYE scheme at an exercise price of 1.92, a 20 per cent discount to the market price on grant.
As discussed above, the Directors will participate in a Deferred Bonus Plan where a portion of the annual bonus will be deferred in shares.
The table below summarises the awards granted to each Director during the year ended 30 September 2016.
Number outstanding Scheme Date of grant Granted at 30September 2016 Ian Sutcliffe SAYE 16 March 2016 7,500 7,500 Rebecca Worthington SAYE 16 March 2016 7,500 7,500 The Executive Directors were invited to participate in the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in line with our remuneration policy and an awardequivalent to 200per cent of salary was made to each Director.
The table below sets out further details of the Executive Directors participation intheLTIP: There is no minimum value guaranteed on vesting.
Value of Performance Performance 1 Date of grant Award Type No.
of shares theaward % of salary conditions period 2 Ian Sutcliffe 18 February Performance Nil cost 416,667 1,000,000 200 35% target ROCE Three years ending 3 2016 35% target TNAV 30 September 2018 4 30% relative TSR Rebecca Worthington 18 February Performance Nil cost 250,000 600,000 200 35% target ROCE Three years ending 2016 35% target TNAV 30 September 2018 4 30% relative TSR 1.
Calculated based on a closing mid-market share price of 240 pence per share on 17 February 2016.
Relative total shareholder return compared to a comparator group comprised of the FTSE 250 index, excluding investment trusts.
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED VESTING CRITERIA FOR THE 2015 16 LTIP AWARDS The vesting criteria for LTIP awards made in the year ended 30 September 2016 are set out below: Threshold Target Maximum Performance condition 25% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting ROCE: Return on capital employed achieved in the year ending 30 September 2018 27.0% 28.0% 29.0% TNAV: Tangible net asset value as at 30 September 2018 707m 744m 781m For each of the performance conditions outlined above, vesting occurs on a linear basis between threshold and target and between target and maximum.
Threshold Maximum Performance condition 25% vesting 100% vesting Relative TSR: Relative TSR of the Company compared to a comparator group comprised of the FTSE 250, Median of the Upper quartile of the excluding investment trusts measured over the three years ending 30 September 2018 comparatorgroup comparatorgroup The relative TSR performance condition vests on a linear basis between threshold and maximum.
TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AUDITED Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Countryside Pension Plan, a defined contribution arrangement, and Rebecca Worthington is a member of the plan.
Ian Sutcliffe does not participate in the plan and receives cash in lieu of pension benefits.
In respect of ongoing pension benefits, Ian Sutcliffe receives a salary supplement of 25 per cent of salary in lieu of pension.
Rebecca Worthington receives employer pension contributions of 17.5 per cent of salary subject to personal contributions of 5 per cent of salary.
None of the Executive Directors had a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension plan by reference to qualifying services.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED Under the terms of their service contracts, Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company to the value of 200per cent of annual salary within fiveyears of their appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to hold shares in the Company to the value of 50per cent of annual salary within five years of their appointment.
Shareholding Shares held, excluding Total share including connected Outstanding Outstanding outstanding interests at persons, at LTIP share awards at SAYE options at LTIP and SAYE as a 1 Measure 30 September 2016 30 September 2016 30 September 2016 30 September 2016 percentage of salary Ian Sutcliffe 5,880,715 5,456,548 416,667 7,500 1,026 Rebecca Worthington 764,477 506,977 250,000 7,500 279 David Howell 17,000 17,000 Nil Nil 31 Richard Adam 9,445 9,445 Nil Nil 44 Amanda Burton 9,823 9,823 Nil Nil 49 Baroness Sally Morgan 9,444 9,444 Nil Nil 51 Federico Canciani Nil Nil James Van Steenkiste Nil Nil 1.
Assumes closing mid-market share price on 30 September 2016 of 242.8 pence per share.
There has been no change in the Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company between 30 September 2016 and the date of this report.
66 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS OR PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED There were no payments to past Directors or payments for loss of office for Directors of the Company during the year 2015: Nil.
APPLICATION OF THE POLICY IN 2016 17 Base salary Salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 October 2016 with increases of 3per cent awarded in line with the wider workforce.
2015 16 2016 17 % increase Ian Sutcliffe 500,000 515,000 3 Rebecca Worthington 300,000 309,000 3 PENSION AND BENEFITS As described in the policy report, Ian Sutcliffe and Rebecca Worthington will receive a pension contribution of 25per cent and 17.5per cent of base salary respectively.
No other elements of remuneration are pensionable.
Annual bonus Both Executive Directors are eligible to receive up to 150per cent of base salary.
The metrics and their weightings for 2017 are as follows: Metric % of maximum bonus Adjusted operating profit 60 Return on capital employed 20 Personal objectives 20 Note: Details of the targets for each metric are commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed prospectively.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Committee intends to grant both Executive Directors awards at a level of 200per cent of salary shortly following the announcement of the 2016 results.
The proposed performance metrics and their weightings are set out below: Return on Capital Employed Relative Total Shareholder Return Tangible Net Asset Value for year ending 30 September 2019 30% of awards 35% of awards 35% of awards TSR vs Pay-out TNAV in FY19 Pay-out ROCE in FY19 Pay-out FTSE 250 % of element m % of element % % of element Below threshold Below median 0 820 0 28.0 0 Threshold Median 20 820 25 28.0 25 Target 863 50 29.0 50 Maximum Upper quartile 100 906 100 30.0 100 For each performance condition, vesting occurs on a linear basis for performance between each point.
Performance is measured over three financial years to 30 September 2019.
com DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PENSION AND BENEFITS CONTINUED Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The fee structure and levels were reviewed on Admission.
The fees for the Chairman will increase to 175,000 when the shareholding of Oaktree Capital Management falls below 30 per cent.
The fees of other Non-Executive Directors will not be revised again until October 2017.
Asummary of current annual fees is shownbelow: Fee Role 000 Chairman 150 Non-Executive Director 50 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 5 Audit Committee Chairman 5 Remuneration Committee Chairman 5 PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE 150 125 100 75 Countryside Properties FTSE 250 50 February March April May June July August September October 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Group Chief Executive pay table Total remuneration Annual bonus Vesting of LTIP Financial year Name 000 as % of maximum as % of maximum 2015 16 Ian Sutcliffe 1,415 100 Not relevant The annual change in base salary, benefits and annual variable pay is as follows: 1 Increase in base salary Increase in benefits Increase in annual variable pay % % % Group Chief Executive 12.7 None 51.8 Average of all employees 4.8 None 2.4 1 As disclosed in the Companys IPO Prospectus, Ian Sutcliffes base salary increased from 450,000 to 500,000 in advance of the IPO in February 2016.
68 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC Value GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE CONTINUED The relative importance of remuneration in relation to other significant uses of the Groups cash is outlined below: 2016 2015 m m Total staff costs 70.8 61.1 Adjusted profit after tax 73.2 24.8 Taxation paid 12.8 8.0 Interest paid 7.2 5.6 DILUTION The Groups share plans comply with the Investment Associations guidelines on dilution limits of 5 per cent in ten years for discretionary schemes and10per cent in ten years for all schemes.
As at 30 September 2016, the Group has utilised 2.7 per cent of the 10 per cent in ten years limit and 1.8percent of the 5 per cent in ten years limit.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations totheBoard on the Companys policy on executive remuneration, setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance framework of the Groupsremuneration policy and determining the individual remuneration and benefits package of each of the Companys Executive Directors and its Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee will also ensure compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that a remuneration committee should comprise at least three members who are Independent Non-Executive Directors otherthan the Chairman.
ADVISORS During the financial year  LLP PwC and New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon Hewitt plc, provided independent advice totheCommittee: NBS was appointed by the Committee following Admission.
Neither NBS nor Aon provide any other services to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received by NBS in relation to executive remuneration matters during the year was objective and independent.
Terms of engagement are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Both PwC and NBS are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abide by the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
The fees paid to PwC for advice during the year were 109,000 excluding VAT.
There were no fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive remuneration during this financial year.
Theadvice provided primarily related to assisting with the Directors Remuneration Report and communication of the post-IPO remuneration practices.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING As Countryside has not held an AGM since Admission no voting outcomes are available.
Details of remuneration-related voting outcomes will be published in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
APPROVAL This report and policy was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 November 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Amanda Burton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 69
