Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CYBG PLC Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement Our opinion on the financial statements We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit In our opinion: strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we the CYBG PLC Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of the Groups consequently, we do not express an opinion on these individual areas.
In addition, we considered the risk of Management loss for the year then ended: override in each of the below risks.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Key observations communicated to the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Issue Our response to the issue the Boards Audit Committee regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Conduct provision for PPI claims We tested key controls operating within the PPI We concluded that the 30 September complaint handling and recording processes 2016 Balance Sheet provision Please refer to pages 90 to 98 Audit What we have audited which supported PPI complaint data production.
represented a suitable best estimate of Committee report, pages 256 to 259 We found that we could place reliance on these the amount likely to be required to The CYBG PLC financial statements comprise: Provisions for liabilities and charges note, controls.
settle obligations to customers, in line pages 269 to 270 Contingent liabilities and with IAS 37.
We considered a range of commitments note.
We examined the models used by the Directors other potential ultimate cost Group Parent company to determine an updated best estimate of the outcomes by challenging key The Group has material provisions relating provision for mis-sold PPI.
Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 Company Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2016 assumptions made by the Directors.
to its conduct towards its past and present September 2016 customers relating to PPI sales.
We assessed the appropriateness of PPI The provision remains sensitive to provision model assumptions, including complaint Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended variations in key assumptions, such as In August 2016, the FCA published a volumes, payouts per claim, uphold rates and year ended 30 September 2016 30 September 2016 future complaint volumes and further consultation CP16 20 on PPI complaint processing costs, which were complaint processing costs, where complaint handling, including a proposed Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2016 Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 30 informed by the Groups historic experience.
alternative assumptions would result in public awareness campaign and time-bar on September 2016 different ultimate costs to those future complaints.
We tested the clerical accuracy of the Directors Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year Related notes 40 to 46 of the financial statements provided for by the Directors.
We provision calculation and sensitivity analysis.
Significant judgements and assumptions are ended 30 September 2016 concluded that these differences were required to be made by the Directors in In evaluating the Directors provision within a reasonable range of outcomes Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 30 relation to the timing, volume and quantum assumptions, we examined correspondence in the context of the degree of September 2016 of future complaints and subsequent during the year between the Group and the uncertainty as disclosed by the redress payments, and the costs of FCA, and considered regulatory Related notes 1 to 39 to the financial statements Directors within Notes 3 and 27 to administering these complaints.
The effects pronouncements, such as CP16 20.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to of these judgements are material, so this compared the Directors assumptions to our the financial statements.
These have been cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
was considered to be a significant audit risk.
own expectations based on the Groups historical experience, current trends and our industry knowledge.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement - Conduct provision for PPI claims.
- Recoverability of deferred tax asset.
- Revenue recognition effective interest method accounting.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group and Parent.
Our Group audit scope included all CYBG PLC subsidiaries.
Materiality Overall Group materiality was 17m, which represents 0.5% of shareholders equity.
200 201 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CYBG PLC SME lending impairment provisions We assessed and tested controls over We concluded to the Audit Revenue recognition Effective interest We assessed the appropriateness of key We concluded to the Audit impairment calculations and the generation of Committee that the impairment method assumptions used within the Groups effective Committee that the effective interest Please refer to pages 90 to 98 Audit portfolio data for use in these calculations.
models and assumptions employed by interest model, primarily the average loan life adjustments recognised in interest Committee report, and page 247 For certain product fees, the Group These controls included those covering the the Group were reasonable as at 30 assumption, which we assessed against income were appropriately derived.
Impairment provisions on credit exposures operates a model to recognise fee income identification and assessment of potentially September 2016 and that these underlying loan data, our knowledge of market note.
included within interest income under the We also concluded that the impaired loans, the transfer of data from source resulted in impairment provisions that conditions and observed practice in the UK effective interest method.
The effective assumptions made by the Directors systems to impairment models, and the were appropriately estimated.
The majority of the Groups non-retail interest method spreads the recognition of were reasonable in the context of the calculation of specific impairment provisions.
We concluded that the disclosures lending portfolio relates to small and product fee income over the life of a We performed data integrity testing on the key Groups lending portfolios and current determined that we could rely on these controls presented were in compliance with medium sized enterprises SMEs which can financial instrument, as these are in sources of information feeding the effective observable customer behaviours.
for the purposes of our audit.
be vulnerable to both domestic and foreign substance an integral part of the overall interest calculation.
This involved sample testing market volatility.
We performed loan file testing on a sample of We independently determined a range yield.
data from business systems to the loan data non-performing loans to assess whether the of appropriate outcomes for the level used in the model and vice-versa.
Estimating the Groups collective and Effective interest models are sensitive to specific provisions held by the Group were of incurred but not reported losses specific provisioning is subjective, requires judgements about the expected lives of the We examined deferral and amortisation sufficient and appropriate.
Our approach existing in the Groups loan portfolio.
the Directors to exercise significant product portfolios to which they relate.
effective interest journals to ensure that the included the use of our own valuation specialists The Directors post model adjustments judgement, and incorporates the use of Due to the complexity of calculations, the revenue deferred and amortised over the life of to independently assess key assumptions resided within our range of acceptable various assumptions.
degree of judgement exercised by the the underlying loans was appropriate and aligned underpinning a sample of collateral values used outcomes.
Directors in respect of forecast future cash with the effective interest model output.
Due to the materiality of the provisions and in provision calculations.
We challenged the judgemental flows, and the different products for which level of judgment involved, this is considered We evaluated the completeness of SME loans determination and tested the fees are recognised, this is considered a a significant audit risk.
assessed for impairment by the Directors and calculation of a sample of specific significant audit risk.
examined key lending exposures where no impairment provisions and concluded impairment provisions were held.
that these were derived appropriately.
We tested the collective impairment provision Our application of materiality This level of audit materiality provided the basis for: model by examining the logic of the model calculations, the accuracy of data inputs, and the We apply the concept of materiality in both planning and determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk appropriateness of key assumptions and loan performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified assessment procedures: ratings used within the model.
misstatements on our audit, in the financial statements and identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement: We challenged identified post model on forming our audit opinion.
and, adjustments for completeness and tested material overlays for appropriateness of determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit Audit materiality methodology and accuracy of calculation.
We define audit materiality as the magnitude of an omission Recoverability of deferred tax asset We assessed the accuracy of underlying We agreed with the Directors or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could Performance materiality deferred tax computations and recoverability decision to record a valuation reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Please refer to pages 90 to 98 Audit calculations using our specialist tax audit team.
allowance against the deferred tax We define performance materiality as the level of materiality of the users of the financial statements.
Committee report, and pages 253 to 254 We evaluated the accuracy of the Directors asset as at 30 September 2016 such that we use at the individual account or balance level.
It is set Deferred tax note.
calculations against our knowledge of that a deferred tax asset has not been at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the Audit materiality provides a basis for determining the nature substantively enacted UK tax legislation.
recognised in respect of carried The Group has recognised deferred tax probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and forward losses expected to be assets of 156m.
The recoverability of the and extent of our audit procedures.
When establishing our We challenged the key assumptions undetected misstatements exceeds audit materiality.
recovered beyond the Groups current deferred tax asset is substantiated through overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of underpinning future taxable profit projections corporate planning horizon.
forecasting future taxable profits against used in the Directors recoverability assessment.
uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material which the deferred tax asset is expected to On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our We considered the consistency of these We concluded to the Audit for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined audit be recoverable.
The uncertainty of forecasts with Board approved financial plans Committee that we agreed with the assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our materiality for the Group to be 17m 2015: 15m which recoverability increases as the period of and analysed the Directors historical budgeting conclusion that suitable future taxable judgement was that performance materiality should be set at utilisation of deferred tax against future was 0.5% of the total equity attributable to owners of the accuracy as an indicator of forecasting reliability.
profit forecasts supported the 50% 2015: 75% of our audit materiality, namely 8.5m 2014: profits lengthens.
The reason for selecting this recoverability and therefore We compared deferred tax asset recoverability 11.25m.
50% is at the conservative end of the normal range recognition of the deferred tax asset measure as the basis for our audit materiality consideration is Material changes to UK tax legislation were determinations to the Groups previously applied we use which is 50% to 75%.
Whilst our previous experience recognised in compliance with IFRS by substantively enacted during the year and that the Group was loss making in recent financial periods.
principles, particularly regarding recoverability the Group as at 30 September 2016. as auditors of the Clydesdale Bank Group has not indicated a the changes further restrict the Groups Given the importance of equity to the Groups solvency and time horizons.
ability to utilise losses carried forward to high likelihood of material financial statement inaccuracies, we regulatory capital resources, we judged equity to be the most relieve future taxation.
have set performance materiality at this conservative relevant basis for setting audit materiality.
Due to the materiality of the deferred tax percentage given 2016 is CYBG PLCs first year reporting as asset and the inherent uncertainty of its a publicly listed company.
recoverability, this is considered a significant audit risk for the year ended 30 September 2016.
202 203 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CYBG PLC Reporting threshold In addition, we read all of the financial and non-financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify Our reporting threshold is defined as the amount below ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual We have no material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements Ireland report is: exceptions which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly and to identify any information that is apparently materially reporting to report trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of - apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the acquired in the course of performing our audit: or 0.85m 2015: 0.75m, which is set at 5% of our audit audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material - otherwise misleading.
materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our implications for our report.
knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model An overview of the scope of the audit light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we our opinion.
As highlighted, audit materiality for the financial statements as communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Respective responsibilities of the Directors and of ourselves Act 2006 exceptions - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit reporting to report as auditor All of the Groups functions and operations were subject to a have not been received from branches not visited by us: or full scope audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility - the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Statement set out on pages 136 and 137, the Directors are Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies - certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Act 2006 is unmodified - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no In our opinion: review exceptions financial statements in accordance with applicable law and - the Directors statements in relation to going concern, set out on page 136, and longer-term viability, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be requirements to report set out on page 38: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those audited has been properly prepared in accordance with - the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 38 relating to the Companys compliance standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the Companies Act 2006: and with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: - the information given in the Strategic Report and the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Statement on the Directors Assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity Directors Report for the financial year for which the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Ireland attention to in relation to: nothing financial statements: reporting material to so that we might state to the companys members those - the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of add or to the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future matters we are required to state to them in an auditors - the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have draw performance, solvency or liquidity: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent been prepared in accordance with applicable legal attention to - the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility requirements managed or mitigated: to anyone other than the company and the companys - the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any the opinions we have formed.
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic from the date of approval of the financial statements: and What does an audit of financial statements involve?
Report or Directors Report - the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: George Reid Senior Statutory Auditor the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor made by the Directors: and Edinburgh 21 November 2016 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The maintenance and integrity of the CYBG PLC web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
204 205 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C O N T E N T S C ON S OL I D AT E D INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement 207 23.
Deferred tax 253 Note 2016 2015 for the year ended 30 September 2016 m m Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 208 24.
Other assets 255 Interest income and similar income 1,101 1,110 Consolidated balance sheet 209 25.
Due to other banks 255 Interest expense and similar charges 295 323 5 Net interest income 806 787 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 210 26.
Due to customers 255 Gains less losses on financial instruments at fair value 9 2 Consolidated statement of cash flows 211 27.
Provisions for liabilities and charges 256 Other operating income 182 238 1.
Debt securities in issue 260 6 Non-interest income 191 240 Total operating income 997 1,027 2.
Retirement benefit obligations 261 Personnel expenses 280 266 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 226 30.
Called up share capital 266 Depreciation and amortisation expense 88 83 Other operating and administrative expenses 468 868 5.
Total equity 267 7 Total operating and administrative expenses before impairment losses 881 1,234 6.
Contingent liabilities and commitments 269 Operating profit loss before impairment losses 116 207 7.
Notes to the statement of cash flows 271 17 Impairment losses on credit exposures 39 78 Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 77 285 8.
Equity based compensation 272 Loss for the year 164 229 10.
Fair value of financial instruments 276 Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 206 247 11.
Cash and balances with central banks 236 38.
Pillar 3 disclosures 280 Profit attributable to other equity holders 42 18 Loss for the year attributable to equity holders 164 229 12.
Events after the balance sheet date 280 10 Basic loss per share pence 22.5 28.7 13.
Financial assets available for sale 240 Company balance sheet 281 10 Diluted loss per share pence 22.4 28.7 14.
Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value 241 Company statement of changes in equity 282 Comparative disclosures have been amended to conform with the current periods presentation as detailed in note 1.
All material items dealt with in arriving at the profit loss before tax for the above years relate to continuing activities.
Derivative financial instruments 242 Company statement of cash flows 283 The notes on pages 212 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Loans and advances to customers 245 40.
Impairment provisions on credit exposures 247 41.
Company investments in controlled 286 entities and associates 19.
Company debt securities in issue 289 20.
Company called up share capital 289 21.
Investments in controlled entities and associates 251 45.
Company fair value of financial instruments 290 206 207 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 CYBG.
COM ANNUAL-RESULTS-2016 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF C ON S OL I D AT E D COMPREHENSIVE INCOME BALANCE SHEET Note Note 2016 m 2015 m 2016 2015 as at 30 September 2016 for the year ended 30 September 2016 m m Assets 11 Cash and balances with central banks 5,955 6,431 Loss for the year 164 229 12 Due from related entities - 786 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Due from other banks 952 128 Change in cash flow hedge reserve 13 Financial assets available for sale 1,731 1,462 Gains during the year 105 21 14 Other financial assets at fair value 750 1,097 15 Transfers to the income statement 1 18 Derivative financial instruments 585 285 16 Loans and advances to customers 29,202 27,482 Taxation thereon 25 - Due from customers on acceptances 4 4 79 3 Current tax assets 2 4 Change in available for sale reserve 19 Property, plant and equipment 99 109 Gains during the year 29 5 20 Investment properties 22 32 21 Transfer to the income statement 8 - Investments in controlled entities and associates - 2 22 Intangible assets 256 265 Taxation thereon 6 1 23 Deferred tax assets 183 389 15 4 29 Defined benefit pension assets - 52 Total items that may be reclassified to the income statement 94 7 24 Other assets 188 177 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Total assets 39,929 38,705 29 Liabilities Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 179 36 25 Due to other banks 1,309 393 Taxation thereon 43 7 14 Other financial liabilities at fair value 48 67 Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 136 29 15 Derivative financial instruments 598 534 Other comprehensive losses net of tax 42 22 26 Due to customers 27,090 26,407 Total comprehensive losses for the year net of tax 206 251 Liabilities on acceptances 4 4 27 Provisions for liabilities and charges 852 1,006 Total comprehensive losses attributable to ordinary shareholders 248 269 12 Due to related entities - 998 Total comprehensive income attributable to other equity holders 42 18 28 Debt securities in issue 4,501 3,766 Total comprehensive losses attributable to equity holders 206 251 29 Retirement benefit obligations 79 4 23 Deferred tax liabilities 27 10 Comparative disclosures have been amended to conform with the current periods presentation as detailed in note 1.
30 Other liabilities 2,210 2,073 The notes on pages 212 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Total liabilities 36,718 35,262 Equity 31,32 Share capital 88 223 32 Other equity instruments 450 450 32 Share premium - 670 32 Capital reorganisation reserve 839 - 32 Merger reserve 633 - 32 Other reserves 100 4 32 Retained earnings 2,779 2,096 Total equity 3,211 3,443 Total liabilities and equity 39,929 38,705 The notes on pages 212 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 November 2016 and were signed on its behalf by David Duffy, Chief Executive Officer Ian Smith, Chief Financial Officer CYBG PLC.
Registered number: 09595911 208 209 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT CHANGES IN EQUITY OF CASH FLOWS Note 2016 2015 for the year ended 30 September 2016 m m Operating activities Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 77 285 Adjustments for: 34 Non-cash or non-operating items included in profit loss before tax 643 679 34 Changes in operating assets 2,285 1,494 34 Changes in operating liabilities 1,587 1,983 Interest received 1,101 1,257 Interest paid 200 418 Tax repayment received - 5 Tax received paid - group relief 4 20 Net cash used in provided by operating activities 359 349 Cash flows used in investing activities Interest received 11 8 Proceeds from sale or maturity of investments 101 - 1 Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 17 17 1 Purchase of tangible fixed assets 22 19 Purchases of investments 357 269 Proceeds from sale of available for sale investments 56 - Purchase and development of intangible assets 99 119 Net cash used in investing activities 293 382 Cash flows from financing activities Interest received 1 3 Interest paid 98 122 31 Proceeds from ordinary shares issued - 1,020 Proceeds from other equity instruments issued 450 150 Repurchase of other equity instruments 457 - 12 Redemption of medium term notes - 427 12 Repurchase of subordinated debt 474 591 18 Redemption, principal repayment on residential mortgage backed securities and 1,029 921 covered bonds 18 Issuance of residential mortgage backed securities and covered bonds 750 1,207 28 Issuance of subordinated debt 475 - Net decrease in amounts due from related entities 786 686 Net decrease in amounts due to related entities 106 512 9 AT1 distributions 35 18 Equity based compensation 2 - Net cash provided by financing activities 265 475 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 387 442 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 6,337 5,895 2 34 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 5,950 6,337 1 Tangible fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, investment properties and property inventory.
2 Cash and cash equivalents is cash and balances with central banks less mandatory deposits plus cash equivalents within other assets, less due to other banks, due to related entities and other liabilities.
The notes on pages 212 to 280 form an integral part of these financial statements.
210 211 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Note Share Capital Capital Equity based Asset Available Cash flow for the year ended Share premium redemption reorganisation Merger Other equity compensation revaluation for sale hedge Retained Total 30 September 2016 capital account reserve reserve reserve instruments reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m m m m As at 1 October 2014 1,882 - 100 - - 300 2 2 8 16 260 2,538 Loss for the year - - - - - - - - - - 229 229 Other comprehensive income losses, net of tax - - - - - - - - 4 3 29 22 Total comprehensive income losses for the year - - - - - - - - 4 3 258 251 AT1 distribution paid net of tax - - - - - - - - - - 14 14 Share capital reduction 2,009 - - - - - - - - - 2,009 - Capital note issued - - - - - 150 - - - - - 150 Shares issued 350 670 - - - - - - - - - 1,020 Transfer from capital redemption reserve - - 100 - - - - - - - 100 - Transfer to equity based compensation reserve - - - - - - 1 - - - 1 - Equity based compensation expensed - - - - - - 7 - - - - 7 Equity based compensation settled - - - - - - 7 - - - - 7 31,32 As at 30 September 2015 223 670 - - - 450 3 2 12 13 2,096 3,443 Loss for the year - - - - - - - - - - 164 164 Other comprehensive income losses, net of tax - - - - - - - - 15 79 136 42 Total comprehensive income losses for the year - - - - - - - - 15 79 300 206 9 AT1 distribution paid net of tax - - - - - - - - - - 28 28 Insertion of new parent company 223 670 - 893 - - - - - - - - Share for share exchange 1,099 - - 1,732 633 - - - - - - - Share capital reduction 1,011 - - - - - - - - - 1,011 - Capital note repurchase net of tax - - - - - 450 - - - - 5 455 Capital note issued - - - - - 450 - - - - - 450 Transfer from equity based compensation reserve - - - - - - 4 - - - 4 - Transfer from asset revaluation reserve - - - - - - - 1 - - 1 - Equity based compensation expensed - - - - - - 5 - - - - 5 Equity based compensation settled - - - - - - 2 - - - - 2 31,32 As at 30 September 2016 88 - - 839 633 450 6 1 27 66 2,779 3,211 Comparative disclosures have been amended to conform with the current periods presentation as detailed in note 1.
Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statement.
The profit after tax attributable to other equity includes the Groups risk management objectives and the applied by the Group in preparing these financial statements.
Basis of preparation Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its holders of 42m 2015: 18m is partly offset in reserves by a The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15: Reporting entity tax credit attributable to ordinary shareholders of 7m on AT1 capital.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers: with this The Company is incorporated in the UK and registered in dividends 2015: 4m and a 1m tax credit attributable to exception, none of the amendments listed are expected to England and Wales.
On 8 February 2016, the Company ordinary shareholders on the refinancing of the AT1 debt In assessing the Groups going concern position as at 30 have a significant impact for the Group: became the new holding company for the CYBI Group by way 2015: Nil.
September 2016, the Directors have considered a number of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued of a share for share exchange and was unconditionally listed factors, including the current balance sheet position, the May 2014 and effective for financial years beginning on or on the London Stock Exchange.
Accounting policies principal and emerging risks which could impact the after 1 January 2018.
This standard establishes principles transaction was effected by creating a new parent that is itself performance of the Group and the Groups strategic and for reporting information about the nature, timing, and The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these not a business, the transaction is considered to be outside the financial plan which includes future projections of profitability, consolidated financial statements are consistent with, and are a uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
It has therefore been capital adequacy, liquidity and funding.
The assessment entitys contracts with customers.
The standard provides a continuation of, those policies followed in the preparation of accounted for using the pooling of interest method as a concluded that, for the foreseeable future, the Group has the CYBI annual report and consolidated financial statements single, principles based five step model to be applied to all continuation of the existing group.
The consolidated financial sufficient capital to support its operations: has a funding and contracts with customers.
In April 2016, the International for the year ended 30 September 2015.
Newly applicable statements for the year ended 30 September 2016 comprise liquidity base which is strong, robust and well managed with accounting policies in relation to earnings per share and Accounting Standards Board IASB issued Clarifications to the Company and its controlled entities together the Group.
future capacity: and has expectations that performance will IFRS 15 to address certain implementation issues identified updates to the Groups policies on equity based payments, the The Groups controlled entities are listed in note 42.
The continue to improve as the Groups strategy is executed.
equity based compensation reserve and the presentation of and provide additional transitional relief options.
comparative figures provided are those of the CYBI Group.
tax on AT1 distributions are detailed in the relevant sections Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of As a result of the assessment, the Directors have a reasonable within this note and note 1.
Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, Statement of compliance expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate issued May 2014 and effective for financial years beginning The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been resources to continue in operational existence for the Basis of consolidation on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 16 and IAS 38 both prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as foreseeable future and therefore believe that the Group is well establish the principle for the basis of depreciation and Controlled entities are all entities including structured entities applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies placed to manage its risks successfully in line with its business to which the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable amortisation being the expected pattern of consumption Act 2006. model and strategic aims.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt of the future economic benefits of an asset.
This returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial amendment provides clarification that the use of certain to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
An The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the statements.
revenue based methods to calculate depreciation are not assessment of control is performed on an ongoing basis.
For year ended 30 September 2016 were authorised for issue by appropriate.
details of controlled structured entities refer to note 21.
For the Board of Directors on 21 November 2016.
Restatement of comparative amounts - Presentation of tax details of investments in subsidiaries and associates refer to Annual Improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 Cycle, issued on AT1 distributions note 42.
September 2014 and effective for financial years beginning Basis of measurement In comparative periods, the tax deduction associated with AT1 on or after 1 January 2016.
The IASB have made distributions was recognised in the income statement rather The financial information has been prepared under the Controlled entities are consolidated from the date on which amendments to the following standards that are relevant than directly in equity.
Whilst this approach is permitted under historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of control is established by the Group until the date that control to the Group and Company: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets IFRS, it is not aligned with other UK banks.
Accordingly, the land and buildings, investment properties, financial assets ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, IFRS 7 accounting policy has been revised to require recognition of available for sale and certain other financial assets and liabilities account for business combinations other than those under Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 19 Employee the AT1 distributions directly in equity, net of any tax relief.
at fair value through profit or loss including all derivative common control.
Balances and transactions between entities Benefits and IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting.
This has resulted in a restatement of comparative amounts as contracts.
within the Group and any unrealised gains and losses arising Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative, issued described below.
from those transactions are eliminated in full upon December 2014 and effective for financial years beginning Presentation of risk offsetting and maturity disclosures consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements have been on or after 1 January 2016.
This includes narrow scope The impact on the Groups result for the year ended 30 Certain disclosures required under IFRS 7 Financial prepared using uniform accounting policies.
amendments providing clarification to existing IAS 1 September 2015 was a decrease in the tax credit by 4m instruments: disclosures and IAS 1 Presentation of financial Presentation of Financial Statements requirements.
from 60m to 56m, increasing the loss for the year from statements have been included within the audited sections of New accounting standards and interpretations adopted 225m to 229m.
There was a corresponding decrease in the the Risk Report.
Where information is marked as audited, it is during the year There are a number of other standards and amendments amounts taken to Retained earnings in relation to AT1 incorporated into these financial statements by this cross The Group has not adopted any new or amended accounting relevant to the Group that are not available for adoption in the distributions by 4m from 18m to 14m.
In addition, note 8 reference and it is covered by the Independent Auditors standard or interpretation in the current year.
EU, nor effective at 30 September 2016 and have not been Taxation has been impacted by the restatement.
applied by the Group in preparing these financial statements.
been no impact on the Groups total assets, net assets or New accounting standards and interpretations not yet The most significant of these pronouncements is IFRS 9 closing reserves as a result of the change.
Going concern adopted Financial Instruments issued July 2014 and effective for The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
An The following standards and amendments are relevant to the The tax credit associated with AT1 distributions is now to affect its future development, performance and position are update on the Groups implementation of IFRS 9 is provided Group and were available for adoption in the European recognised directly in equity rather than in the income set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, the Risk Report overleaf.
Union EU, but are not mandatory and have not been 212 213 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Update on the implementation of IFRS 9 Classification and measurement The area of IFRS 9s impairment criteria where the greatest and the transformation and alignment of existing SME models judgement is required relates to when financial assets display a developed for all products and portfolios.
The model CYBG implementation strategy and approach An initial assessment of the classification and measurement significant deterioration in credit quality since initial recognition development programme for IFRS 9 will run concurrently with requirements of IFRS 9 has been undertaken with the main The Group continues to work on its implementation strategy and subsequently move from a 12 month ECL calculation the IRB Programme.
The Group will look to apply appropriate issue arising being the classification of financial assets in the for IFRS 9, which is expected to receive EU endorsement by Stage 1 to a non-credit impaired lifetime ECL calculation and proportional segmentation to the modelling approach for IAS 39 category of available for sale AFS that does not exist the end of the 2016 calendar year, and has mobilised an IFRS Stage 2. the retail portfolio of mortgages, personal loans, credit cards under IFRS 9.
9 project team to ensure implementation in line with the and current accounts.
For the SME portfolio, the standard and other evolving regulatory guidance and industry The Group has reflected on what a significant increase in segmentation that exists within the Groups internal rating IFRS 9 simplifies the classification of financial assets by reducing practice.
The project has representation from both the system already meets the requirements of IFRS 9. credit risk since initial recognition means in terms of both retail the number of categories to just three amortised cost, fair Finance and Risk functions, with a Steering Committee and and SME portfolios and determined that there is no single value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and fair formal Project Control Board in place to provide the factor that influences this decision: rather, a combination of The Groups loan commitments and financial guarantee value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The final classification is necessary oversight.
As noted in the Corporate Governance different criteria require to be assessed before concluding that contracts will be assessed under IFRS 9s impairment criteria as based on a combination of the Groups business model and the Report the Board has also established a sub committee to a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition has part of the overall retail and non-retail impairment contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
The oversee the implementation of IFRS 9 and the application of taken place.
For example, in SME portfolios, a combination of methodologies.
In addition, the Group will also apply the single option to designate a financial asset at FVTPL in IAS 39 is IRB to regulatory capital.
the Groups internal rating system and other qualitative factors impairment principles introduced by IFRS 9 to all other financial largely retained in IFRS 9, with IFRS 9 also affording a further such as watch status and approaching financial difficulty assets identified by the Group under the amortised cost and option to designate certain equity instruments at FVOCI The primary objectives of the project include: defining status could be used in making this determination.
For retail FVOCI classification categories.
instead of accounting for these as FVTPL.
accounting policies and approaches: co-ordinating with the portfolios, the proposed approach will move accounts to a Groups IRB Programme to ensure risk models meet the lifetime ECL when the residual lifetime PD has deteriorated The Group will continue to refine the ECL approach under The majority of the Groups financial assets under IAS 39 relate required specifications: delivery of data and system changes: since origination by a pre-determined threshold, IFRS 9 and provide an update on the progress made at each to loans and advances to customers and are currently classified and updating the credit provisioning operating model and supplemented with other credit quality indicators.
The 30 reporting period until implementation.
This is in line with the under loans and receivables and held at amortised cost: the overall governance framework.
Key decisions on the DPD presumption for a significant increase in credit risk since approach recommended by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Group expects these will remain in the amortised cost impairment requirements of IFRS 9 involve appropriate origination that exists within IFRS 9 will not be rebutted, and Force in their ECL report in November 2015. category on implementation of IFRS 9. internal stakeholder consultation: rigorous internal review will form part of the overall assessment.
The Group will not performed by senior representation from both Finance and take advantage of the low credit risk exemption offered in Hedging The Group is still considering the classification options that are Risk Management: external review and challenge exercises: IFRS 9.
The low credit risk exemption allows entities not to available for other financial assets including Treasury assets and Until the guidance on hedging accounting is finalised by the and presentation of the adopted impairment accounting assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit other debt instruments currently held as AFS.
IASB, the Group will look to exercise the accounting policy policy decisions to the project oversight committees.
risk in a financial asset since initial recognition where the choice afforded by IFRS 9 and continue to apply the hedge financial asset is deemed as being of low credit risk at the Impairment including modelling development accounting requirements of IAS 39.
The Group is assessing the The Groups intention is to perform an end-to-end parallel reporting date.
The Group will assess all financial assets under revised hedge accounting disclosures required by the run during the year commencing 1 October 2017, capturing The impairment of financial assets under IFRS 9 is based on an the same criteria.
For both retail and SME portfolios, the amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the IFRS 9 requirements for classification, measurement and expected credit loss ECL model which replaces the current Groups forbearance programmes will also play a part in will look to implement these where appropriate.
The most significant of these will be the incurred loss methodology under IAS 39 and is the area where determining a significant increase in credit risk since initial impairment requirements of the standard, which will be IFRS 9 will have the most significant impact.
Other standards and amendments closely monitored during the parallel run phase, to compare the results with expectations and to ensure that the Groups IFRS 9 requires a 12 month Stage 1 ECL calculation where Listed below are the other standards and amendments The Group will look to align the accounting and regulatory initial proposed staging criteria produces an impairment relevant to the Group that are not available for adoption in financial assets have not experienced a significant increase in definition of default for IFRS 9 in both retail and SME allowance which accurately reflects the credit risk provision credit risk since origination: and a lifetime ECL calculation the EU, nor effective at 30 September 2016 and that have portfolios.
As part of this alignment, a review of the Groups in those financial assets that will be subject to a lifetime not therefore been applied by the Group in preparing these where it has been demonstrated that there has been a forbearance strategies will be necessary and where a total or expected loss calculation.
significant increase in credit risk Stage 2 and 3.
The Group is currently assessing the partial change outside the normal terms and conditions of a impact of these standards and amendments.
ECL calculation is further refined into separate stages contract is identified, this may come under the Groups revised The Groups current view on the three phases of IFRS 9 depending on whether the financial asset is credit impaired or definition of default.
Other forbearance measures undertaken IFRS 16 Leases issued on 13 January 2016 and effective classification and measurement, impairment and hedging is not.
When a financial asset is credit impaired Stage 3, the by the Group that do not fall under the definition of default for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. as follows: resultant methodology to calculate the loss allowance under would form part of the assessment of a significant increase in This standard replaces IAS 17: Leases and will result in most IFRS 9 uses the same criteria as the Groups IAS 39 credit risk since origination and attract a lifetime ECL leases being brought onto a lessees balance sheet under a methodology for specific provisions, however, it is anticipated calculation under Stage 2. single lease model, removing the distinction between that not all financial assets which are classified as Stage 3 will finance and operating leases.
The standard requires lessees already have been subject to a specific provision under IAS 39.
The Group will look to leverage off the model development to recognise a right of use, asset and a liability for future payments arising from a lease contract.
Lessor accounting work that is necessary under the IRB Programme as far as practically possible for IFRS 9 purposes with new retail models requirements remain aligned to the current approach under IAS 17.
214 215 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Foreign currency non-monetary items measured at historical Fees and commissions Taxation Assets for Unrealised Losses issued on 19 January 2016 cost are translated at the date of the transaction.
Foreign Fees and commissions not integral to the effective interest Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 currency non-monetary items measured at fair value will be rate, arising from services provided to customers and third and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income January 2017.
The amendments clarify the requirements translated at the date when the fair value is determined.
parties, are recognised on an accruals basis when the service statement except to the extent that it is related to items on the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised Foreign exchange differences are recognised directly in equity has been provided or on completion of the underlying recognised in equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in losses.
for non-monetary items where any component of associated transaction to which the fee relates.
gains or losses is recognised directly in equity.
Foreign exchange Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure initiative issued on 29 differences arising from non-monetary items, whereby the January 2016 and effective for financial years beginning on Gains less losses on financial instruments at fair value through Income tax expense or revenue is the tax payable or receivable associated gains or losses are recognised in the income or after 1 January 2017.
The amendments to IAS 7: profit or loss on the current years taxable income based on the applicable statement, are also recognised in the income statement.
Statement of Cash Flows require disclosures that enable tax rate adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and Gains less losses on financial instruments at fair value users of the financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities.
through profit or loss comprise fair value gains and losses Revenue recognition liabilities arising from an entitys financing activities.
from three distinct activities: Net interest income Current tax Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement derivatives classified as held for trading: of Share-based Payment Transactions issued on 20 June Interest income is reflected in the income statement using the Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the hedged assets, liabilities and derivatives designated in 2016 and effective for financial years beginning on or after effective interest method.
taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or hedge relationships: and 1 January 2017.
The amendments provide guidance on substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value The effective interest method is a method of calculating adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
measurement of cash-settled equity based payments: amortisation using the effective interest rate of a financial asset classification of equity based payments with a net or financial liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that Deferred tax For trading derivatives, the full change in fair value is settlement feature for withholding tax obligations: and exactly discounts the estimated stream of future cash Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on temporary accounting for modifications to a equity based payment recognised inclusive of interest income and expense arising on payments or receipts over the expected life of the financial differences arising between the tax bases of assets and those derivatives.
However, in cases where a trading derivative that change the classification from cash-settled to instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated equity-settled.
is economically hedging an interest bearing financial asset or carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates liability designated at fair value through profit or loss, the and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by interest income and expense attributable to the derivative is When calculating the effective interest rate, the cash flows are the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the Foreign currency recognised within net interest income and not as part of the estimated considering all contractual terms of the financial related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability Functional and presentation currency fair value movement of the trading derivative.
instrument e. g. prepayment, call and similar options excluding is settled.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the future credit losses.
Groups entities are measured using the currency of the Hedged assets, liabilities and derivatives designated in hedge Deferred tax assets are only recognised for temporary primary economic environment in which the entity operates relationships result in the recognition in income of i fair value The calculation of the effective interest rate includes all fees differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits if it is the functional currency.
The consolidated financial movements on both the hedged item and hedging derivative and points paid or received between parties to the contract probable that future taxable amounts will arise against which statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, which is in a fair value hedge relationship the net of which represents that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, those temporary differences and losses may be utilised.
also the Groups presentation currency, rounded to the hedge ineffectiveness, and ii hedge ineffectiveness on cash transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts.
Where nearest million pounds sterling m unless otherwise stated.
it is not possible to reliably estimate the cash flows or the Dividends on ordinary shares expected life of a financial instrument or group of financial Final dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a liability Transactions and balances Other assets and liabilities at fair value comprise fair value instruments, the contractual cash flows over the full and deducted from equity when they are approved by the movements on those items designated as fair value through Initially, at the date of a foreign currency transaction, the contractual term of the financial instrument or group of Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are deducted from profit or loss.
Group records an asset, liability, expense or revenue arising financial instruments are used.
equity when they are declared and no longer at the discretion from a transaction using the end of day spot exchange rate of the Company.
Interest income and interest expense on hedged assets and between the functional and foreign currency on the Loan origination and commitment fees are recognised as liabilities and financial assets and liabilities designated as fair transaction date.
revenue within the effective interest rate calculation.
When the Dividends for the year that are approved after the balance value through profit or loss are recognised in net interest non-utilisation of a commitment fee occurs, this is taken as sheet date are disclosed as an event after the balance sheet income.
Subsequently, at each reporting date, the Group translates revenue upon expiry of the agreed commitment period.
related administration and service fees are recognised as foreign currency monetary items at the closing spot rate.
Dividend income Foreign exchange differences arising on translation or revenue over the period of service.
Earnings per share settlement of monetary items are recognised in the income Dividend income is recorded in the income statement on an Basic earnings per share is calculated by taking the profit statement during the year in which the gains or losses arise.
Direct loan origination costs are netted against loan origination accruals basis when the Groups right to receive the dividend attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company fees and the net amount recognised as revenue over the life of has been established.
and dividing this by the weighted-average number of ordinary the loan as an adjustment of yield.
All other loan related costs are expensed as incurred.
216 217 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS shares outstanding during the period.
Any own shares held in Purchases and sales of financial assets classified within fair value designating the instruments will eliminate or significantly Fair value measurement employee benefit trusts are excluded from this calculation.
through profit or loss are recognised on trade date, being the reduce measurement or recognition inconsistencies i. e. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell date that the Group is committed to purchase or sell a financial eliminate an accounting mismatch that would otherwise an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction Diluted earnings per share requires that the weighted average asset.
arise from measuring related assets or liabilities on a between market participants at the measurement date.
different basis: or number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These arise The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: assets and liabilities are both managed and their When available, the Group measures the fair value of an from awards made under share-based incentive schemes.
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that Share awards with performance conditions attaching to them receivables: and financial assets available for sale.
Management accordance with documented risk management and instrument.
are not considered to be dilutive unless these conditions have determines the classification of its financial assets at initial investment strategies.
been met at the reporting date.
Where no such active market exists for the particular asset or Financial assets held for trading liability, the Group uses a valuation technique to arrive at the Cash and cash equivalents The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the following fair value, including the use of transaction prices obtained in A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired categories: financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash recent arms length transactions where possible, discounted principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, or forms and other financial liabilities which, subsequent to initial cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation equivalents comprise balances with less than three months part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed recognition, are measured at amortised cost.
maturity from the date of acquisition.
This includes cash and techniques commonly used by market participants.
In doing so, together and for which there is evidence of short term profit fair value is estimated using a valuation technique that makes liquid assets, and amounts due to other banks to the extent taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying hedge relationship.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual less than 90 days.
maximum possible use of market inputs and that places cash flows from the asset expire or it transfers the right to minimal possible reliance upon entity-specific inputs.
Financial assets available for sale receive contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements Financial assets available for sale can be listed or unlisted and transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos are are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as ownership are transferred.
at initial recognition is the transaction price, which retained in their respective balance sheet categories.
The available for sale and are not classified into any of the represents the fair value of the consideration given or counterparty liability is included in amounts due to other categories of i fair value through profit or loss, or ii loans and A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced banks or due to customers as appropriate, based upon the receivables and are recognised on trade date.
the Group has discharged its obligation to the contract, or the by comparison with other observable current market counterparty to the transaction.
contract is cancelled or expires.
transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification Financial assets available for sale are initially recognised at or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose Securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse fair value including direct and incremental transaction Offsetting financial instruments variables include only data from observable markets.
When repos are accounted for as collateralised loans.
They are subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains such evidence exists, the Group recognises profits or losses A financial asset and a financial liability will be offset and the net borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements unless and losses arising from changes in fair value are included as on the transaction date.
amount presented on the balance sheet if, and only if, the Group they are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and a separate component of equity until sale or impairment currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the The carrying value of financial assets at fair value through amounts and it intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise income.
The obligation to return securities borrowed is income statement.
profit or loss incorporates the credit risk attributable to the the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
Changes in the credit profile of the the Group under reverse repo agreements are normally Interest income is determined using the effective interest counterparty are reflected in the fair value of the asset and Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss classified as deposits with other banks or cash and cash method.
Impairment losses and translation differences on recognised in the income statement.
Upon initial recognition, financial assets and liabilities may be monetary items are recognised in the income statement designated at fair value through profit or loss and are initially within the year in which they arise.
In certain limited circumstances the Group applies the fair The difference between the sale and repurchase price of repos recognised at fair value, with transaction costs being recognised value measurement option to financial assets.
This option is and reverse repos is treated as interest and accrued over the in the income statement immediately.
Subsequently, they are Financial liabilities applied to loans and advances where the inherent market risks life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in the A financial liability is classified as held for trading if it is incurred principally interest rate and option risk are individually hedged income statement as they arise.
Items held at fair value through principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, or forms using appropriate interest rate derivatives.
The loan is Financial instruments profit or loss comprise both items held for trading and items part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed designated as being carried at fair value through profit or loss specifically designated as fair value through profit or loss at initial Recognition and derecognition of financial instruments together and for which there is evidence of short term profit to offset the movements in the fair value of the derivative recognition.
taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying hedge relationship.
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised on the within the income statement and therefore avoid accounting balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the mismatch.
When this option is applied the asset is included Restrictions are placed on the use of the designated fair value All other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables within other financial assets at fair value, and not within loans measurement option and the classification can only be used in using the effective interest method.
are recognised when cash is advanced or settled to the and advances.
When a loan is held at fair value, a statisticalthe following circumstances: borrowers.
based calculation is used to estimate expected losses if a host contract contains one or more embedded attributable to adverse movements in credit risk on the assets derivatives, the Group may designate the entire contract as being held at fair value: 218 219 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS held.
This adjustment to the credit quality of the asset is then made as an adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged Loans and advances The amount of the loss is recognised using an allowance applied to the carrying amount of the loan to arrive at fair asset or liability.
Where the hedged item is derecognised from account and is included in the income statement.
Loans and advances are non-derivative financial assets with value.
the balance sheet, the adjustment to the carrying amount of fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an the asset or liability is immediately transferred to the income The calculation of the present value of the estimated future active market and which are not classified as available for sale Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting statement.
cash flows of a collateralised financial asset reflects the cash or designated at fair value through profit or loss.
They arise flows that may result from foreclosure and any costs for All derivatives are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value when the Group provides money or services directly to a When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not customer with no intention of trading the loan.
Loans and on trade date and are classified as trading except where they hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the foreclosure is probable.
advances include overdrafts, credit card lending, market rate are designated as part of an effective hedge relationship.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item is advances, bill financing, mortgages, lease finance and term carrying value of a derivative is measured at fair value amortised to the income statement on an effective interest For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, lending.
throughout the life of the contract.
Derivatives are carried as basis over the remaining life of the asset or liability.
financial assets are grouped on the basis of similar risk assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the characteristics, taking into account asset type, industry, Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value fair value is negative.
Cash flow hedge geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to subsequently recorded at amortised cost, using the effective The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets interest method, adjusted for impairment losses and unearned on a derivative depends on whether the derivative is derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges by being indicative of the counterpartys ability to pay all income.
They are derecognised when the rights to receive designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the are recognised in equity.
Specifically, the separate component amounts due according to the contractual terms of the cash flows have expired or the Group has transferred item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives of equity is adjusted to the lesser of the cumulative gain or assets being evaluated.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or loss on the hedging instrument, and the cumulative change in liabilities or firm commitments a fair value hedge : or hedges of fair value of the expected future cash flows on the hedged Future cash flows for a group of financial assets that are highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised item from the inception of the hedge.
Any remaining gain or Impairment of financial assets other than fair value loans collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction a loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether basis of the contractual cash flows of the assets in the group cash flow hedge.
Hedge accounting is used for derivatives statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is not there is evidence that a financial asset or a portfolio of and historical loss experience for assets with credit risk designated in this way providing certain criteria are met.
Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to financial assets that is not carried at fair value through profit or characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss Group makes use of derivative instruments to manage the income statement in the period s in which the hedged loss is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data exposures to interest rates and foreign currency.
item affects profit or loss.
is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or the period on which the historical loss experience is based and The Group documents, at the inception of a transaction, the When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that relationship between hedging instruments and the hedged hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any the asset and prior to the balance sheet date a loss event, do not currently exist.
In addition, the Group uses its items, and the Groups risk management objective and cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains and that loss event or events has had an impact on the experienced judgement to estimate the amount of an strategy for undertaking these hedge transactions.
The Group in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the impairment loss.
This incorporates amounts calculated to documents how effectiveness will be measured throughout ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a portfolio that can be reliably estimated.
overcome model deficiencies and systemic risks where the life of the hedge relationship and its assessment, both at forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the appropriate and is supported by historic loss experience data.
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of The use of such judgements and reasonable estimates is derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly immediately transferred to the income statement.
impairment exists individually for financial assets that are considered by management to be an essential part of the effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of individually significant, and individually or collectively for process.
A hedge is expected to be highly effective if the Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting financial assets that are not individually significant.
If the changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future risk during the period for which the hedge is designated are exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether accounting.
This could occur for two reasons: cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences expected to offset in a range of 80% to 125%.
significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial the derivative is held for purposes of short term profit between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively taking: or Fair value hedge assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the the derivative is held to economically hedge an exposure assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is The carrying value of the hedged item on initial designation is original effective rate of interest which was used to discount but does not meet the accounting criteria for hedge adjusted for the fair value attributable to the hedged risk.
or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the accounting.
Subsequent to initial designation, changes in the fair value of impairment loss.
derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges In both these cases, the derivative is classified as a trading are recorded in the income statement, together with any For loans and advances, the amount of impairment loss is derivative and changes in the value of the derivative are When a loan is uncollectible, it is written off against the related changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that measured as the difference between the assets carrying provision.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary immediately recognised in the income statement.
are attributable to the hedged risk.
The movement in the fair amount and the present value of the estimated future cash procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts 220 221 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS previously written off reduce the amount of the expense in As lessee to the income statement in prior years.
To the extent that Investment properties the income statement.
they reverse previous revaluation gains, revaluation losses are These are properties land or buildings, or part of a building, The leases entered into by the Group as lessee are primarily charged against the asset revaluation reserve.
This policy is operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the or both held by the owner or by the lessee under a finance If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss applied to assets individually.
Revaluation increases and lease to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, income statement on a straight line basis over the period of decreases are not offset, even within a class of assets, unless decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an the lease.
rather than for: event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the they relate to the same asset.
use in the production or supply of goods or services or previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting When an operating lease is terminated before the end of the for administrative purposes: or the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is All other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at lease period, any payment made to the lessor by way of sale in the ordinary course of business.
recognised in the income statement.
cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
penalty is recognised as an expense in the period of Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable termination.
Investment property assets are carried at fair value, with fair If the originally contracted terms of loans and advances are to acquisition of the asset.
value movements taken to the income statement in the year amended, the amounts are classified as restructured and may Sale and leaseback leases entered into by the Group as lessee in which they arise.
Investment property assets are revalued also be disclosed as forbearance if the customer is Property, plant and equipment carrying amounts are reviewed are primarily operating leases.
Where an operating lease is annually by the Directors to reflect fair values.
Directors experiencing, or is about to experience, difficulties in meeting for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances established at fair value, any excess of sales proceeds over the valuations are based on advice received from independent their financial commitments to the Group.
Such accounts indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An carrying amount is recognised immediately in the income valuers.
Such valuations are performed on an open market accrue interest as long as the loan performs in accordance assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its statement.
basis being the amounts for which the assets could be with the restructured terms.
recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater exchanged between a knowledgeable willing buyer and a than its estimated recoverable amount.
The recoverable As lessor knowledgeable willing seller in an arms length transaction at amount is the higher of i the assets fair value less costs to sell Equity and debt instruments classed as available for sale Leases entered into by the Group as lessor, where the Group the valuation date.
Newly acquired investment property assets and ii the assets value in use.
In the case of equity instruments classified as available for sale, transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to are held at cost equivalent to fair value due to their recent the Group seeks evidence of a significant or prolonged decline the lessee, are classified as finance leases.
The net investment acquisition until the time of the next annual review, a period Where a group of assets working together supports the in the fair value of the security below its cost to determine in the lease, which is comprised of the present value of the not exceeding 12 months.
generation of cash inflows largely independent of cash inflows whether impairment exists.
Where such evidence exists, the lease payments including any guaranteed residual value and from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised initial direct costs, is recognised as a receivable.
The difference Investments in controlled entities and associates is assessed in relation to that group of assets a cashdirectly in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the between the gross receivable and the present value of the generating unit.
The Groups investments in controlled entities and associates income statement.
Income is recognised over the are valued at cost or valuation less any provision for term of the lease using the net investment method before With the exception of freehold land, all items of property, impairment.
Such investments are reviewed annually for Reversals of impairment of equity shares classified as available tax reflecting a constant periodic rate of return.
plant and equipment are depreciated or amortised using the impairment, or more frequently when there are indications for sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Increases straight line method, at rates appropriate to their estimated that impairment may have occurred.
Losses relating to in the fair value of equity shares classified as available for sale Assets under operating leases are included within property, useful life to the Group.
For major classes of property, plant impairment in the value of shares in controlled entities and after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
plant and equipment at cost and depreciated over the useful and equipment, the annual rates of depreciation or associates are recognised in the income statement.
life of the lease after taking into account anticipated residual amortisation are: In the case of debt instruments classified as available for sale, values.
Operating lease rental income is recognised within Intangible assets impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as all other other operating income in the income statement on a straight buildings - 2%: financial assets.
Where evidence of impairment exists, the net The identifiable and directly associated external and internal line basis over the life of the lease.
Depreciation is recognised leasehold improvements - the lower of the expected lease loss that has been previously recognised directly in equity is costs of acquiring and developing software are capitalised within depreciation expense in the income statement term and the assets useful life: and recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment where the software is controlled by the Group, and where it is consistent with the nature of the asset.
of debt securities classified as available for sale are recognised probable that future economic benefits that exceed its cost in the income statement.
will flow from its use over more than one year.
Costs Property, plant and equipment The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and associated with maintaining software are recognised as an All freehold and long term leasehold land and buildings are adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
Gains or losses Leases expense as incurred.
Capitalised software costs are amortised revalued annually on an open market basis by the Directors to on the disposal of property, plant and equipment, which are on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives, usually The determination of whether an arrangement is, or reflect current market values, based on advice received from determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds between three and eight years.
Impairment losses are contains, a lease is based on the substance of the independent valuers.
In addition, full independent valuations are and the carrying amount at the time of sale, are included in the recognised in the income statement as incurred.
arrangement and requires an assessment of whether: carried out on a three year cycle on an open market basis, income statement.
Any realised amounts in the asset including directly attributable acquisition costs but without revaluation reserve are transferred directly to retained fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and deducting expected selling costs.
For properties that are earnings.
a specific asset or assets: and provision for impairment, if any.
vacant, valuations are carried out on an open market basis.
the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Revaluation increments are credited to the asset revaluation reserve, unless these reverse deficits on revaluations charged 222 223 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment of non-financial assets Defined benefit pension scheme Securitisation Equity based compensation Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for The defined benefit scheme provides defined benefits based The Group has securitised certain loans principally housing The Group engages in equity based compensation mortgage loans by transfer of these to structured entities impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances on years of service and career averaged revalued earnings for transactions in respect of services received from certain of its indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An benefits accruing after 1 April 2006.
A liability or asset in SEs controlled by the Group.
The securitisation enables a employees and to provide long term incentives.
The fair value subsequent issue of debt, either by the Bank or the SEs, to impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the respect of the defined benefit scheme is recognised on the of the services received is recognised as an expense.
The total carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
balance sheet and is measured as the present value of the investors who gain security of the underlying assets as amount to be expensed is measured by reference to the fair collateral.
Those SEs are fully consolidated into the Groups defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the defined value of the Companys shares, performance options or benefit scheme assets at the reporting date.
All such transferred loans continue to be held on performance rights granted, including, where relevant, any The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair the consolidated balance sheet, and a liability recognised for value less costs of disposal or its value in use.
of the defined benefit obligation for the scheme is discounted market performance conditions and any non-vesting by high quality corporate bond rates that have maturity dates the proceeds of the funding transaction, as the Group retains conditions.
substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the approximating to the terms of the Groups defined benefit For assets that do not generate largely independent cash obligation.
inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash The impacts of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions are not included in the fair value and instead generating unit to which that asset belongs.
Management Financial guarantees judgement is applied to identify cash generating units and they Pension expense attributable to the Groups defined benefit are included in estimating the number of awards or options scheme comprises current service cost, net interest on the net that are expected to vest.
represent a group of assets that generate cash inflows that are The Group provides guarantees in the normal course of largely independent from other assets or groups of assets.
defined benefit obligation asset, past service cost resulting business on behalf of its customers.
Guarantees written are from a scheme amendment or curtailment, gains or losses on The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which conditional commitments issued by the Group to guarantee settlement and administrative costs incurred.
Where actuarial is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions Provisions for liabilities and charges the performance of a customer to a third party.
Guarantees remeasurements arise, the Groups policy is to fully recognise are to be satisfied.
A corresponding credit is recognised in the are primarily issued to support direct financial obligations such Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when a such amounts directly in equity through the statement of equity based compensation reserve.
In some circumstances as commercial bills or other debt instruments issued by a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of past events, comprehensive income, in the period in which they occur.
employees may provide services in advance of the grant date counterparty.
It is the rating of the Group as a guarantee it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be Actuarial remeasurements arise from experience adjustments and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the provider that enhances the marketability of the paper issued necessary to settle the obligation, and the obligation can be the effects of differences between previous actuarial purposes of recognising the expense during the period by the counterparty in these circumstances.
Provisions for liabilities and charges are not assumptions and what has actually occurred and changes in between the start of the service period and grant date.
discounted to the present value of their expected net future actuarial assumptions.
The financial guarantee contract is initially recorded at fair cash flows except where the time value of money is At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its considered material.
value which is equal to the premium received, unless there is The Group also provides post retirement health care for estimates of the number of shares, performance options and evidence to the contrary.
Subsequently, the Group records certain retired employees.
The calculation of the post performance rights that are expected to vest based on the and measures the financial guarantee contract at the higher Conduct Indemnity retirement health care liability is calculated in the same manner non-market and service vesting conditions.
The impact of the of: As part of the demerger, NAB and the Company have entered as the defined benefit pension obligation.
revision to original estimates, if any, is recognised in the into a Conduct Indemnity Deed.
The accounting for this where it is likely the Group will incur a loss as a result of income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the matter is discussed in note 27. issuing the contract, a liability is recognised for the Subordinated debt and related entity balances equity based compensation reserve.
estimated amount of the loss payable: and Subordinated debt and related entity balances, other than Pension and post retirement costs the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, Equity derivatives, are recorded at amortised cost.
Prior to the Employees of the Group are entitled to benefits on amortisation of the fee which is recognised over the life demerger, the subordinated debt was included within amounts Equity based compensation reserve retirement, disability or death from the Groups pension plans.
due to related entities on the balance sheet.
Subordinated The Groups equity based compensation reserve records the The Group operates both defined contribution and defined debt outstanding at 30 September 2016 is included in debt value of equity-settled share based payment benefits provided benefit pension schemes.
Contingent liabilities securities in issue.
to the Groups employees as part of their remuneration that Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence has been charged through the income statement adjusted for Defined contribution pension scheme will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present Debt issues deferred tax.
The defined contribution scheme receives fixed contributions obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is Debt issues are short and long term debt issued by the Group from Group companies with the Groups obligation for uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities including commercial paper, notes, term loans and residential In comparative periods the equity based compensation contributions to these plans recognised as an expense in the are not recognised on the balance sheet but are disclosed mortgage backed securities RMBS.
Debt issues are typically reserve represented the outstanding fair value amount in income statement as incurred.
Prepaid contributions are unless they are remote.
recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest respect of share based payment expense recharged by the recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a method.
Premiums, discounts and associated issue expenses Groups former ultimate parent, NAB, which had been reduction in the future payment is available.
are recognised using the effective interest method through charged through the income statement and adjusted for the income statement from the date of issue to accrete the deferred tax.
carrying value of securities to redemption values by maturity date.
Interest is charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
224 225 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the date of the demerger, current and former employees of Post-acquisition, income received and expenses incurred by In particular, management judgement is required in the redress costs the average payment made to customers.
Also the Group held awards granted in previous periods for which the entity or entities acquired are included in the consolidated estimation of the amount and timing of future cash flows factored into the estimate is the effect of the past business vesting is subject to continuing employment, and in some income statement on a line by line basis in accordance with the when determining the impairment loss.
In estimating these review and the judgements required around customer mailing instances specified performance criteria being met.
Following accounting policies set out herein.
cash flows, the Group makes judgements about the borrowers response rates.
The provision is therefore subject to inherent the demerger, existing unvested awards remain in place.
NAB financial situation and the net realisable value of collateral.
uncertainties as a result of the subjective nature of the will settle the awards granted to Group employees in previous A non-controlling interest is recognised by the Group in These estimates are based on assumptions about a number of assumptions used in quantifying the overall estimated position periods in accordance with the original terms of the grant.
The factors and actual results may differ, resulting in future changes at 30 September 2016.
Consequently, the provision respect of any portion of the total assets less total liabilities of Group will compensate NAB for the cost of the awards an acquired entity or entities that is not owned by the Group.
calculated may be subject to change in future years as a result provided to the Groups employees.
Subsequent to the of the emergence of new trends in relation to the demerger, the amounts payable to NAB in respect of such Loans and advances that have been assessed individually and judgements and assumptions which differ to those currently awards no longer meet the definition of equity based payments used.
Sensitivity analysis indicating the impact of reasonably 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements found not to be impaired and all not individually significant loans under IFRS 2: Share based payment.
Consequently, amounts and advances are then assessed collectively, in groups of assets possible changes in key assumptions on the PPI provision is The preparation of financial statements requires the use of within the equity based compensation reserve relating to included within note 27. with similar risk characteristics, to determine whether provision certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that outstanding NAB awards were reclassified to due to other should be made due to incurred loss events for which there is affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and banks in the consolidated balance sheet immediately following objective evidence but whose effects are not yet evident.
The There are similar uncertainties and judgements for other expenses and the disclosed amount of contingent liabilities.
collective assessment takes account of data from the loan conduct risk related matters, including the Groups IRHP Assumptions made at each balance sheet date are based on portfolio such as credit quality, levels of arrears, credit provision, disclosed in note 27, however, the level of liability is best estimates at that date.
Although the Group has internal Cash flow hedge reserve utilisation, loan to collateral ratios etc.
concentrations of risk materially lower.
control systems in place to ensure that estimates can be and economic data including levels of unemployment, and real The cash flow hedge reserve records the effective portion of reliably measured, actual amounts may differ from those estate price indices.
If the PDs were to improve from those Retirement benefit obligations the fair value revaluation of derivatives designated as cash flow estimates.
The most significant use of judgements and presently used within the Groups provisioning models by 5% hedging instruments.
The cost of the defined benefit pension plan is determined estimates are as follows: the impairment provision on loans and advances would using an actuarial valuation.
The actuarial valuation involves decrease by 5m.
Alternatively, if PDs deteriorate by 5%, the Other equity instruments making assumptions about discount rates, future salary Fair value of financial instruments impairment provision on loans and advances would increase by increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to Other equity instruments represent AT1 notes.
These are Where the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities 5m.
To the extent that recovery rates improve from those the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject perpetual capital notes with no fixed maturity or redemption recorded on the balance sheet cannot be derived from active presently used within each of the Groups provisioning models to significant uncertainty.
Further details on the assumptions date and are classified as equity instruments.
Distributions on markets, they are determined using a variety of valuation by 5%, the impairment provision on loans and advances would used and sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions are the AT1 notes are deducted from equity on the payment date techniques that include the use of mathematical models.
Alternatively, if recovery rates deteriorate provided in note 29. net of any tax relief.
The Company has sole and absolute inputs to these models are derived from observable market by 5%, the impairment provision on loans and advances would discretion at all times and for any reason to cancel in whole or data where possible, but where observable market data is not increase by 22m.
There are interactions between the various Carrying value of investments in part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable available, judgement is required to establish fair values.
The assumptions within the provisioning models, which mean that on any interest payment date.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, an impairment judgements include considerations of liquidity and model no single factor is likely to move independent of others: test was performed on the carrying value of the Companys inputs.
however, the sensitivities disclosed above assume all other Combination of businesses under common control investment in Clydesdale Bank PLC at the Groups standard assumptions remain unchanged.
annual impairment test date in September 2016.
The results of Business combinations involving entities under common The most significant judgement is in relation to the Groups fair this test did not indicate any impairment in the carrying value control, where all combining entities are ultimately controlled value loan portfolio.
The most significant input impacting the The impairment loss on loans and advances is disclosed in more of Clydesdale Bank PLC.
by the same entity before and after the business combination, carrying value of the loans other than interest rates is the detail in note 17 and in the Risk Report.
are accounted for using the predecessor values method of future expectation of credit losses.
Sensitivity analysis The key assumptions and sensitivities involved in these accounting.
This involves recognising assets and liabilities of the indicating the impact of reasonably possible changes in this PPI redress provision and other conduct related matters calculations are discussed further in note 42 of the Company acquired business at the predecessors book value, without any input on the fair value is included within note 37.
Disclosures in relation to the Groups PPI redress provision can financial statements.
change to reflect fair value of those assets and liabilities.
Any be found in note 27 with the Group holding a provision of difference between the cost of acquisition and the aggregate The valuation of these financial instruments is described in 725m at 30 September 2016 2015: 774m.
Significant book value of the assets and liabilities as of the date of the more detail in note 14. judgement by management is required in determining the key transfer of the acquired entity is recorded as an adjustment to assumptions used to estimate the quantum of the provision, equity.
No additional goodwill is created by the business Impairment losses on loans and advances including the level of complaint volumes both historic and combination.
The Group reviews its individually significant loans and estimated future complaint volumes, uphold rates how many advances at each balance sheet date to assess whether an claims are, or may be, upheld in the customers favour and impairment loss should be recorded in the income statement.
226 227 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax assets SME Banking Retail Banking Personal loans: the Group provides unsecured personal loans through its branch network and through its digital Disclosures in relation to the Groups deferred tax assets of The Groups established regional SME franchise offers a full The Group has a comprehensive regional and national retail and telephone distribution channels.
The reduction range of banking products and services to meet business banking product proposition with a personal deposit Credit cards: the Group currently offers three credit card of 206m principally reflects the impact of changes in customers banking needs across its small business, portfolio comprising of PCAs, savings accounts and term products, Private MasterCard, Business MasterCard and legislation restricting the use of certain historic losses to 25% commercial, specialist and acquisition finance segments.
The Groups retail loan portfolio comprises of Gold MasterCard.
of future profits and the change in future tax rates, coupled mortgages, personal loans, credit cards and overdrafts: Overdrafts: the Group provides overdraft lending across with managements decision to reduce its horizon for The Groups SME franchise is comprised of small businesses PCA: a stable source of funding with a large number of a variety of PCA products, subject to the account recognition of losses reflecting the uncertainty inherent in the which the Group defines as businesses with lending of up to PCA customers having a tenure with the Group of more holders status.
The Group has assessed the recoverability 0.5m but less than 2.0m in turnover and commercial than ten years.
of these deferred tax assets at 30 September 2016 and businesses which the Group defines as businesses with Savings accounts: the Group offers a variety of savings Major customers considers it probable that sufficient future taxable profits will lending of more than 0.5m and greater than 2.0m in accounts that pay a variable rate of interest.
It also offers be available against which the underlying deductible temporary Revenues from no one single customer amount to greater turnover.
Across all business segments, the Group provides cash ISAs that offer depositors tax free returns.
The Group has made this working capital solutions through asset finance, invoice than 10% of the Groups revenues.
Term deposits sometimes referred to as fixed rate savings assessment with reference to the latest available profit finance, international trade, merchant acquiring and treasury accounts or time deposits : offer a fixed interest rate for a forecasts.
The tax losses carried forward have been assessed services.
for recoverability against the Groups forecasts which include The Group has no operations outside the UK and therefore Mortgages: the Group provides mortgage loans on a adjustments for future strategic changes, the future economic The Group offers a full range of lending products and no secondary geographical area information is presented.
capital repayment basis, where the loan is required to be outlook and regulatory change.
Current UK tax legislation services across a portfolio consisting of term lending, repaid during its life, and on an interest-only basis, where does not specify a maximum forecast horizon to utilise losses: overdrafts and working capital solutions through its SME the customer pays interest during the term of the the Group expects the assets remaining on its balance sheet franchise: mortgage loan with the principal balance required to be to be recovered over a horizon consistent with the Groups repaid in full at maturity.
The Group offers both ownerTerm lending: the Group offers a wide variety of term current corporate planning period which is deemed to be the occupied mortgage loans pursuant to which the loans, both secured and unsecured, and offers customers reasonably foreseeable future in light of the uncertainty borrower is the owner and occupier of the mortgaged a range of repayment and interest rate options.
The surrounding the taxation of banking groups.
property and BTL loans pursuant to which the borrower majority of the Groups business term lending is LIBOR intends to let the mortgaged property.
Overdrafts: business overdrafts are the primary type of 4.
Segment information revolving variable rate credit facility offered by the Group The Groups operating segments are operating units engaged to business customers.
in providing different products or services and whose Invoice finance: the Group advances funds against the operating results and overall performance are regularly customers trade receivables.
reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker, the Asset finance: these products provide a method of Chief Executive Officer.
International trade services: these products facilitate The Groups business is organised into two principal operating transactions between a buyer and seller located in segments: SME Banking and Retail Banking.
The Group offers import loans, export Functions of the Group consist of: Finance, Risk Management, loans, documentary collections and currency guarantees, Chief Operating Office, Corporate Development and together with letters of credit for securing trade.
Stakeholder Engagement, CEO Office Support, Products, Propositions & Marketing, Internal Audit and Human BCAs: the Group provides business customers day to day Resources.
banking, current account facilities including debit cards, cheque books, regular statements, direct debits and Other reflects elements of income and expenditure that are standing orders, online banking and overdraft facilities.
not recharged to the Groups two principal operating segments such as conduct related provisions, impairment of intangibles and restructuring costs.
228 229 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Net interest income 2016 2015 SME Retail Central m m 2016 Banking Banking Functions Other Total Operating segments m m m m m Interest income and similar income Net interest income 285 472 49 - 806 Loans and advances to other banks 22 28 Non-interest income 77 77 29 8 191 Financial assets available for sale 11 8 Operating income 362 549 78 8 997 Loans and advances to customers 1,037 1,033 Operating and administrative expenses 70 119 540 152 881 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 27 37 1 Impairment losses on credit exposures 30 9 - - 39 Due from related entities note 12 1 3 Other interest income 3 1 Segment operating profit loss before tax 262 421 462 144 77 2 Total interest income and similar income 1,101 1,110 Average interest-earning assets 10,406 19,049 6,802 - 36,257 Less: Interest expense and similar charges 1 The impairment losses on credit exposures figure of 9m 2015: 33m for Retail Banking includes losses on certain retail products attributable to SME private banking Due to other banks 8 5 customers.
2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 Average interest earning assets for SME Banking include 3.3bn 2015: 3.3bn of mortgages originated by private banking.
Due to customers 188 195 SME Retail Central Debt securities in issue 87 82 2015 Banking Banking Functions Other Total Due to related entities note 12 11 40 Operating segments m m m m m Total interest expense and similar charges 295 323 Net interest income 274 461 52 - 787 Net interest income 806 787 Non-interest income 77 94 6 63 240 Operating income 351 555 58 63 1,027 6.
Non-interest income Operating and administrative expenses 82 116 529 507 1,234 1 Impairment losses on credit exposures 45 33 - - 78 2016 2015 m m Segment operating profit loss before tax 224 406 471 444 285 Gains less losses on financial instruments at fair value 2 Average interest-earning assets 10,908 17,400 7,472 - 35,780 Interest rate derivatives 3 29 Other assets and liabilities at fair value 7 29 The components of the Other segment are 1m for gains on capital and debt restructure 2015: 63m, 7m gain on available Ineffectiveness arising from fair value hedges note 15 - 1 for sale asset disposal 2015: Nil through non-interest income.
Operating and administrative expenses include 44m for PPI redress expense 2015: 390m, Nil for PPI handling fine 2015: 21m, Nil for IRHP redress expense 2015: 75m, other Ineffectiveness arising from cash flow hedges note 15 1 1 conduct expenses 7m 2015: Nil, 45m for restructuring expenses 2015: 17m, 11m for separation costs 2015: 10m, 9 2 Nil for pension increase exchange result 2015: 18m, 45m of impairment of intangible assets 2015: 10m, Nil for loss on Other operating income capital restructure 2015: 2m.
Fees and commission 151 144 Margin on foreign exchange derivative brokerage 19 19 Gains on disposal of available for sale financial assets 8 - Net fair value movement on investment properties 1 1 Other income 5 76 182 238 Total non-interest income 191 240 230 231 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Groups share in Visa Europe was increased by 7m, with a 6.
Operating and administrative expenses corresponding increase in the Groups available for sale Gains less losses on financial instruments at fair value reserve.
The fair value gain recognised within the available for 2016 2015 incorporates valuation movements for certain financial assets sale reserve was recycled to the income statement on m m which are designated at inception as fair value through profit completion of the sale and is included within Gains on disposal Personnel expenses or loss.
These assets are predominantly fixed interest rate of available for sale financial assets above.
loans and movements in fair value are recognised in the Salaries, wages and non-cash benefits 184 175 income statement as part of non-interest income.
The fair Related personnel expenses 27 22 In the year ended 30 September 2016 other income includes value of these loans is derived from the future loan cash flows a gain of 1m 2015: 2m on early repurchase of medium Defined contribution pension expense 20 16 using appropriate discount rates and includes adjustments for term subordinated debt note 28 and 12 and a gain of Nil Defined benefit pension expense 28 11 credit risk and credit losses.
In general, as interest rates fall, 2015: 61m arising on capital restructures.
A loss of Nil the fair value of the loan portfolio increases.
Conversely, as Equity based compensation 5 7 arising on a capital restructure is included in related entity interest rates rise, the fair value of the loan portfolio Other personnel expenses 16 35 charges notes 7 and 12 2015: 2m.
Similarly, if credit spreads widen, the fair value of 280 266 these loans will decrease, and vice versa.
A credit risk gain on In December 2014, 650m of Tier 2 subordinated debt issued Restructuring fair value loans and associated liabilities of 11m, offset by a was redeemed.
These instruments would have become fair value loss of 4m, has been recognised in the current Restructuring expense 45 17 progressively ineligible for Tier 2 treatment under CRD IVs period 2015: 18m and 47m, respectively.
The valuation Depreciation and amortisation expense transitional rules from 1 January 2015 as well as being technique used is reflective of current market practice.
impacted by the introduction of a 25% capital limit under Pillar Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 19 25 26 2A.
These instruments were replaced by an issue of 350m Amortisation of intangible assets note 22 63 57 In the year ended 30 September 2016 fees and commission of ordinary shares and an issue of AT1 capital instruments of income includes an additional 13m of income as a result of 88 83 150m.
As a result of the redemptions, the prior year results the acquisition of CYB Intermediaries Limited on 30 Other operating and administrative expenses include gains of 61m in other income arising on capital September 2015. restructures and a further gain of 2m on early redemption Operating lease rental 30 32 of medium term funding on 30 September 2015, resulting in Other occupancy charges 39 38 On 2 November 2015 Visa Inc. announced the proposed total gains in the year to 30 September 2015 of 63m.
acquisition of Visa Europe Limited Visa Europe which was Related entity charges note 12 5 20 completed on 21 June 2016.
The Group was a principal Impairment losses on software note 22 45 10 member and shareholder of Visa Europe and in exchange for PPI redress expense note 27 44 390 its share received a combination of cash and preferred stock.
Other conduct expenses note 27 7 75 Following the acquisition announcement, the fair value of the Other operating and administrative expenses 298 303 468 868 Total operating and administrative expenses 881 1,234 Related entity charges includes a loss on capital restructuring to future inflation based increases.
Accounting for this change of Nil 2015: 2m note 12. resulted in a credit to the income statement of 18m in 2015, resulting in a reduction in the defined benefit pension expense During the year ended 30 September 2015, the Groups for that year.
defined benefit pension plan arrangements were amended to offer certain members the option to participate in a pension Separation costs of 11m and Nil 2015: 8m and 2m are increase exchange upon retirement.
After taking independent included within other operating and administrative expenses financial advice the member can elect to take a higher rate of and personnel expenses respectively.
pension upon retirement in exchange for waiving their right 232 233 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Operating and administrative expenses continued 2016 2015 m m Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 77 285 Auditors remuneration 2016 2015 Included within other operating and administrative expenses: 000 000 Tax expense credit based on the standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK of 20% 2015: 20.5% 15 58 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements 20 242 Effects of: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1,387 858 Disallowable expenses 8 8 Total audit fees 1,407 1,100 Conduct indemnity adjustment 1 - Audit related assurance services 180 337 Other assurance services 35 1,926 Non-deductible FCA fine - 4 Regulatory capital and debt restructure - 12 Total non-audit fees 215 2,263 Deferred tax assets derecognised note 23 237 16 Fees payable to the Companys auditor in respect of associated pension schemes 75 75 Impact of rate changes 11 1 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor 1,697 3,438 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 15 Included within other assurance is Nil in respect of assurance work related to the demerger and IPO 2015: 1,926k which Tax expense credit for the year 241 56 was paid by NAB.
The movement in audit fees from 2015 to 2016 primarily relates to the demerger and changes in the Group structure.
Comparative disclosures have been amended to conform The Conduct indemnity adjustment represents the receipt with the current periods presentation as detailed in note 1. from the Groups former parent less refunds attributable in accordance with the indemnity agreement note 27.
Finance Act No2 2015 introduced the Bank Surcharge for 8.
Taxation the banking entity within the Group from 1 January 2016, The impact of the corporation tax rate change, restriction on being an 8% charge on taxable profits above 25m before loss utilisation, and the impact of managements concurrent Current tax 2016 2015 the offset of brought forward losses or group relief.
There reassessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, is m m are no such taxable profits in the underlying banking entity discussed in note 23 Deferred tax.
UK corporation tax and accordingly no surcharge liability arises.
Current year 12 2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 21 9.
Distributions paid 9 19 Deferred tax note 23 2016 2015 m m Current year 236 43 AT1 distribution paid 35 18 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 6 232 37 Tax expense credit for the year 241 56 The tax assessed for the year differs from that arising from applying the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
A reconciliation from the expense credit implied by the standard rate to the actual tax expense credit is as follows: 234 235 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the period there have been transactions between the 12.
Earnings per share Group, NAB, controlled entities of NAB, controlled entities of The Group presents basic and diluted loss per share data in relation to the ordinary shares of CYBG PLC.
As explained in note 1, on 8 February 2016, CYBG PLC the Group, and other related parties.
Any transactions with became the new holding company for the CYBI Group by NAB subsequent to the demerger are not included in the way of a share for share exchange and was listed on the disclosures below.
Following the demerger and m m completion of the IPO, NAB no longer controls, jointly The Group provides a range of services to NAB and Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 206 247 controls or has significant influence over the Company or its controlled entities of NAB, including the provision of banking subsidiaries.
Consequently, there is no related party Tax relief on AT1 distribution attributable to ordinary equity holders note 1 7 4 facilities, granting loans and accepting deposits.
relationship between NAB and the Company or its subsidiaries Tax relief on loss on repurchase of CYBI AT1 issued to NAB 1 - following the demerger date.
As a result, amounts due to and The Group receives a range of services from NAB and its Loss attributable to ordinary equity holders for the purposes of basic due from NAB and its controlled entities have been 198 243 related parties, including loans and deposits, foreign exchange and diluted EPS reclassified from 8 February 2016, as explained below.
and various technical and administrative services.
As the related party relationship ceased between the Group The numbers of shares used for calculating the earnings per share are those of CYBG PLC.
The number of CYBI shares in the Subsequent to the date of the demerger, these are governed and NAB at the date of the demerger, only those transactions comparative periods have been converted into the equivalent number of CYBG PLC shares to reflect the corporate by TSAs and Reverse TSAs.
with NAB taking place up to the demerger date are reorganisation on 8 February 2016 note 1. reportable as related party transactions.
The comparative financial information has not been restated.
2016 2015 m m 2016 2015 Number of Number of shares Amounts due from NAB Group shares million million Loans - 673 Weighted-average number of ordinary shares in issue Other receivables - 113 - Basic 880 846 - 786 - Diluted 881 846 Basic loss per share pence 22.5 28.7 The interest income on the amounts due from NAB was 1m to 8 February 2016 2015: 3m note 5.
Diluted loss per share pence 22.4 28.7 2016 2015 m m Amounts due to NAB Group Deposits - 125 11.
Cash and balances with central banks RMBS - 382 2016 2015 Subordinated debt - 478 m m Other payables - 13 Cash assets 1,313 1,452 - 998 Balances with central banks including EU payment systems 4,642 4,979 5,955 6,431 The interest expense on the amounts due to NAB was 11m On 8 February 2016, amounts due from NAB were 1 Less mandatory deposits with central banks 43 44 to 8 February 2016 2015: 40m note 5. reclassified as amounts due from other banks.
Deposits and Included in cash and cash equivalents note 34 5,912 6,387 other payables previously classified within amounts due to On 30 September 2015, the Bank redeemed 429m of NAB were reclassified as amounts due to other banks.
The 1 Mandatory deposits are not available for use in the Groups day to day business and are non-interest bearing.
comparative financial information has not been restated.
medium term notes with NAB early, resulting in a gain of 2m.
The gain is included within other income note 6 along with other capital restructuring gains of 61m.
236 237 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Related party transactions continued Other transactions with NAB Group 2016 2015 m m Derivatives Gain on repurchase of subordinated debt 1 63 The following derivative positions were held with NAB: 2016 2015 Non-interest income received - 10 m m Other operating and administrative expenses note 7 5 20 Derivative financial assets Compensation of key management personnel KMP Designated as hedging instruments - 86 During the year, the Group has reviewed and updated its definition of key management personnel KMP for the purposes of Designated as held for trading - 60 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
KMP comprises Directors of the Bank and members of the Executive Leadership Team.
The - 146 2015 comparative figure has been amended to conform with this revised definition.
Derivative financial liabilities 2016 2015 Designated as hedging instruments - 173 m m Designated as held for trading - 263 1 Salaries and short term benefits 8 6 1 - 436 Other long term employee benefits 1 - 1 Post-employment benefits - - On 8 February 2016 derivative positions with NAB were reclassified as positions with third parties.
1 Termination benefits 2 2 2 Equity based compensation 4 2 Subordinated debt Interest on the debt is payable at fixed rates, is subordinated 15 10 to the claims of other creditors and is unsecured.
The debt is Subordinated debt comprises loan capital.
Prior to the 1 Directors emoluments are analysed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
employed in the general business of the Group.
demerger, the subordinated debt was included within 2 Basis of the expense recognised in the period in accordance with IFRS2: equity based compensations, including associated employers NIC.
amounts due to related entities on the balance sheet.
On 8 February 2016, the Group repurchased 475m of Subordinated debt outstanding at 30 September 2016 is The following information regarding Directors remuneration is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. subordinated debt from NAB at a market value of 474m, included in debt securities in issue note 28.
The comparative Directors remuneration figures for 2015 have been included for comparative purposes.
These reflect the remuneration received resulting in a gain on debt restructure of 1m included within financial information has not been restated.
by the Directors, as Directors of CYBI and CB PLC during 2015. other income note 6.
The replacement notes issued on 8 2016 2015 February 2016 are disclosed in note 28. m m 1 Aggregate remuneration 6 3 Long term incentive plans - - The rates of interest stated below applied to the 2016 2015 notes prior to their repayment on 8 February 2016: m m 6 3 10-year, non-call with a final maturity of 20 December 2023 - LIBOR 3.41% - 300 1 Aggregate remuneration and benefits are set out on a different basis to the Directors Remuneration Report, in line with statutory requirements.
10-year, non-call with a final maturity of 25 January 2021 - LIBOR 4.42% - 175 None of the Directors were members of the Groups defined contribution pension scheme during 2016 2015: Nil.
One of the - 475 Directors was a member of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme during 2016 2015: one.
None of the Directors hold Accrued interest payable - 3 share options and none were exercised during the year 2015: Nil.
Total subordinated debt - 478 Transactions with KMP KMPs, their close family members and any entities controlled or significantly influenced by the KMPs have undertaken the On 29 December 2014, the Group repaid 232m of Securitisation following transactions with the Group in the normal course of business.
The transactions were made on the same terms and subordinated debt to NAB at a market value of 206m, The Group has securitised part of its residential mortgage conditions as applicable to other Group employees, or on normal commercial terms.
resulting in a gain on capital restructure of 26m included portfolio and the cash raised from the issue of RMBS through within other income.
A further 343m was repaid to National structured entities forms part of the Groups medium term 2016 2015 Equities Limited at a market value of 308m, resulting in a m m funding.
A portfolio of BTL mortgages has been securitised gain of 35m.
The combined gain on capital restructures of through the Lannraig Master Trust Issuer programme and a Loans and advances 8 11 61m is reflected in note 6.
The Group also repaid 75m total of 352m 2015: 382m of the securities issued are held Deposits 3 1 subordinated debt to NAB at a market value of 77m, by NAB, which is no longer a related entity.
Following the resulting in a loss on capital restructure of 2m included demerger, these notes are included within debt securities in No provisions have been recognised in respect of loans provided to KMPs 2015: Nil.
There were no debts written off or within other operating and administrative expenses note 7. issue note 28.
The comparative financial information has not forgiven during the year to 30 September 2016 2015: Nil.
Included in the above are six 2015: ten loans totalling 7.4m 2015: been restated.
In addition to the above, there are guarantees of 0.4m 2015: 0.4m made to Directors and their related parties.
238 239 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value Other related party transactions Pension contributions of 84m 2015: 51m were made 2016 2015 during the year to the Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank Pension The Group incurred costs in relation to pension scheme m m Scheme sponsored by the Group note 29. administration.
These costs, which amounted to 0.5m in the Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss year ended 30 September 2016 2015: 0.6m, were charged Loans and advances 750 1,097 The Group also has a Nil 2015: 3m term deposit balance to the Group sponsored Scheme.
The Group has deposits of Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss due to the Groups associated entity note 21 on normal 31.7m 2015: 2.1m at the year end placed by the Scheme at commercial terms.
The balance is disclosed within due to market rates.
Due to customers term deposits 48 67 customers note 26.
Financial assets available for sale Derivatives which do not meet the requirements for hedge The loans are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy 2016 2015 accounting and that are related to loans held at fair value note 37. m m through profit or loss are accounted for as held for trading Listed securities 1,695 1,447 derivative financial instruments note 15.
Due to customers - term deposits Unlisted securities 29 8 Included in other financial liabilities at fair value are fixed rate Loans and advances deposits, the interest rate risk on which is hedged using Other financial assets 7 7 Included in other financial assets at fair value is a historical interest rate derivative contracts.
The deposits are recorded 1,731 1,462 portfolio of loans sales ceased in 2012.
Interest rate risk at fair value to avoid an accounting mismatch.
associated with these loans is managed using interest rate Listed securities increased by 20m to 25m at 30 September 2016 2015: derivative contracts and the loans are recorded at fair value The change in fair value attributable to changes in the Group 5m, with the corresponding gain recognised in the available to avoid an accounting mismatch.
The maximum credit Included in the available for sale AFS listed securities are credit risk is Nil 2015: Nil.
The Group is contractually for sale reserve within equity.
The obligated to pay 3m 2015: 4m less than the carrying 1,286m 2015: 1,274m in UK Government Gilts.
cumulative loss in the fair value of the loans attributable to amount at maturity to the deposit holder.
Visa Inc. changes in credit risk amounts to 24m 2015: 38m and the Unlisted securities change for the current year is a decrease of 14m 2015: The term deposits are classified as Level 3 in the fair value Included within financial assets available for sale unlisted These consist of unquoted equity and debt instruments, decrease of 36m.
securities at 30 September 2016 is 2m 2015: Nil hierarchy note 37. primarily: representing the fair value of Visa Inc. preferred stock received as partial consideration for the sale of the Groups share in Visa VocaLink Holdings Limited VocaLink Europe note 6.
The preferred stock is convertible into Visa On 21 July 2016, MasterCard announced that it has entered Inc. common stock or its equivalent at a future date, subject to into a definitive agreement to acquire 92.4% of VocaLink for potential reduction for certain litigation losses that may be consideration of 700m with an additional earn out of 169m incurred by Visa Europe.
based on attainment of certain performance targets.
The allocation of earn out between equity holders varies depending Other financial assets on the exit option chosen.
The transaction is subject to The other AFS financial asset of 7m represents deferred regulatory approvals and the completion date is uncertain.
consideration receivable and consists of the rights to future VocaLink is an unquoted company which operates the BACS commission.
and direct debit schemes in the UK as well as connecting ATMs using the LINK network.
The Group currently owns a 3.24% For further information on valuation methodology for available shareholding in VocaLink.
Following the announcement of the for sale assets and their classification within the fair value sale, the fair value of the Groups investment in VocaLink was hierarchy, refer to note 37. Credit quality of investments 2016 2015 m m Available for sale Senior investment grade 1,695 1,447 Other 36 15 1,731 1,462 240 241 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS held for trading although they are used for risk mitigation.
Derivative financial instruments Total derivative contracts as at 30 September 2015 Notional Fair value of Fair value of The tables below analyse derivatives between those contract amount assets liabilities The Group uses derivatives for risk mitigation purposes and m m m designated as hedging instruments and those classified as held does not have a trading book.
However, derivatives that do for trading.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments not meet the hedging criteria within IAS 39, or those for Cash flow hedges which hedge accounting is not desirable, are accounted for as Interest rate swaps 16,655 46 76 2016 2015 Cross currency swaps 843 8 53 m m 17,498 54 129 Fair value of derivative financial assets Fair value hedges Designated as hedging instruments 351 103 Interest rate swaps 1,452 35 115 Designated as held for trading 234 182 Cross currency swaps 499 14 - 585 285 1,951 49 115 Fair value of derivative financial liabilities Derivatives designated as held for trading Designated as hedging instruments 257 244 Foreign exchange rate related contracts Designated as held for trading 341 290 Spot and forward contracts 1,990 47 38 598 534 Cross currency swaps 150 5 5 Options 273 2 2 Cash collateral on derivatives placed with banks totalled 337m as at 30 September 2016 2015: 246m.
Cash collateral 2,413 54 45 received on derivatives totalled 57m as at 30 September 2016 2015: Nil.
These amounts are included within due from other Interest rate related contracts banks and due to other banks respectively.
Swaps 2,084 105 217 Swaptions 67 - 1 The derivative financial instruments held by the Group are further analysed below with the notional contract amount being the Options 706 1 5 amount from which the cash flows are derived and is not an indication of the amounts at risk relating to these contracts.
2,857 106 223 Commodity related contracts 160 22 22 Total derivative contracts as at 30 September 2016 Notional Fair value of Fair value of Total derivative contracts 24,879 285 534 contract amount assets liabilities m m m Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Derivatives traded to manage the Groups interest rate Cash flow hedged derivatives include vanilla interest rate Cash flow hedges exposure on a net portfolio basis are accounted for as cash swaps within macro hedges and cross currency swaps within a Interest rate swaps 15,526 154 79 flow hedges.
Derivatives traded to manage interest rate risk structured entity.
The Group has notional commitments in Cross currency swaps 760 88 - on certain fixed rate assets, such as UK Government Gilts, are the following periods: Forward contracts 5 - - accounted for as fair value hedges.
In addition, the Group cash 16,291 242 79 flow hedges its foreign currency exposure on material, highly Fair value hedges probable non-GBP denominated transactions.
Interest rate swaps 1,452 109 178 Derivatives designated as held for trading The Group hedging positions also include those designated as Foreign exchange rate related contracts foreign currency and interest rate hedges of debt issued from Spot and forward contracts 2,202 84 78 the Groups securitisation and covered bond programmes Cross currency swaps 150 11 11 respectively.
As such, certain derivative financial assets and Options 216 5 5 2,568 100 94 liabilities have been booked in consolidated structured entities.
Interest rate related contracts Swaps 1,512 123 233 Swaptions 47 - 1 Options 569 2 4 2,128 125 238 Commodity related contracts 127 9 9 Total derivative contracts 22,566 585 598 242 243 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Loans and advances to customers Nominal values per time period 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Within 0 to 3 months 1,452 4,230 Overdrafts 1,536 1,563 Between 3 and 12 months 6,710 2,028 Credit cards 400 376 1 to 5 years 8,063 11,148 Lease finance 515 426 Greater than 5 years 66 92 Mortgages 21,836 20,504 16,291 17,498 Other term lending SME 4,393 4,025 Other term lending retail 690 763 The Group has hedged the following forecast future cash flows, which vary primarily with interest or foreign exchange rates.
These cash flows are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: Other lending 26 30 Gross loans and advances to customers 29,396 27,687 Accrued interest receivable 76 75 Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast Unearned income 26 26 receivable payable receivable payable cash flows cash flows cash flows cash flows Deferred and unamortised fee income 29 24 2016 2016 2015 2015 Impairment provisions on credit exposures note 17 215 230 m m m m 29,202 27,482 Within 1 year 29 261 47 112 Between 1 and 2 years 16 368 38 235 Between 2 and 3 years 15 59 26 319 The Group has transferred 5,435m 2015: 5,923m of The Group also has a portfolio of fair valued business loans Between 3 and 4 years 14 77 21 57 mortgages through securitisation arrangements that do not and advances of 750m 2015: 1,097m note 14.
Combined qualify for derecognition from the balance sheet note 18. with the above this is equivalent to total loans and advances Between 4 and 5 years 8 112 9 68 The mortgages do not qualify for derecognition because the of 29,952m 2015: 28,579m.
Greater than 5 years - 6 - 96 Group remains exposed to the risks and rewards of 82 883 141 887 ownership on an ongoing basis.
Prior to any relevant hedging Further information on the Groups loans and advances to arrangements, the Group continues to be exposed primarily customers and impairment provisions on credit exposures is to the credit, liquidity and interest rate risk of the mortgages.
included within the Risk Report.
2016 2015 The Group is also exposed to the residual rewards of the m m mortgages as a result of its ability to benefit from the future Gain loss arising from fair value hedges note 6 performance of the mortgages through the receipt of Hedging instrument 15 109 deferred consideration.
The carrying amount of the Hedged item attributable to the hedged risk 15 108 associated liabilities is 3,208m 2015: 3,413m note 18.
- 1 Included within Group loans and advances to customers are 1,149m 2015: 1,475m of mortgages assigned to a 2016 2015 bankruptcy remote structured entity, Clydesdale Covered m m Bonds No.
These loans provide security for Loss gain from cash flow hedges due to hedge ineffectiveness note 6 1 1 covered bond issuances made by the Group.
These transactions do not qualify for derecognition from the balance sheet.
At 30 September 2016 there were 797m 2015: 721m of covered bonds in issue under the covered bond programme note 18.
244 245 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
Loans and advances to customers continued 17.
Impairment provisions on credit exposures Lease finance and hire purchase contracts amounted to 5m 2015: 2m 2016 2015 and 381m 2015: 297m respectively.
The total receivables The Group leases a variety of assets to third parties under m m from finance leases and hire purchase contracts were 8m finance lease arrangements, including vehicles and general Opening balance 230 245 2015: 6m and 482m 2015: 395m respectively.
The cost of assets acquired by the Group Charge for the year 39 78 during the year for the purpose of letting under finance leases Amounts written off 68 100 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 18 12 1 Other 4 5 Finance lease and hire purchase receivables 2016 2015 m m Closing balance 215 230 Gross investment in finance lease and hire purchase receivables Specific 64 92 Due within 1 year 224 183 Collective 151 138 Due within 1 to 5 years 288 241 215 230 Due after more than 5 years 3 2 1 Other includes the unwind of net present value elements of specific provisions and other minor movements.
515 426 Unearned income 25 25 2016 2015 Net investment in finance lease and hire purchase receivables 490 401 m m Amounts included in Loans and advances to customers note 16 215 230 Non-accrual loans Loans and advances to customers 214 238 Specific provisions 64 92 150 146 Further information on impairment provisions on credit exposures and related credit information is set out within the Risk Report.
246 247 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other movements consist of exchange rate movements on previously disclosed within amounts due to related entities A subset of the Groups retail mortgage portfolio has been 18.
Securitisations and covered bonds currency denominated bonds and fair value hedge note 12.
Following the demerger, these notes are included ringfenced and assigned to a bankruptcy remote Limited Securitisations accounting adjustments.
within debt securities in issue note 28.
Liability Partnership, associated with the covered bond The Group has securitised a proportion of its retail mortgage programme, to provide a guarantee for the obligations payable loan portfolio under the Groups master trust securitisation Included within the securitisation notes disclosed above are The following table sets out the net position of the fair value on the covered bonds issued by the Group.
The securitised mortgage loans have been 352m initial transfer value of 380m less repayments of financial assets where the counterparty to the associated securitisation programmes, the Group is entitled to any assigned at principal value to bankruptcy remote structured during the year of 28m of Lannraig debt securities liabilities has recourse only to the financial assets: residual income after all payment obligations due under the entities.
These structured entities have been funded through including accrued interest which are held by NAB and were terms of the covered bonds and senior programmes expenses the issue of residential mortgage backed debt to third party have been met.
The Group is entitled to any 2016 2015 residual income from the vehicles after the debt obligations The residential mortgages do not qualify for derecognition and senior expenses of the programmes have been met.
The Securitisation Covered Bonds Securitisation Covered Bonds because the Group retains all of the risks and rewards securitised debt holders have no recourse to the Group m m m m associated with these mortgage loans.
The covered bond other than the principal and interest including fees partnership is fully consolidated with the loans retained on the Fair value of transferred assets 5,417 - 5,870 - generated from the securitised mortgage portfolio.
The consolidated balance sheet and the covered bonds issued are Fair value of associated liabilities 3,233 - 3,048 - Group continues servicing these mortgage loans in return included within debt securities in issue.
The covered bond 2,184 - 2,822 - for an administration fee.
holders have dual recourse: first to Clydesdale Bank PLC on an unsecured basis and second to the LLP under the Covered The loans do not qualify for derecognition because the Bond Guarantee secured against the covered pool mortgage There were no events in the year that caused any Group Looking forward through future reporting periods there are Group remains exposed to the majority of the risks and assets.
The Group continues servicing these mortgage assets transferred financial assets to be derecognised.
a number of date based options on the notes issued by the rewards of the mortgage portfolio, principally the associated in return for an administration fee.
structured entities which could be actioned by them as issuer.
The securitisation structured entities are The Group has contractual and non-contractual These could require the Group, as sponsor, to provide consolidated and the securitised mortgage loans retained on The assets and liabilities in relation to securitisation and arrangements which may require it to provide financial additional liquidity support.
The securitised notes in issue are covered bonds in issue at 30 September 2016 within the support to the following types of consolidated structured included within debt securities in issue note 28. consolidated balance sheet are as follows: entities: Covered bonds Securitisation vehicles Covered bonds At the reporting date the nominal level of overThe Group provides credit support to the structured entities collateralisation was 599m 2015: 855m of the Securitisation Covered bonds Total via reserve funds through subordinated debt arrangements outstanding covered bonds.
From time to time the 2016 m m m and by holding junior notes.
The carrying value of exposures obligations of the Group to provide  may At 1 October 2015 3,031 721 3,752 totalled 20m in subordinated debt 2015: Nil and 610m in increase due to the formal requirements of the programme.
junior notes held 2015: 593m at the reporting date.
The Issuance of debt 750 - 750 Furthermore, the Group has an obligation to repurchase Group has a beneficial interest in the securitised mortgage mortgage exposures if certain representations and Reclassification of notes previously held internally 380 - 380 portfolio held by the structured entities as at the reporting warranties are breached.
Furthermore, the Group has Other movements 76 76 152 an obligation to repurchase mortgage exposures if certain representations and warranties are breached.
At 30 September 2016 3,208 797 4,005 Securitised assets 5,435 1,149 6,584 Securitisation Covered bonds Total 2015 m m m At 1 October 2014 2,370 1,063 3,433 Issuance of debt 1,207 - 1,207 Repayments 521 400 921 Other movements 25 58 33 At 30 September 2015 3,031 721 3,752 Securitised assets 5,923 1,475 7,398 Further information on the liabilities relating to the Groups securitisation and covered bond programmes can be found in note 28.
248 249 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Investment properties Long term 2016 2015 Freehold land leasehold land Building Fixtures and m m and buildings and buildings improvements equipment Total At 1 October 32 44 m m m m m Disposals 10 11 Cost or valuation Revaluation - 1 At 1 October 2014 11 3 161 114 289 At 30 September 22 32 Additions - - 10 9 19 Disposals 1 - 7 11 19 Investment properties are stated at fair value, which has been as defined in note 37.
There has been no change to the Transfers - - 7 7 - determined based on valuations performed by independent valuation technique during the year.
There were no transfers At 30 September 2015 10 3 171 105 289 valuers and the Groups own Directors valuations.
between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
Additions - - 15 7 22 Investment property is compared to property for which During the year, 97% 2015: 99% of the investment Disposals 4 - 32 12 48 there is observable market data about its realisable value on properties generated total rental income of 1m 2015: 2m At 30 September 2016 6 3 154 100 263 disposal.
Adjustments to this observable data are applied for and incurred operating and administrative expenses of 1m Accumulated depreciation specific characteristics of the property such as the nature, 2015: 1m.
The operating and administrative expenses of location or condition of the specific asset.
Investment the investment properties that did not generate rental At 1 October 2014 1 - 92 75 168 properties are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy income were Nil 2015: Nil.
Investments in controlled entities and associates 2016 2015 Charge for the year note 7 - - 15 10 25 m m Disposals - - 30 11 41 At 30 September - 2 At 30 September 2016 1 - 90 73 164 Net book value Associates influence but not control.
The associated undertakings At 30 September 2016 5 3 64 27 99 principal activity was the provision of finance and the Groups Associates are undertakings over which the Group exerts At 30 September 2015 9 3 66 31 109 interest of 33.33% in the issued equity capital of Nil is held significant influence but not control.
Investments in associates by Clydesdale Bank PLC.
The associated undertaking has a 31 are accounted for using the equity method.
The attributable March year end.
As at 30 September 2016, The Scottish Valuations Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as defined in note 37. share of profit and reserves of the associated undertaking is Valuations are performed annually in July.
Agricultural Securities Corporation PLC was in the process of The Groups freehold and long term leasehold land and based on the management accounts as at 30 September being liquidated.
The Group has an interest in The Scottish Agricultural buildings are carried at their fair value as determined by There has been no change to the valuation technique during independent valuers and the Groups own Directors Securities Corporation PLC which is registered and operates the year.
There were no transfers between levels of the fair The controlled entities of the Group and Company are in Scotland.
This investment is accounted for as an associate valuations.
Fair values are determined in accordance with provided in note 42. value hierarchy during the year.
guidance published by the Royal Institution of Chartered undertaking on the basis that the Group has significant Surveyors, including adjustments to observable market inputs A comparison of the carrying value on the revaluation basis and reflecting any specific characteristics of the land and buildings if the historical cost basis had been used is shown below: 2016 2015 m m Carrying value as included on the revaluation basis 8 12 Carrying value if the historical cost basis had been used 7 10 250 251 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Investments in controlled entities and associates continued 22.
Intangible assets Capitalised software costs 2016 2015 Structured entities its power over the entity, they are regarded as controlled m m entities as described in note 2 and are consolidated in the The Group sponsors the formation of structured entities, Cost Groups financial statements.
primarily for the purpose of facilitation of asset securitisation At 1 October 427 354 and covered bond transactions to accomplish certain narrow Details of the Groups interests in consolidated structured and well-defined objectives.
Although the Group has no Additions 99 119 entities are set out in note 18. shareholding in these entities, where it is exposed, or has Disposals - 41 rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the Write-off 63 5 The following companies are consolidated structured entities: entities and it has the ability to affect those returns through At 30 September 463 427 Accumulated amortisation Other controlled entities as at 30 At 1 October 162 141 September 2016 Nature of business Country of incorporation Disposals - 41 Clydesdale Covered Bonds No.
2 LLP Acquisition of mortgage loans England Charge for the year note 7 63 57 Lanark Holdings Limited Holding company England Write-off 63 5 Lanark Trustees Limited Mortgages trustee Jersey Impairment note 7 45 10 Lanark Trustees Limited Mortgages trustee England At 30 September 207 162 Lanark Funding Limited Funding company England Net book value at 30 September 256 265 Lanark Master Issuer PLC Issuer of securitised notes England Lannraig Holdings Limited Holding company England Impairment testing of capitalised software assets is performed amount.
An impairment charge of 45m has been recognised Lannraig Trustees Limited Mortgage trustee Jersey in accordance with IAS 36.
The impairment charge follows a in the year to 30 September 2016 2015: 10m.
Lannraig Funding Limited Funding company England detailed review of the recoverable amount of the various Lannraig Master Issuer PLC Issuer of securitised notes England assets.
Where the benefits associated with the software were Intangible assets are reviewed annually to consider whether substantially reduced from what had originally been anticipated, these assets are currently in use.
Fully amortised intangible or the asset has been superseded by a subsequent investment, assets of 63m 2015: 5m that were no longer in use were On 15 July 2016 the business activities of Lanark Trustees Limited Jersey transferred to Lanark Trustees Limited England.
the software has been written down to its recoverable written off during the year.
All of the above controlled entities have financial year end of 30 September.
Common control business combinations Significant restrictions 23.
Deferred tax As described in note 2, business combinations involving As is typical for a Group of its size, there are restrictions on the entities under common control, where all combining entities ability of certain subsidiary entities to make distributions of cash Movement in net deferred tax asset 2016 2015 are ultimately controlled by the same entity before and after or other assets to the parent company.
These are considered m m the business combination, are accounted for using the below: predecessor values method of accounting.
This involves At 1 October 379 339 recognising assets and liabilities of the acquired business at Contractual requirements - asset encumbrance Recognised in the income statement note 8 232 37 book values.
Any difference between the cost of acquisition The Group uses its financial assets to raise finance in the form Recognised directly in equity 9 3 and the aggregate book value of the assets and liabilities as of of securitisations and through the sale of securities subject to At 30 September 156 379 the date of the transfer of the acquired entity is recorded as repurchase agreements leading to the assets becoming an adjustment to equity.
No additional goodwill is created by encumbered.
Once encumbered, the assets are not available the business combination.
for transfer around the Group.
The encumbered assets are disclosed in the Risk Report, and in relation to securitisation, are disclosed in note 18.
