DireCTors remuneraTion reporT 2015 16 Chairmans statement The sale was a highly positive step in Dairy Crests development, and was achieved against a challenging trading and economic Dear shareholder, backdrop.
The nature of the transaction created short-term On behalf of the Board, I am uncertainty for the Group and is reflected in the incentive outcomes pleased to present the Directors under the financial measures that relate to the period in both annual Remuneration Report for the bonus and Long Term Alignment Plan LTAP.
As set out in last years report, our annual bonus has been assessed The Dairy Crest remuneration against four metrics: operating profit, free cashflow, personal policy continues to be based upon objectives and a metric dependent on the successful completion of a core set of principles which the sale of the Dairies business.
This approach was applied to all support the strategic and financial scheme participants, although a lesser percentage applied to ambitions of the Company: Executive Directors for the transaction related element, so that all The remuneration package should support a performance appropriate employees were incentivised and rewarded for their role based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align in achieving the deal.
The total bonus outcome for the year was 45% for Mark Allen and The remuneration structure is both uncomplicated and 45% for Tom Atherton.
This reflects the fantastic contribution by transparent, and we remain committed to open disclosure.
management to the successful transaction outcome 30% of bonus The measures used for incentive plans reflect the strategic and the strong delivery of personal objectives by both Executive priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future Directors.
However, the economic and trading circumstances faced success of the Company.
by the business over the year, compounded by the uncertainty created in the market as a result of the sale of the Dairies business, At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved our Directors resulted in the stretching 2015 16 financial performance targets set Remuneration Policy Policy with a 96% vote in favour.
A copy under the bonus in relation to operating profit and free cashflow not of the Policy is included after this statement for ease of reference.
The full Policy as approved by shareholders is also available on our website.
Under the LTAP, our Executive Directors are measured against a pre-determined set of strategic performance indicators which determine the level of grant.
The award is subject to a dividend Transformation of Dairy Crest performance underpin for the first 3 years of the vesting period, with Over the past two years Dairy Crest has been through a significant awards vesting in two equal tranches four and five years after grant.
transformation, with 2015 16 marking the completion of the sale of The 2015 16 grant level of 67.6% was determined based on the our Dairies business to Mller.
Over the year the passion and performance of the Company over 2015 16 against the scorecard dedication of our senior management has played an even more disclosed in the previous years report.
Details of the achievement critical role than usual in the delivery of the transaction and the against each scorecard measure are detailed in this report, and associated benefits to the Company, shareholders and wider sector.
reflect a consistent performance in a challenging year.
Our share price responded positively to the deal, demonstrating the strength of support our investors have for the sale of the Dairies The 2013 14 LTAP dividend underpin performance period of three business, which has resulted in the repositioning of the Company as years is now complete with both dividend progression and dividend a stronger branded and added value business.
cover maintained within the required parameters.
In accordance with the regulations, the value of this award has been included in the Following the announcement of the sale, a comprehensive strategic single figure of remuneration for this year as no further performance review has been undertaken, with the intention of restructuring and conditions will apply.
However, the vesting period for this award is reshaping the Company to be more streamlined and responsive to not yet complete, with the first half of the award vesting in 2017 18 enable us to deliver increased growth, cash generation and and the second half of the award vesting in 2018 19.
As such it is enhanced shareholder value.
This is already converting into important to note there are no long term incentive shares being measureable performance with a greater than 15% margin in the released to Mark Allen and Tom Atherton this year, even though they continuing business targeted to increase further next year and are included for regulatory reasons in the single figure.
improved profitability in the second half of the year set against the context of a deflationary dairy market.
As referenced in last years 2016 17 report, at an extraordinary general meeting in December 2014 The coming year will see the wholesale restructuring of the shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational Company and will therefore be a dynamic and exciting period for the Incentive Award TIA to Mark Allen, outside of the approved Policy.
business but not one without challenge.
The delivery of strong This award supported the retention and motivation of Mark Allen financial performance in this period is paramount and therefore the through this critical period in which his knowledge and experience annual bonus for 2016 17 will be principally based on operating profit were vital to a successful outcome.
The vesting outcome for the TIA and cashflow, being the key metrics against which the underlying is assessed based on the CEOs performance against a number of performance of the business is measured.
Personal objectives will objectives relating to and resulting from the deal.
Outstanding remain within the bonus, however.
The maximum opportunity will progress has been achieved to date against these objectives and, in remain at 100% of salary.
line with the commitment made in last years report, further detail on the TIA objectives and performance against these are set out in this Mark Allens salary was last increased five years ago in 2011.
As noted report subject to commercial confidentiality constraints.
previously in this statement, Mark Allen has demonstrated exceptional performance as our Chief Executive over this period and to reflect both this and the length of time his salary has been frozen, the Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 41 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Committee has determined that his salary should be increased by This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2015 to 31 4.2% to 540,000.
This increase is below the corresponding increase March 2016 and provides details of the Remuneration Committees of 5.6% received by the wider managerial, supervisory, administrative activities and Remuneration Policy for the Company, together with and clerical workforce of the Company in the period since 2011. payments and awards made to Directors.
Tom Atherton was promoted into the Group Finance Director role at a The Policy is set out in the section of this report entitled Directors salary significantly below the market rate with the intention that he Remuneration Policy.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at would receive enhanced salary adjustments in line with increasing the 2014 AGM and applies from 1 April 2015 until the 2017 AGM.
experience and good performance in role until a market median However, if the Policy ceases to be appropriate, the Committee positioning is achieved.
Tom continues to demonstrate strong will consider changes, putting any amended Policy to a performance as he develops in role and accordingly his salary has shareholder vote at the relevant time.
We have included a copy of been increased by 13.3% to 340,000.
Future increases to Toms the Policy in this Remuneration for ease of reference.
The only salary are expected to be in line with inflation and the wider workforce.
updates we have made to the Policy are to remove references to the 2013 14 or 2014 15 financial years, as well as any Directors In all aspects of our remuneration we have operated within the that have since left the Company and to update the section approved Policy and separate shareholder approval obtained in the Illustrations of the application of Remuneration Policy.
We have case of the TIA in the year.
For ease of reference, we provide the also included references to the Transformational Incentive Award complete Policy section within this report, although shareholder which was approved by shareholders outside Policy at an approval is not being sought for this at the 2016 AGM.
extraordinary general meeting in December 2014.
The full Policy as approved by shareholders is available on the website in our I would like to thank my fellow Committee members and internal and 2013 14 Directors Remuneration Report.
external teams who supported us with their commitment and hard work over the past year.
We remain committed to hearing your views The annual report on remuneration sets out the Committees as shareholders.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of our activities and the Companys payments and awards to Directors remuneration further I would welcome your comments.
together with details of the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2015 16 financial year.
This part of the Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by report together with the Chairmans statement is subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
richard macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 aGm Directors remuneration policy Future policy table We seek to ensure that the remuneration packages contribute to the The remuneration structure for Executive and non-executive delivery of long-term shareholder value.
This is reflected in the Directors who are paid only fees and receive no additional benefits Companys annual bonus scheme and LTAP, which are explained in at Dairy Crest and the underlying principles on which each element more details below.
The Committee received shareholder approval of the package is based are set out below.
of the following Policy at the Annual General Meeting on 15 July 2014 to cover the period from 1 April 2015 to the 2017 AGM.
How the element supports our performance metrics used, and time strategic objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Base salary Benchmarked against executives with Increases will normally be broadly in line with not applicable.
Reflect assessment similar responsibilities in companies of inflation and the wider employee population.
of market practice comparable size and complexity, in based on role and particular the constituent companies of The Committee retains the flexibility to award experience.
the FTsE 250 index excluding financial higher base salary increases and to position services.
salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Crest remains competitive in the market, and to take Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments into account an individuals personal during the year.
performance and experience in the role as such the Committee may apply increases over Reviewed annually and any changes are time as appropriate to achieve alignment with in the ordinary course effective from market levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a change in role or responsibility.
pension There is a defined contribution scheme Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive employer not applicable.
Provide a market and or salary supplement in place.
no contributions up to Annual Allowance plus cash competitive level of further service accrual under final salary supplements.
Total benefit will not exceed 23% provision with pension scheme from 1 April 2010. of salary.
appropriate flexibility whilst minimising risk to the Group.
42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 How the element supports our performance metrics used, and time strategic objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Benefits Includes company car benefit, life All Executives receive a company car car not applicable.
Provide marketassurance cover, permanent health allowance and private medical insurance, competitive benefits.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive life benefits on a monthly basis, or as insurance cover of 7 x annual salary.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to add to or remove these benefits as required.
Bonus To deliver an appropriate balance Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the Ensure that annual between long-term and short-term financial year.
reward is consistent reward, any bonus earned over 50% of Target award: 50% of salary.
with successfully annual salary is deferred into shares see Metrics used to determine performance under achieving the below.
The remainder is paid as cash.
the bonus will be based on a mix of financial, short-term financial operational and personal measures.
targets and strategic The cash element of the bonus is paid The Remuneration Committee has discretion to objectives of the three months after the end of the financial increase the maximum award to 150% of salary The Committee has the flexibility to vary the Group.
The Committee is performance measures and weighting of not aware of any such circumstances and so metrics under this plan.
does not currently expect to make awards above the maximum of 100% of salary.
Deferred bonus Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is Policy maximum award: 50% of salary none.
Value growth is achieved only through Deliver appropriate deferred for three years, conditional on maximum potential deferral.
change in share price, and dividend balance between continued employment until vesting date.
long-term and In the exceptional event the Remuneration short-term reward Delivered in shares.
Participants will Committee exercises discretion to award a and to build up normally be entitled to an amount, bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus earned Directors payable in shares, on vesting equal in above 50% of salary would be deferred into shareholdings in line value to the dividends payable on shares.
deferred bonus shares over the deferral period.
Long Term Annual grant of share awards.
Achievements over the prior year against a alignment plan pre-grant performance scorecard comprising LTap Awards will be subject to a phased If performance falls below a minimum level measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic Encourage and vesting requirement, with 50% of the against the scorecard no award will be made.
reward continuing award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 5 improvement in the following grant.
The Committee has flexibility to amend the Groups performance relevant measures, weightings and KPIs which over the longer term.
Participants will normally be entitled to an determine the size of the awards granted.
The amount on vesting, paid in shares, equal weighting of financial KPIs in determining Alignment of interest in value to the dividends payable on annual grant levels will be at least 60% of the between participants shares awarded.
The Board may at any time up to and on Vesting is subject to continued employment.
Measures identified vesting reduce the number of shares that are central to Dairy vest, should material misstatement or The level of vesting may be reduced Crests strategy and misconduct occur.
dependent on a dividend underpin over the are considered by first three years of the vesting period.
Directors in overseeing the An amount of the award proportional to the operation of the percentage decrease in dividend may be business.
clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
In such circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
The dividend cover range will be determined by the Committee annually, and may be adjusted if the Committee determines this to be appropriate.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 43 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED How the element supports our performance metrics used, and time strategic objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable shareholding Directors are encouraged to build a The shareholding requirement for Executive not applicable.
requirement shareholding in the Company.
such Directors is 200% of salary.
Alignment of interest shareholdings exclude unvested options between participants under the Long Term Incentive share Plan and shareholders.
and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Directors who have not achieved the minimum shareholding requirement will be encouraged to retain 50% of any shares released under the deferred bonus LTAP until the required level of shareholding is reached.
non-executive Benchmarked against non-executive The total fees for non-executive Directors not applicable.
Directors fees Directors with similar responsibilities in remain within the limit of 600,000 set out in the Remunerates companies of comparable size and Articles of Association.
Directors and attracts nonThe remuneration of the non-executive executive Directors of Chairman is determined by the Board suitable calibre.
following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee and Chief Executive.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined by the Board following recommendations from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee having consulted with an external adviser and the Chief Executive.
provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply final award made 2012, no further awards will be made under the LTisp Long Term Annual grant of share awards.
60% subject to three-year relative TsR incentive share performance against a comparator group plan LTisp Three-year vesting period.
comprising FTsE 250 constituents as at the Alignment of interest grant date excluding financial service between participants companies, real estate companies and and shareholders.
40% subject to three-year Adjusted EPs growth targets.
notes on policy table and components of remuneration performance measures and targets Measures for incentive plans reflect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company.
Targets are set by reference to budgeted financials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth outcomes.
Differences in remuneration for all employees The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan.
The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with specific measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTIsP arrangement.
A smaller group of senior management now participates in the LTAP at a reward level appropriate to their role.
Ceo one-off Transformational incentive award At the EGM held in December 2014, shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational Incentive Award TIA to the CEO.
The key terms of the TIA are detailed below: The grant of a nil cost option to acquire Ordinary shares was made to Mark Allen following the EGM.
The option is exercisable three years after grant in December 2017 to the extent that the stretching performance conditions set in relation to the award are achieved as described below.
The grant was made under rules of the LTIsP which were approved by shareholders in 2006 this is the long-term incentive operated by Dairy Crest prior to the introduction of the LTAP.
As set out in the table above, no further awards are intended to be made under the LTIsP.
The award is structured as a base award over Ordinary shares having a market value at grant equivalent to 75% of Mark Allens base salary.
A multiplier of between 0 and 3 times the number of Ordinary shares subject to the base award will be applied to it at the end of the three year vesting period depending on the level of performance achieved.
44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 The Committee will determine the level of vesting of the TIA based on performance objectives which are intended to be demanding.
In measuring performance in this regard, the Committee has identified three categories of objectives on which the assessment of performance will be based.
These relate to the restructuring of the business and its future success, as follows: managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business, requiring strong leadership and a high level of personal involvement from a chief executive officer as an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole through a period of extended uncertainty: appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process: and establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the delivery of value to shareholders.
The objectives set by the Committee include both financial and non-financial objectives.
Where appropriate, the Committee has set a performance range against which threshold, target and stretch performance will be measured.
In addition to the objectives themselves, the Committee will assess the quality of execution of the objectives, including, in particular, in relation to risk, sustainability and shareholder value.
At the end of the three year performance period, the Committee will assess the sum of the evaluations of the individual objectives to determine the total level of vesting of the TIA and may exercise discretion to reduce the level of vesting when reviewing Dairy Crests performance in the round, including the level of value delivered to shareholders over the period.
Updated objectives and performance against the objectives will be disclosed in each Directors Remuneration Report for each of the three financial years during the performance period and full disclosure of the performance levels achieved including the multiplier applied and vesting level will be set out in the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year in which the performance period ends.
It is intended that the annual update provided to shareholders on the objectives and performance assessment will become more detailed over the course of the performance period.
Updated objectives and performance against the objectives for the 2015 16 financial year are set out at pages 52 to 54.
In line with best practice requirements under the Corporate Governance Code, the TIA is subject to malus and clawback provisions set by the Committee.
statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these individuals into consideration when discussing packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not specifically ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors but any comments received are taken into account.
approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in the role.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 45 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the same constraints as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below: Component policy and principles Base salary and The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable benefits companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Companys ability to pay.
should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household items.
In addition, the Committee may grant additional support as appropriate.
Other benefits provided will be aligned to those set out on pages 42 to 44. pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the defined contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and a cash supplement payment above this.
The total benefit will not exceed 23% of Basic salary.
annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
The Policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Any bonus over 50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
Long-term The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long Term Alignment Plan at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
incentives The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 90% of salary.
Associated performance measures would apply as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
replacement The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period awards than the awards forfeited from a new recruits previous employer.
In determining quantum and structure of replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the value taking into account, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of remuneration forgone.
The Committee has the flexibility to use cash and or shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
executive Director Date of commencement of contract notice period M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months Executive Directors service agreements are available on the Companys website www.
non-executive Director Letters of appointment notice period A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months s Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months s Farr 6 October 2011 3 months It is the Companys Policy that non-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years.
A template non-executive Directors letter of appointment is available on the Companys website.
external appointments Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company.
External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and reported to the Board.
Any external appointment must not conflict with a Directors duties and commitments to Dairy Crest.
Fees may be retained by Directors for such appointments.
46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Termination policy The Remuneration Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules including relevant performance conditions.
The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Director service contract and Policy on payment for loss of office.
Component policy and principles notice period 12 months notice from Company.
Compensation for Up to 12 months salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in loss of office in the notice period.
service contracts Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical benefits, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
Under the terms of Mark Allens contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items annual salary, benefits, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period.
This will not be the Companys Policy going forward for other Executive Directors.
Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of office for Mark Allen are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
Treatment of If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, unvested deferred deferred shares may be released on termination.
bonus awards under plan rules Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
Treatment of Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, unvested long-term disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date incentive plan with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the awards under plan award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other rules factors the Committee consider relevant.
A proportion of the LTAP award will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time.
exercise of Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide discretion flexibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
Change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Deferred bonus awards would normally be released in full.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 47 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED illustration of application of remuneration policy updated for 2015 16 A significant proportion of a Directors total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short-term and long-term business objectives.
The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance scenarios for the Executive Directors.
Director Value of package 000s 41% 31% 28% 1,722 Maximum 41% 41% 31% 31% 28% 28% 11, 722 722 m allen Maximum Maximum 52% 20% 28% 1,344 Target Target 52% 52% 20% 20% 28% 28% 1,344 1,344 Target Minimum Fixed 100% 696 100% 696 Minimum Fixed 100% 696 Minimum Fixed 0 300 600 900 1200 1500 1800 0 0 300 300 600 600 900 900 1200 1200 1500 1500 1800 1800 41% 31% 28% 1,085 Maximum 41% 41% 31% 31% 28% 28% 1,085 Maximum 1,085 T atherton Maximum 52% 20% 28% 847 Target 52% 52% 20% 20% 28% 28% 847 847 T Target arget 100% 439 Minimum Fixed 100% 100% 439 439 Minimum Fixed Minimum Fixed 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 0 0 200 200 400 400 600 600 800 800 1000 1000 1200 1200 Key: Fixed Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Long-term Variable Remuneration Key: Fixed Remuneration Annual V Key: Fixed Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Long-term V ariable Remuneration Long-term Variable Remuneration ariable Remuneration notes to the scenarios: Fixed: This element comprises salary as of 1 January 2016 see page 58, pension benefits including salary supplement and other fixed benefits company car, etc as per the last known number.
annual variable remuneration: This element shows annual bonus including any amount deferred at 100% of salary in the maximum scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario.
Long-term variable remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP, at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario and 70% of salary in the target scenario.
no allowance is made for share price growth, in accordance with the requirements of the disclosure rules.
statement of consideration of shareholders views The Committee discusses matters relating to Directors remuneration with major investors on an on-going basis and takes into account any comments which are received.
annual report on remuneration single total figure of remuneration subject to audit The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director.
An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.
The total remuneration for each Director reflects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the on-going success of the Company.
It is important to note that the LTAP award included in the column LTAP LTIsP for 2015 16 is incorporated in the single total figure of remuneration for regulatory reasons with no shares vesting in the year.
Thereforethe actual remuneration earned in 2015 16 for Mark Allen and Tom Atherton was 910k and 537k respectively.
no awards were granted under the LTIsP in 2013 and therefore none will vest under the LTIsP in 2016.
There will be no further awards made under the LTIsP.
For 2015 16, the values included are for the 2013 LTAP.
Awards were subject to a dividend underpin over the period April 2013 March 2016.
The conditions under the dividend underpin were met and the awards are not subject to any further performance conditions they are therefore included in the single figure.
The value of the awards have been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2015 16.
50% of awards will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% willvest on 15 August 2018.
As the vesting period for this award has not yet been completed, no value will be delivered to participants until 2017 2018. ii Pension amounts include employers pension contribution and salary supplement.
Base salary, bonus and LTIsP are defined on pages 42 to 44.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 notes Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus entitlement which would include deferred bonus shares.
no deferred bonus shares were awarded in 2014 15 or 2015 16.
Taxable benefits are valued at the taxable value, and include company car car allowance and private medical insurance.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling 47k 2015: 45k.
additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table subject to audit performance against targets for annual bonus Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short-term financial targets and personal objectives.
To ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between long-term and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the Companys shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Personal bonus objectives for Mark Allen and Tom Atherton for the year were focused on fundamentally restructuring the organisation into category aligned divisions as well as leading a high quality team able to focus on the continuing business operational performance and maintaining employee engagement.
For Mark Allen, objectives also included maintaining key external stakeholder engagement and managing relationships with shareholders, customers and other key third parties during a period of significant uncertainty for the business, leading a strategic restructure of the contractual supply arrangements with dairy farmers, as well as developing leadership capability at Management Board and senior management level.
For Tom Atherton, objectives also included refinancing bank facilities and loan notes, in his role as Chairman of MH Foods: driving revenue, volume and profit growth: and establishing a new IT systems roadmap post the Dairies business sale.
All of above achievements took place in the context of a tough deflationary market where despite the challenging trading environment, if one disregards the performance of the Dairies business, the profit performance of the retained business would have been at a level to deliver a positive bonus pay out for the Operating Profit measure.
It was determined that both individuals met or exceeded the stretching personal objectives set and, as a result, received the maximum amount under this element.
Bonus payouts for the 2015 16 performance year are set out below: maximum outcome as a % of salary potential as a measure Details % of salary Threshold Target maximum actual m allen T atherton operating profit stretching targets based on 45% 46.8m 49.3m 54.2m 32.7m 0% 0% budget, with a sliding scale between threshold and maximum.
Free cash flow stretching targets based on 10% 45.1m 47.5m 52.3m 8.0m 0% 0% budget, with a sliding scale between threshold and maximum.
personal A range of non-financial 15% see description above 15% 15% objectives operational and strategic objectives will be assessed by the Committee, with an appropriate award level set under this element with reference to the overall performance of the business.
Transaction related successful completion of the 30% successful completion Achieved 30% 30% target sale of the Dairies business to Mller triggered a full payout under this element.
Total 100% of 45% of salary 45% of salary salary 235k 138k Deferred into nil nil shares LTap 2013 Awards under the 2013 LTAP were subject to a dividend underpin over the period April 2013 March 2016.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 49 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Dividend Value of underpin awards at Face value number of Dividend underpin conditions 31 march i Director Grant date granted 000s shares granted conditions met?
2016 end of vesting period mark allen 15 August 2013 414 79,329 To increase the dividend Yes 533k 50% on 15 August 2017 over the period April 2013 to 50% on 15 August 2018 March 2016 in line with progressive dividend policy whilst maintaining dividend cover within 1.5-2.5 x range Tom atherton 15 August 2013 160 30,651 Yes 206k 50% on 15 August 2017 for the period April 2013 to 50% on 15 August 2018 March 2016 i The value of the awards has been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2015 16 and includes the dividends accrued to date over the vesting period Current position on other outstanding LTap awards not subject to audit The outstanding LTAP awards are subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 2.5 over the three-year measurement period.
LTap 2014: The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 6.6%, and the dividend cover is 1.7 times.
LTap 2015: The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 6.9%, and the dividend cover is 1.8 times.
Total pension entitlements subject to audit Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a defined benefit scheme to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued pension during the year other than inflationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010.
Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual pension.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton were members of the defined contribution scheme throughout 2015 16.
The Company made contributions of 50,000 for Mark Allen and 40,000 for Tom Atherton incorporating both employee and employer contributions.
Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary.
payments for loss of office subject to audit no payments for loss of office were made in the year under review.
payments to past Directors subject to audit Alastair Murray received 61k from the vesting of the 2012 LTIsP based on his vested award of 9,928 shares.
Martyn Wilks received 160k from the vesting of the 2012 LTIsP based on his vested award of 26,134 shares.
119k was disclosed in the single figure table in the 2014 15 report representing an estimate of Mr Wilks vested award and based on the average share price for the last quarter of that financial year.
scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit LTap 2015 award The award made under the LTAP in 2015 was made on 26 May 2015.
The award level is determined based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
Outcomes against the 2015 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
The outcome against the LTAP scorecard may fall between 0% and 100%, based on assessment of performance against each measure as determined by the Committee and the weighting attributable to each in the table below.
This scorecard percentage outcome then determines the proportion of the award that will be granted, in the range of 50% to 90% of salary for Executive Directors.
As set out in the approved Policy, in any year, in the event of performance below a certain threshold or where the performance against the scorecard for that year is determined not to be a fair reflection of the overall performance of the business, the Committee may determine that no award will be granted.
The maximum opportunity under the LTAP 90% of salary is lower than the typical long-term incentive level in the market, whilst certainty of payout for participants is higher.
note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period and will be settled through nil cost share options.
50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Level of award % of percentage vesting at Director salary Face value 000s threshold performance number of shares end of vesting period mark allen 69.2% 358 n A 71,496 50% at May 2019 50% at May 2020 Tom atherton 69.2% 208 n A 41,437 50% at May 2019 50% at May 2020 The value of the awards has been calculated based on the middle market price on 22 May 2015.
Determination of 2015 grant: measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome 1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year.
Delivery of profit is core to the business 30% 2.5% and supports the progressive dividend Policy.
Balance sheet ROCE target each year whilst Ensuring acceptable return on 15% 2.5% efficiency maintaining net debt EBITDA in the investment within a sustainable level of 1.0-2.0 x range.
Corporate Delivery of annual cost savings targets.
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on 15% 15% activity & an on-going basis.
efficiencies Delivery of synergies and return on investment following acquisitions or Ensuring that major acquisitions successful divestments when relevant.
divestments deliver against relevant synergy and return targets.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and Brand growth is key to longer term 20% 12% three years versus markets in which they business growth.
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of productivity 10% 8% proportion of revenue from innovation in and growth.
Corporate A range of metrics including Delivering results in a sustainable way 10% 8% responsibility improvements in accident incident rates, which enhances reputation and reduced CO emissions & improved stakeholder engagement.
Total 48% For Executive Directors this converts to an award of 69.2% of salary 1. profit Weighting: 30%.
outcome: 2.5% The Remuneration Committee assessed profit performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA in 2014 15 was below prior year in what continued to be a very challenging market.
Our Dairies business has faced very strong competition in liquid milk markets and sharp falls in commodity realisations.
Our branded business performed relatively well in a deflationary market, but overall the Group failed to achieve the challenging EBITDA target it set for itself.
This weaker than expected adjusted EBITDA outcome, resulted in an award of 2.5%.
outcome: 2.5% The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2013 14 through the assessment of ROCE performance calculated based on average operating assets against an annual target based on budget and the long-term objective of 12%.
As in previous years, the Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing being net debt EBITDA remain below 2.0 times.
A ROCE for the year of 11.5% was behind the long-term 12% target but above the vesting level for this element.
2014 15 was a year of significant capital expenditure at Davidstow to support future demineralised whey and GOs production.
However, returns will not start to be generated until 2015 16 and this reduces ROCE in 2014 15.
The outturn of 11.5% is at the bottom of the vesting range.
With a year-end gearing of 2.0 times, at the top end of the range, the Remuneration Committee awarded only 2.5% for this LTAP element.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 51 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED 3.
outcome: 15% Given no major completed M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings.
The Group has, once again, considerably exceeded its 20m cost saving target and the full award of 15% has been made for this measure.
outcome: 12% The key brand performance was mixed.
Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth ahead of the market in 2014 15 when all sales channels were considered, with Cathedral City continuing to significantly outperform the market, Clover increasing market share and FRijj sales up 7%.
Longer-term data showed two of our four key brands outperforming the market.
On this basis the Remuneration Committee decided an award of 12% was appropriate.
outcome: 8% Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from product innovation over the previous three years.
In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue.
Against the challenging targets set, delivering 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as showing both good progress against this component and a competitive positioning to the market.
The Committee also considered the on-going innovation in the non-branded area of the business with increasing use of environmentally friendly light-weighted polybottles.
As a result, an award of 8% was made for this element.
outcome: 8% Good progress has again been made on health and safety with reducing accidents and days lost and showed positive improvement against our environmental targets.
Dairy Crest achieved the maximum 5 star rating in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, further improving on an impressive assessment in 2014.
However, an employee survey was not undertaken in the year, and some quality customer complaint targets were not met.
On balance across these various corporate responsibility measures, the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 8% as appropriate.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2015 March 2018 is not met.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
Ceo one-off Transformational incentive award update on objectives and performance against objectives The Remuneration Committee has determined that the vesting outcome for Mark Allens Transformation Incentive Award TIA will be assessed based on his performance against a number of objectives related to the sale of the Dairies business.
These objectives are grouped across three categories, as follows: 1.
Managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business, requiring strong leadership and a high level of personal involvement from a chief executive officer as an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole through a period of extended uncertainty: 2.
Appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process: and 3.
Establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the delivery of value to shareholders.
In line with the commitment made by the Committee in the 2014 15 Remuneration report, this annual update provides shareholders with further detail on the TIA objectives and performance to date against them subject to any commercial confidentiality constraints that may apply.
1. managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business Under the TIA, Mark Allen was set a number of objectives relating to the success of negotiations and discussions with Mller and the UK Competition and Markets Authority CMA, and the management of the business through the transaction period.
Mark Allen has performed exceptionally in securing the successful completion of the sale of the Dairies business to Mller on 26 December 2015.
Dairy Crests share price has responded positively to the sale and the resulting change in focus, indicating the strength of support our investors have for the transaction.
52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 The outcome of the sale is a clear repositioning of Dairy Crest as a branded and added value business, focusing on growth, cash generation and enhanced shareholder value.
Mark Allens contribution to the delivery of the sale and, in particular, the process of gaining CMA approval at the first stage was crucial to the successful outcome.
The Committee has therefore determined that all objectives in this category have now been successfully completed.
Marks vast experience of Dairy Crest and the broader dairy market meant he was uniquely placed to lead the response to the CMAs review of the sale, providing clear understanding of its impact on the sector and the consumer, and the outcome should the deal not receive approval.
This knowledge and insight were essential in providing the CMA with appropriate information and arguments for their decision to be taken.
Mark led all main interactions with the CMA, and was involved in key meetings and calls with stakeholders within the CMA with whom Mark worked extremely hard to explain the position of the company and the industry.
steering the business through this complex and prolonged regulatory process took a significant proportion of Marks time and commitment, requiring huge energy and tenacity, clear vision and foresight in the thorough planning of Dairy Crests approach.
Mark simultaneously led the ongoing commercial discussions with Mller, directing the team in the negotiations surrounding the deal, applying judgment and experience to the process to achieve an optimum outcome for the Group.
In addition, Mark personally led from the front the communications and engagement process with all staff, customers and suppliers to ensure the business remained focused on the necessary day to day activities whilst preparing all key stakeholders for the most profound change Dairy Crest has experienced since listing on the stock exchange in 1996.
Over this period of uncertainty, Mark successfully led the segmentation of the Dairies functions and ensured a stable and sustainable Dairies business could be transferred to Mller, while ensuring the Group remained focused on service delivery and financial performance.
2. appropriately reshaping the Group A number of TIA objectives are built around a strategic review of the Group following the sale of the Dairies business, implementation of associated structural changes and the delivery of significant cost savings.
During 2015 and prior to the CMAs approval of the sale, Mark led a full review of the Dairy Crest structure, the objective of which was to segment the Dairies business in order to deliver clearer category focus.
This process delivered the intended outputs while also paving the way for a clean business transfer should the sale be approved.
Given the success of the restructure covered above and although the sale was only completed at the end of December 2015, Mark Allen has already made significant progress in achieving the objectives under this element of the TIA and we are confident that he is on track to achieve them in full.
note that some aspects of these objectives are commercially sensitive in nature so the level of granularity around progress that we are able to provide at this time is limited.
Mark has led a strategic review of the organisations structure, with a view to achieving increased simplicity and responsiveness across the organisation.
He has established a refreshed five year business plan following the sale of the Dairies business and has initiated the process of restructuring the organisation.
He has now completed the process of defining the organisational and structural changes required to achieve both the short and long-term plans developed, and has begun the implementation of these.
Over the remainder of the TIA period to 2017, Mark will continue this implementation process with a projected cost saving of 5 million achieved from 2017 18, in line with the pre-determined target.
3. establishing a successful future business This category of objectives is intended to reward for performance in relation to the long-term development of a successful future for Dairy Crest.
We are now half way through the TIA performance period and Marks contribution towards the achievement of this goal has been outstanding to date.
One of the objectives under this category is the successful exploitation of our existing product streams and for effective investments to be made in support of continued brand growth and innovation.
In line with this, major capital investments have now been made within the Butters, spreads and oils business, delivering positive returns to the Company.
The Cheese business continues to show strong overall performance, with Cathedral City maintaining its growth trajectory.
Marks objectives also require the delivery of new product streams to enhance the profitability of the business and develop shareholder returns.
Demineralised whey and GOs are now in production with the installation of manufacturing capability at Davidstow.
We continue to explore opportunities to widen this market, and are seeing exciting developments in the potential use of GOs in the animal feed sector purchase of the remaining 50% interest from our GOs partner has resulted in Dairy Crests full ownership of this dynamic growth opportunity.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 53 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Underlying the success of our future business is a shift towards a predominantly branded and simpler business with a significantly reduced overhead base a further TIA objective.
The successful sale of the Dairies business has resulted in Dairy Crest reducing its exposure to commodity dairy markets and focusing more on the profitable brands which have driven the success of the Company throughout Marks tenure as CEO.
This process will continue, with overhead savings contributing to the 5 million reduction in the cost base we are on track to achieve from 2017 18 as mentioned above.
The next stage of Dairy Crests evolution also requires that we develop the future leadership capability for the business.
Mark has led a review of succession plans for all senior management positions with a framework now in place to ensure effective refreshing of the Dairy Crest talent pool over the next two years.
The above shows the outstanding progress to date achieved by Mark Allen with regard to the objectives set under the TIA.
Marks exceptional performance in delivering the deal to sell the Dairies business and his stewardship of the CMA process has unlocked huge opportunities, which Dairy Crest will exploit under Marks leadership in the coming years.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee, Mark has delivered on, and in some cases considerably exceeded, the targets set to date.
A significant proportion of the business transformation that the TIA was designed to recognise has now been implemented and in the next phase the emphasis is on continued implementation and delivery.
Given the level of positive progress and achievements against the TIA objectives, vesting at the maximum end is currently anticipated.
shareholder dilution In accordance with the guidelines set by the Investment Association IA, the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
Currently 7.6% of issued shares have been made under share plans, with 2.5% under discretionary or executive schemes.
statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests subject to audit Executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end would normally retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved.
shareholdings exclude unvested options under the LTIsP and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton have satisfied the shareholding requirement.
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: number of shares owned outright Deferred including Vested LTisp unvested LTap unvested LTap unvested LTap unvested annual bonus i ii iii iv v vi vii Director connected persons 2012 shares 2013 shares 2014 shares 2015 shares Tia shares shares saYe M Allen 170,865 39,066 87,201 88,870 74,588 252,558 38,001 2,393 T Atherton 6,097 5,283 33,693 44,639 43,229 14,250 4,787 A Carr-Locke 2,000 R Macdonald 1,000 s Alexander 1,000 s Farr 4,465 i Vested but unexercised LTIsP 2012 nil cost share options ii Long term Alignment Plan 2013 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2016.
50% of awards will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report iii Long term Alignment Plan 2014 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2017.
50% of awards will vest on 16 December 2018 and 50% will vest on 16 December 2019.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report iv Long term Alignment Plan 2015 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2018.
50% of awards will vest on 26 May 2019 and 50% will vest on 26 May 2020.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report v One-off transformational award to the CEO nil cost share options : The performance period will end 23 December 2017 and awards will vest shortly after.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report vi Deferred bonus scheme nil cost share options vii save As You Earn scheme 2014 cost options.
The exercise price for these options is 376 pence per share and the exercise period is 9 2017 2 2018.
There are no applicable performance conditions There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 March 2016 and 18 May 2016.
54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 260 240 220 200 180 60 1 140 120 100 0 8 Gain on exercise of share options number of options market value at exercise Gain on exercise of share Director exercised option exercise price date s options s M Allen 3,202 281p 18,828 9,830 T Atherton nil nil nil nil performance graph and table The graph below sets out for the seven years ended 31 March 2016 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTsE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest Total Shareholder Returns for 100 invested Dairy Crest Group plc FTSE 250 excluding investment companies March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15 March 16 The table below sets out CEO pay over the same period.
The vesting period for this award has not yet been completed 50% will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018 percentage change in Ceos remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2014 15 and 2015 16, compared with the percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for those salaried members of the clerical, administrative, supervisory and management population allocated to Hay bands.
This group comprises 41% of the total workforce, and has been identified as the most appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements: salary Taxable benefits Bonus 2015 16 2014 15 % change 2015 16 2014 15 % change 2015 16 2014 15 % change Ceo 000s 523 518 1% 32 29 10% 235 97 142% average pay for wider 47 41 14.6% 5.1 4.9 4% 4.6 1.1 318% employee population 000s The figures for 2014 15 are based upon the relevant workforce within the Dairy Crest business including those employed within the Dairies business.
The 2015 16 figures are based upon and reflect the change in the workforce of the Dairy Crest business post the sale of the Dairiesbusiness.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 55 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 2014 15 and 2015 16: m 2015 16 2014 15 % change employee remuneration 44.3 144.0 -69.2% costs Dividends 30.0 29.2 3% The figures used for the 2014 15 employee remuneration costs are based upon the workforce within the Dairy Crest business, including those employed within the Dairies business.
The 2015 16 figures are based upon and reflect the change in the workforce of the Dairy Crest business post the sale of the Dairies business.
LTap 2016 award The award made under the LTAP 2016 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
This award will be granted later in 2016.
Outcomes against the 2016 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
Director Level of award % of salary Face value 000s end of vesting period mark allen 67.6% 365 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date Tom atherton 67.6% 230 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Determination of 2016 grant: measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome 1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each Delivery of profit is core to the 30% 0% year.
business and supports the progressive dividend Policy.
Balance sheet ROCE target each year whilst Ensuring acceptable return on 20% 0% efficiency maintaining net debt EBITDA in investment within a sustainable the 1.0-2.0 x range.
Corporate activity & Delivery of annual cost savings Ensuring cost savings are 15% 15% efficiencies targets.
delivered on an on-going basis.
Delivery of synergies and return Ensuring that major on investment following acquisitions divestments acquisitions or successful deliver against relevant synergy divestments when relevant.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over Brand growth is key to longer 20% 15% one and three years versus term business growth.
markets in which they operate.
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of 10% 10% proportion of revenue from productivity and growth.
innovation in previous three years.
Corporate Range of metrics aligned to the Delivering results in a 5% 4% responsibility 40 pledges including sustainable way which improvements in accident enhances reputation and incident rates, reduced CO stakeholder engagement.
2 emissions & improved maintained BITC score.
Total 44% For Executive Directors this converts to an award of 67.6% of salary 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 1. profit Weighting: 30%.
outcome: 0% EBITDA for 2015 16 was below the target threshold due to the higher than anticipated losses in the Dairies business up until the date of disposal.
It reflected the challenges faced throughout the year versus the Groups budget expectations in a heavily deflating dairy environment with the added pressure that a prolonged Dairies business disposal had on the commercial performance of the liquid milk business.
This weaker than expected EBITDA outcome resulted in 0% pay out.
outcome: 0% The KPI is targeted ROCE operating profit average operating assets with an additional requirement that gearing should be between 1.0 and 2.0 times.
With regards to ROCE, the long-term objective was to maintain this above 12% with individual targets and ranges set each year by reference to budget.
The ROCE for 2015 16 based on a post-disposal operating asset position was 15%.
This demonstrates the transformational effect on ROCE that the disposal of the dairies business delivers.
However, year-end gearing net debt: EBITDA was above the upper end of the target range of between 1.0 and 2.0 times.
staying within the range is an underpinning requirement for an award under the Balance sheet efficiency measure and therefore, no award was made under this element.
outcome: 15% The KPI is targeted full year effect of cost efficiency projects initiated in any year and delivery of synergies and returns on acquisitions.
Where there is no acquisition activity, the cost efficiency projects can deliver the full 15% award and this was the case in 2015 16.
In 2015 16 great success was achieved in removing costs ahead of target up until the disposal of the Dairies business.
For the final quarter, cost saving could not be maintained at this level given that the Dairies business accounted for much of the scale of the organisation.
Although there was no relevant delivered M&A integration activity in 2015 16, related activity that was successfully delivered included the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of Promovita Ingredients Limited for a consideration of 6 million giving Dairy Crest sole control over the development of the GOs business and the segmentation of the Dairies business from the combined Group.
The Remuneration Committee recognised the cost savings achieved ahead of target up to the point of sale of the Dairies business and the successful business split along with the long-term strategic importance of the acquisition of the balance of ownership of Promovita Ingredients Limited.
On the basis of this performance it decided that a 15% payout for this element was merited.
outcome: 15% Key brand performance was strong in a deflationary marketplace.
The Remuneration Committee considered robust quantitative IRI and Kantar Worldpanel data for all brands in reviewing this element.
Cathedral City, Country Life and Frylight all grew share over 12 months.
Over a three year timeframe Cathedral City, Clover and Frylight have all grown value share.
On this basis the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 15% was appropriate.
outcome: 10% The group target for innovation is that 10% of revenue should be from product innovation over the last three years.
In the year ended 31 March 2016 a number of new innovations were brought to market including re-launched Clover with no artificial ingredients and new coconut and rapeseed variants of Frylight which helped drive the percentage of key brand revenue from innovation in the preceding three years to 11%.
In addition the Remuneration Committee recognised innovation in other areas of the business including the opening of the new innovation centre at Harper Adams University, new supplier arrangements for spreadable cheese with Hochland who are helping us to develop further a stronger cheese nPD pipeline, and the arrangement with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd that gives us the opportunity to grow warehousing volumes whilst planning for the completion of the distribution agreement with Mller.
On this basis an award of 10% was made.
outcome: 4% Our 2015 16 safety record has been better than was targeted.
Customer complaints generally have been low and any quality issues have been addressed fully to investigate root cause and implement improved procedures.
Energy usage was 6% below budget and carbon emissions were better than target and 13% below last year.
There was no Employee survey conducted during 2015 16 due to the sizeable people impact of the sale of the Dairies business.
However, considerable effort was put into maintaining employee engagement via enhanced communications and the inclusion of a sale related component in the Bonus scheme for all Hay employees.
The Remuneration Committee felt that corporate responsibility performance had generally been better than target and a pay-out of 4% wasagreed.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 57 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2016 March 2019 is not met.
statement of implementation of policy in the following financial year The Directors Remuneration Policy will be implemented for the 2016 17 financial year as follows: Base salary 000s role 2015 Change to base salary effective 1 January 2016 mark allen 518 540 Tom atherton 300 340 Tom Atherton was brought onto the Board at a salary level below the market lower quartile for his role.
In line with the Remuneration Committees intent as stated in the 2013 Remuneration Report, he has been an awarded an increase for 2016 to bring his salary closer towards a market competitive level.
The 13.3% increase reflects our ongoing intention to move Tom Atherton to a market median positioning recognising excellent performance and development in role.
Future increases to Tom Athertons salary are expected to be in line with inflation and the wider workforce subject to any change potentially required in the future to ensure a continued competitive positioning as per our remuneration policy.
non-executive Directors fees 000s role 2015 16 effective 1 april 2016 non-executive Chairman 155 155 non-executive Director 38 38 base audit Committee Chair 5 5 Corporate responsibility 5 5 Chair remuneration Committee 5 5 Chair senior independent 5 5 Director Fees for non-executive Directors have remained unchanged since the 2011 12 financial year Bonus measures Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the 2016 17 bonus remains at 100% of salary.
Performance will be assessed against the following measures: Profit before tax 60% of award Free cash flow 15% of award Personal objectives 25% of award The targets for the 2016 17 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the Companys competitors.
The targets and payout against them will be disclosed in the 2016 17 report.
Malus and clawback provisions will operate in respect of the 2016 17 bonus.
The malus provision will apply to the deferred share awards up to vesting.
The clawback provision will apply to the cash award for three years from the date of payment.
Clawback may be operated in the event of gross misconduct on the part of the employee and or material misstatement in Company or Group financial statements.
58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 LTap 2017 award A grant will be made in 2017 under the LTAP, in line with the disclosed Policy.
As the grant will be based on a scorecard of metrics assessed over the 2016 17 financial year, below we set out the scorecard which will determine the grants made in 2017.
We have included the 2016 17 KPIs on which performance will be assessed and the associated alignment to strategy.
We have not included specific targets on the KPIs, as the targets are considered commercially sensitive.
The outcomes for this award will be disclosed in the 2016 17 Directors Remuneration Report.
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting profit Adjusted EBITDA target Delivery of profit is core to the business and 30% supports the progressive dividend policy Balance sheet efficiency ROCE target whilst maintaining net debt Ensuring acceptable return on investment 20% EBITDA in the 1-2 range within a sustainable level of gearing Corporate activity and Delivery of annual cost savings targets Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an 15% efficiencies on-going basis Delivery of synergies and return on investment following acquisitions or Ensuring that major acquisitions successful divestments when relevant divestments deliver against relevant synergy and return targets Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and three Brand growth is key to longer term 20% years versus markets in which they operate business growth revenue Growth through Achieve each year, the targeted proportion Innovation is a key driver of productivity and 10% innovation of revenue from innovation in previous three growth years Corporate responsibility Range of metrics aligned to the CR pledges Delivering results in a sustainable way 5% including improvements in accident which enhances reputation and incident rates, reduced CO emissions and stakeholder engagement 2 improved maintained BITC score Measures and KPIs for 2016 17 are consistent with 2015 16 and support the long-term strategy of the Group.
The LTAP maintains a minimum 60% weighting of financial KPIs within the 2016 17 scorecard.
sharesave scheme The sharesave scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors.
Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a three year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of 500 per month.
At the end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant.
Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the market price at the time of grant.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration members of the remuneration Committee The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of non-executive Directors of the Company.
During the year the Committee consisted of: Richard Macdonald Chairman : Andrew Carr-Locke: and sue Farr.
stephen Alexander in his capacity as Company Chairman and Mark Allen, Chief Executive attended the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Company.
The Committees activities during the financial year The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad Policy with respect to senior executives salary and other remuneration.
It specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 59 Governance DIRECTORs REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED In 2015 16, the Committee met 4 times.
Attendance at meetings by members of the Committee is shown on page 33.
The Committee discussed, amongst other matters, the following matters: meeting agenda items discussed may 2015 Approval of 2014 15 Bonus, LTAP and LTIsP outcomes Approval of 2015 16 Bonus rules, 2015 16 Bonus targets and LTAP targets Executive Directors Remuneration Approval of Remuneration Report october 2015 Review of Remuneration Committee Advisers Changes in Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Updates to reporting shareshave 2016 December 2015 Executive Directors Remuneration march 2016 Review of draft Remuneration Report Review of potential bonus and long-term incentive outcomes advisers to the remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has appointed  LLP PwC to provide advice on executive remuneration.
PwC have provided such advice historically, and were originally appointed through a competitive tendering process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and market practice, and providing remuneration benchmarking information for Executive Directors.
In this financial year, they were paid 50,433 based on agreed hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including corporate tax advice, share plans support and programme management support.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to that groups Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR Director of Dairy Crest.
The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation, but is not present at any discussions relating specifically to his own remuneration.
statement of voting at General meeting The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2014 15 remuneration report at the 2015 AGM.
number of votes cast For against Withheld 71,693,142 45,426,747 26,190,774 75,621 63.4% 36.6% The Remuneration Committee noted the outcome of the advisory vote at the 2015 AGM and remains committed to an open dialogue with investors, with engagement planned through the period ahead of the AGM.
The Directors remuneration report from pages 41 to 60 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by richard macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 May 2016 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
