68 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are DIRECTORS dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as key consistent and responsible growth REMUNERATION POLICY drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors Variable with performance: A significant proportion of total remuneration.
The policy was put to shareholders for approval in a remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business and binding vote at the AGM in 2014, in accordance with section 439A individual performance so that remuneration will increase or of the Companies Act 2006, and formally came into effect from decrease in line with performance.
18 September 2014, the date of the AGM.
The policy section of the report below is as disclosed in the 2014 Directors remuneration Share ownership: Full participation in incentives is conditional upon report, with the exception of the reference to the number of building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo to employees across Diageo, a minor addition to the DLTIP section of ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
the policy table to reflect the clarification note released following Cost effectiveness: Fixed elements of remuneration are determined publication of the 2014 Directors remuneration report, updates to by reference to the median of the market, individual experience the illustrations of remuneration policy charts to reflect projected and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure remuneration for 2017 and amendments to reflect the change in competitiveness while controlling fixed costs to maximise incumbent for the Chief Financial Officer role.
policy as disclosed in the 2014 Directors remuneration report can be found on the Diageo website at: http: www.
com en-row Future policy table newsmedia Pages resource.
Set out below is the remuneration policy for Executive Directors which has been applied from the date of shareholder approval at Remuneration policy framework the AGM on 18 September 2014.
The remuneration structures and performance measures used in executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business strategy as follows: Focused on consistent growth drivers: As a public limited company, Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise long-term value Base salary Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Supports the attraction and retention of the best global talent with Provides market competitive and cost effective benefits.
the capability to deliver Diageos strategy and performance goals.
Operation Operation The provision of benefits depends on the country of residence of Normally reviewed annually or following a change in the Executive Director and may include a company car or car responsibilities with changes usually taking effect from 1 October.
allowance, the provision of a car and contracted car service or equivalent, product allowance, life insurance, accidental death & The Remuneration Committee considers the following disability insurance, medical cover for the Executive Director and parameters when reviewing base salary levels: family and financial counselling.
Pay increases for other employees across the group: The Remuneration Committee has discretion to offer additional Economic conditions and governance trends: allowances, or benefits, to Executive Directors, if considered The individuals performance, skills and responsibilities: appropriate and reasonable.
These may include relocation Base salaries and total remuneration at companies of similar expenses, housing allowance and school fees where a Director size and international scope to Diageo, with roles typically has to relocate from his her home location as part of their benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE100 by appointment.
market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial services sector, or against similar comparator groups in other Opportunity locations dependent on the Executive Directors home market.
The benefits package is set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers: Opportunity Provides an appropriate level of benefits depending on the role Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to and individual circumstances: and other employees in relevant markets in which Diageo operates, typically the United Kingdom and the United States, unless there is Is in line with comparable roles in companies of a similar size and a change in role or responsibility, or the need to align an Executive complexity in the relevant market.
Directors salary to market level over time provided the increase is merited by the individuals contribution and performance.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Directors remuneration report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 69 Post-retirement provisions Diageo long-term incentive plan DLTIP Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Provides cost-effective, competitive post-retirement benefits.
Provides focus on delivering superior long-term returns to shareholders.
Operation Provision of market competitive pension arrangements or Operation a cash alternative based on a percentage of base salary.
An annual grant of performance shares and or market price share options which vest subject to a performance test and continued Further detail on current pension provisions for Executive employment normally over a period of three years.
Directors is disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Measures and stretching targets are reviewed annually by the Opportunity Remuneration Committee for each new award.
Details of the The maximum company pension contribution is 30% of base measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial year salary for any new external appointments to an Executive under review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
Following vesting there is a further retention period of two years.
Current legacy company contributions for Ivan Menezes and Executive Directors are able to exercise an option or sell sufficient Deirdre Mahlan in the year ended 30 June 2016 were 40% and shares to cover any tax liability when an award vests, provided 35% of base salary, respectively.
At his request, Ivan Menezes they retain the net shares arising for the two-year retention company contribution was reduced from 40% to 30% effective period.
Kathryn Mikells company contribution in the year Notional dividends accrue on performance share awards to ended 30 June 2016 was 20% of base salary.
the extent that the performance conditions have been met, delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee at the end of the vesting period.
Annual incentive plan AIP The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares Purpose and link to strategy which vest subject to HMRC rules regarding approved share Incentivises year-on-year delivery of Diageos annual financial and options, for example in the event of a material performance strategic targets.
Provides focus on key financial metrics and the failure, or a material restatement of the accounts.
There is an individuals contribution to the companys performance.
extensive malus clause for awards made from September 2014.
Operation The Committee has discretion to decide that: Performance measures and stretching targets are set annually the number of shares subject to the award will be reduced: the award will lapse: by the Remuneration Committee by reference to the annual retention shares i. e. vested shares subject to the additional operating plan.
two-year retention period will be forfeited: The level of award is determined with reference to Diageos vesting of the award or the end of any retention period will be overall financial and strategic performance and individual delayed e. g. until an investigation is completed : performance and is paid out in cash after the end of the additional conditions will be imposed on the vesting of the financial year.
award or the end of the retention period: and or The Committee has discretion to amend the level of payment any award, bonus or other benefit which might have been if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the individuals granted or paid to the participant in any later year will be contribution or the overall business performance.
Any reduced or not awarded.
discretionary adjustments will be detailed in the following Malus provisions will apply up to delivery of shares at the end years annual report on remuneration.
of the retention period as opposed to the vesting date.
The Committee has discretion to apply clawback to bonus, i. e. Further details of the DLTIP are set out in the annual report the company may seek to recover bonus paid, in exceptional on remuneration on pages 76-79. circumstances such as gross misconduct or gross negligence Opportunity during the performance period.
The maximum annual grant is 500% of salary in performance Details of the AIP are set out in the annual report on share equivalents where a market price option is valued at remuneration on pages 75 and 76. one-third of a performance share.
As clarified in the statement of further information on 15 August 2014, under the DLTIP no more Opportunity than 375% of salary will be awarded in face value terms For threshold performance, up to 50% of salary may be earned, in options to any Executive Director in any year.
with up to 100% of salary earned for on-target performance and a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding performance.
Threshold vesting level of 20% of maximum with straight-line vesting up to 100% at maximum for financial metrics and a Performance conditions ranking profile for relative total shareholder return.
Annual incentive plan awards are based 70%-90% on financial measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, profit and cash and 10%-30% on broader objectives based on individual contribution and medium-term strategic goals.
Details of the measures and weightings applicable for the year ending 30 June 2017 are set out on page 76.
Details of the targets will be disclosed retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Board.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 70 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE Diageo long-term incentive plan DLTIP Performance conditions Performance measures and targets The vesting of awards is linked to a range of measures which may Further details of AIP performance measures and DLTIP performance include, but are not limited to: measures and targets that will apply for awards made in September a growth measure e. g. net sales, eps : 2016, and how they are aligned with company strategy and the a measure of efficiency e. g. operating margin, operating creation of shareholder value, are set out in the annual report on cash conversion, return on invested capital ROIC : and remuneration, on pages 76 and 79. a measure of Diageos relative performance in relation to Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, and its peers e. g. relative total shareholder return.
take into account the companys strategic priorities and business Measures that apply to performance shares and market price environment.
The Committee sets targets based on a range of options may differ, as is the case for current awards.
Weightings reference points including the corporate strategy and broker may vary year-on-year, subject to a minimum weighting of forecasts for both Diageo and its peers.
Details of the measures, including targets Differences in remuneration policy for other employees for the awards to be made in September 2016 are set out on The remuneration approach for Executive Directors is consistent with page 79. the reward package for members of the Executive Committee and The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the the senior management population.
performance conditions in exceptional circumstances if it Generally speaking, a much higher proportion of total considers it appropriate to do so, e. g. in cases of accounting remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business changes, M&A activities and disposals.
Any such amendments performance, compared to the rest of the employee population, would be fully disclosed and explained in the following years so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with business annual report on remuneration.
performance and to align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
The structure of the reward package for the wider employee population is based on the principle that it should be All-employee share plans sufficient to attract and retain the best talent and be competitive Purpose and link to strategy within our broader industry, remunerating employees for their To encourage broader employee share ownership through locally contribution linked to our holistic performance whilst mindful not approved plans.
It is driven by local market practice as well as level of seniority and accountability, reflecting the global nature of Operation Diageos business.
The company operates tax-efficient all-employee share savings plans in various jurisdictions.
Executive Directors eligibility may depend on their country of residence, tax status and employment company.
Opportunity Limits for all employee share plans are set by the tax authorities.
The company may choose to set its own lower limits.
Performance conditions UK Freeshares: based on Diageo plc financial measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, profit and cash.
Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategy Ensures alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation The minimum shareholding requirement is 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base salary for any other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors have five years from their appointment to the Board in which to build up their shareholding.
Full participation in the DLTIP is conditional upon meeting this requirement beyond the five-year timeframe.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Directors remuneration report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 71 Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy Approach to recruitment remuneration The graphs below illustrate scenarios for the projected total The Remuneration Committees overarching principle for recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors at three different levels of remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract an performance: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Note that the Executive Director of the calibre required to shape and deliver projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
Diageos business strategy in recognition that Diageo competes for These charts reflect projected remuneration for the financial year talent in a global marketplace.
The Committee will seek to align the ending 30 June 2017. remuneration package with Diageos remuneration policy as laid out above, but retains the discretion to offer a remuneration package which is necessary to meet the individual circumstances of the Ivan Menezes recruited Executive Director and to enable the hiring of an individual 100% Total $2,244 1,516 Minimum with the necessary skills and expertise.
However, except as described below, variable pay will follow the policy.
42% 29% 29% Total $5,345 3,612 On-target Diageo is a global organisation operating in more than 180 Maximum 17% 24% 59% Total $13,097 8,849 countries around the world.
The ability, therefore, to recruit and retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to the future success Thousands 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 of the business.
People diversity in all its forms is a core element of Diageos global talent strategy and, managed effectively, is a key Kathryn Mikells driver that will deliver Diageos performance ambition.
100% Total 840 Minimum On appointment of an external Executive Director, the Committee may decide to compensate for variable remuneration elements the 39% 31% 30% Total 2,140 On-target Director forfeits when leaving their current employer.
In doing so, Maximum 16% 25% 59% Total 5,348 the Committee will ensure that any such compensation would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, and would Thousands 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 generally be determined on a comparable basis taking into account factors including the form in which the awards were granted, Salary, benets and pension Annual incentive performance conditions attached, the probability of the awards Long-term incentives vesting e. g. past, current and likely future performance as well as the vesting schedules.
Depending on individual circumstances at the Basis of calculation and assumptions: time, the Committee has the discretion to determine the type of The Minimum scenario shows fixed remuneration only, i. e. base salary for financial year award i. e. cash, shares or options, holding period and whether or not 2017, total value of contractually agreed benefits for 2017, and pension.
The pension value is based on the estimated pension benefits accrued over the financial year ending performance conditions would apply.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration Any such award would be fully disclosed and explained in the packages which are not subject to performance conditions.
following years annual report on remuneration.
When exercising its The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target pay-out of discretion in establishing the reward package for a new Executive 50% of the maximum annual bonus and threshold performance vesting for long-term incentive awards.
Director, the Committee will very carefully consider the balance between the need to secure an individual in the best interests of the The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay-out of annual and company against the concerns of investors about the quantum in the long-term incentives.
remuneration and, if considered appropriate at the time, will consult with the companys biggest shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will provide timely disclosure of the reward package of any new Executive Director.
In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 72 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office including takeover provisions Executive Directors have rolling service contracts, details of which are set out below.
These are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Ivan Menezes 7 May 2013 Kathryn Mikells 1 October 2015 Deirdre Mahlan 1 July 2010 Notice period The contracts provide for a period of six months notice by the Executive Director or 12 months notice by the company.
A payment may be made in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary and the cost to the company of providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
The service contracts also provide for the payment of outstanding pay and bonus, if Executive Directors are terminated following a takeover, or other change of control of Diageo plc.
If, on the termination date, the Executive Director has exceeded his her accrued holiday entitlement, the value of such excess may be deducted by the company from any sums due to him her, except to the extent that such deduction would subject the Executive Director to additional tax under Section 409A of the Code in the case of Ivan Menezes.
If the Executive Director on the termination date has accrued but untaken holiday entitlement, the company will, at its discretion, either require the Executive Director to take such unused holiday during any notice period or make a payment to him her in lieu of it, provided always that if the employment is terminated for cause then the Executive Director will not be entitled to any such payment.
For these purposes, salary in respect of one day of holiday entitlement will be calculated as 1 261 of salary.
Mitigation The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to require a proportion of the termination payment to be paid in instalments and, upon the Executive Director commencing new employment, to be subject to mitigation except where termination is within 12 months of a takeover, or within such 12 months the Executive Director leaves due to a material diminution in status.
In the case of Deirdre Mahlan, the mitigation provision may be excluded in the event of termination as a result of being located permanently outside the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Annual incentive plan Where the Executive Director leaves for reasons including retirement, death in service, disability, ill-health, injury, AIP redundancy, transfer out of the group and other circumstances at the Remuneration Committees discretion Good Leaver Reasons during the financial year, they are usually entitled to an incentive payment pro-rated for the period of service during the performance period, which is typically payable at the usual payment date.
Where the Executive Director leaves for any other reason, no payment will be made.
The amount is subject to performance conditions being met and at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has discretion to determine an earlier payment date, for example on death in service.
Diageo 2014 long-term When an Executive Director leaves for any reason other than Good Leaver Reasons, all unvested awards generally incentive plan DLTIP lapse immediately.
In cases where Good Leaver Reasons apply, awards vest on the original vesting date unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
The retention period for vested awards continues for all leavers other than in cases of disability, ill health or death in service, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The proportion of the award released depends on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
The number of shares is reduced on a pro-rata basis reflecting the length of time the Executive Director was employed by the company during the performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
On a takeover or other corporate event, awards vest subject to the extent to which the performance conditions are met and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, the awards are time pro-rated.
Otherwise the Committee, in agreement with the new company, may decide that awards should be swapped for awards over shares in the new company: where awards are granted in the form of options then on vesting they are generally exercisable for 12 months or six months for approved options.
Awards may be adjusted on a variation of share capital, demerger or other similar event.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the plans, except that any changes to the advantage of participants require shareholder approval, unless the change relates to the administration, or taxation of the plan or participants, or is needed to ensure that the plans operate effectively in another jurisdiction.
Details of existing awards are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Repatriation In cases where an Executive Director was recruited from outside the United Kingdom and has been relocated to the United Kingdom as part of their appointment, the company will pay reasonable costs for the repatriation of Good Leavers.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Directors remuneration report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 73 Existing arrangements Chairman of the Board and Non-Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
remuneration payments and payments for loss of office A summary of their terms and conditions of appointment notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out is available at www.
The Chairman of the Board, above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Dr Franz B Humer, commenced his appointment on 1 July 2008.
Dr policy or the relevant legislation came into effect or ii at a time Humer had a letter of appointment for an initial five-year term from when the relevant individual was not a Director of the company 1 July 2008 which has been extended to 31 December 2016.
It is and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in terminable on six months notice by either party or, if terminated consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the by the company, by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
For these purposes payments include the Committee Dr Humer will step down as Chairman of the Board on 1 January satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an 2017 and will be replaced by Javier Ferrn, who joined the Board award over shares, the terms of the payment which are agreed at on 22 July 2016. the time the award is granted including awards under the PSP and SESOP.
Details of outstanding share awards are set out in the annual Opportunity report on remuneration.
For the purposes of section 226D 6 of the Fees for Non-Executive Directors are within the limits set by the Companies Act, the effective date is the end of the financial year shareholders from time to time, currently an aggregate of starting in 2014.
1,000,000, as approved by shareholders at the October 2005 AGM.
This limit excludes the Chairmans fees.
External appointments Current fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on Executive Directors may accept external appointments as Nonremuneration.
Executive Directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them, subject to the specific approval of the Board in each case.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company When reviewing and determining pay for Executive Directors, Chairman of the Board and Non-Executive Directors the Committee takes into account the level and structure of Purpose and link to strategy remuneration as well as salary budgets for other employees in the Supports the attraction, motivation and retention of world-class group.
More specifically, the Committee reviews annual salary talent and reflects the value of the individual, their skills and increase budgets for the general employee population in the United experience, and performance.
Kingdom and North America as well as the remuneration structure and policy for the global Senior Management population.
Operation Diageo employs 32,078 employees and operates in more than Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are normally 180 countries around the world.
Given its global scale and complexity, reviewed annually.
the Committee has not consulted directly with employees when A proportion of the Chairmans annual fee is used for the designing the remuneration policy for its Executive Directors.
monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be Diageo runs annual employee surveys which give employees the retained until the Chairman retires from the company or ceases opportunity to give feedback and express their views on a variety to be a Director.
Any comments relating to Executive Directors remuneration are fed back to the Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in the top Remuneration Committee.
30 companies in the FTSE100 by market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial services sector and anticipated Consideration of shareholder views workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
The Committee values the continued dialogue with Diageos The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate shareholders and engages directly with them and their in any of the companys incentive plans or receive pension representative bodies at the earliest opportunity when setting out contributions or benefits.
Diageos remuneration policy and approach, proposed base salary The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are eligible to increases for the Executive Directors and targets for the long-term receive a product allowance or cash equivalent at the same level incentive plan award.
This year, the company has engaged with as the Executive Directors.
shareholders about the base salary proposals for 2016, the fee review for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, long-term incentive plan targets for awards to be made in 2016 as well as the buy-out share award to the Chief Financial Officer on appointment to the company.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
