66 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
This report complies with the UK Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations 2013 and contains: The Directors remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders at the AGM in September 2014.
The annual report on remuneration, describing how the remuneration policy has been put into practice during the year ended 30 June 2016.
There have been no changes to the Directors remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and it is reproduced in full for both ease of reference and to provide context to the decisions taken by the Committee during the year.
The annual remuneration report will be put forward for your consideration and approval by advisory vote at the AGM on 21 September 2016.
Diageos remuneration principles The principles underpinning executive remuneration remain fundamentally unchanged, with sustainable performance and long-term value creation for shareholders at the heart of our remuneration policies and practices: Delivery of business strategy: Shortand long-term incentive plans for Executive Directors and senior managers reward the achievement of Diageos business strategy and performance goals.
Consistent performance: The focus is on the delivery of performance in a consistent and responsible way which also creates long-term value for our shareholders.
Alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders remains a key principle, with Executive Directors required to acquire and hold Diageo shares over the long term.
Performance-related compensation: Reward components offer a balanced mix of shortand long-term incentives conditional upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Performance measures such as organic net sales, organic operating margin, cash efficiency, relative total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share eps growth are key drivers of growth for the business that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Competitive total remuneration: Reward levels are framed in the context of total remuneration packages paid by relevant global comparators.
In competition with similar global companies, the ability to recruit and retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to Diageos continued business success.
Simplicity and transparency: The Committee seeks to embed simplicity and transparency in the design and delivery of executive reward programmes.
Performance targets clearly align with the companys shortand long-term goals.
Focus and highlights in 2016 The Committee continued its focus on: Understanding and responding to shareholder feedback and fostering continuous open dialogue: Reviewing and assessing the ongoing appropriateness of the current remuneration policy, executive plan design and target stretch: and Ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain the highest quality global talent with a clear link between performance and reward.
The Committee undertook a comprehensive review of total remuneration for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members ahead of the 2016 annual salary review, and, supported by the Committees third party remuneration advisers, Kepler a brand of Mercer, were satisfied that the shape and levels of our remuneration practice are appropriately positioned against those of comparator companies of similar size and global scope.
The Chief Executive, Ivan Menezes, requested that the company contribution to his retirement benefit plan be reduced from 40% to 30% of salary.
This change was implemented on 1 July 2016.
There was no compensatory payment or benefit in exchange for this reduction in contribution.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Directors remuneration report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 67 On 9 November 2015, Kathryn Mikells joined the company and was appointed Chief Financial Officer.
In accordance with the approved remuneration policy, the Committee agreed a remuneration package that was in line with current practice at the Executive Committee level in terms of the mix of fixed and variable remuneration and also appropriately positioned against the external market.
During the year, the Committee also reviewed and increased the Chairmans fee from 500,000 to 600,000 per annum effective from 1 January 2016, following five successive years of no increases.
The Chairmans fee is appropriately positioned against our comparator group of FTSE30 companies excluding financial services.
The next review is scheduled for December 2017.
Dr Franz B Humer will step down as Chairman of the Board on 1 January 2017 and will be succeeded by Javier Ferrn, who joined the Board on 22 July 2016.
Javier Ferrns fee from 1 January 2017 will be 600,000 per annum.
Following a comprehensive review of competitive market data, the Board also reviewed the fees for Non-Executive Directors and increased the basic fee from 84,000 to 87,000 per annum and the additional Senior Non-Executive Director fee from 20,000 to 25,000 per annum, also effective from 1 January 2016.
The clawback provisions in respect of annual incentive and long-term incentive awards to the Executive Directors have now been extended to all members of the Executive Committee, in addition to the existing malus provisions that apply to all participants under the Diageo Long-term Incentive Plan, as approved by the Committee last year.
Reward in 2016 at a glance Base salary 2% increase for both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in October 2016 versus budgeted 2.2% in the United Kingdom and 3% in North America for the wider workforce Allowances and benefits Unchanged from last year Retirement benefits Unchanged from last year Annual incentive Pay-out above target, delivering 64.8% and 69.8% of maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively Long-term incentives 30.6% vesting of performance shares and nil vesting of share options As a reflection of the companys delivery of a good set of results in the year see key performance indicators on pages 8 and 9, total variable pay to the Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 30 June 2016 is higher than the year ended 30 June 2015.
Over the period 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2016 the performance period for long-term incentive awards that vest this year in September 2016, Diageos share price grew by 7.9%, from 1933.5 pence to 2086.5 pence, and the company paid a total dividend of 160.0 pence per share.
Dividend distribution to shareholders in the year ended 30 June 2016 increased by 7.6% compared to the previous year.
Planned for 2017 Looking ahead to the year ending 30 June 2017, we will continue to operate executive remuneration arrangements in line with the approved remuneration policy.
No changes are proposed to the design of the annual or long-term incentive plan for the year ahead.
We will be reviewing our remuneration policy and actively engaging with shareholders and their advisory bodies in advance of putting the policy to shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
As you read our remuneration policy and annual remuneration report on the following pages, I hope it is clear how the Committees decisions support the business strategy and the delivery of Diageos performance ambition.
We were very pleased to receive a very strong vote in favour of our remuneration report last year.
I highly value the direct engagement and feedback from our shareholders and their representative bodies on Diageos remuneration policy and look forward to welcoming you and receiving your support again at the AGM this year.
Lord Davies of Abersoch Senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee PDF Page: 56 87. p12.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
