STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors remuneration report MEMBERS o Kevin Higgins Chairman o Steve Barber o Helen Keays In 2014, LTIP awards were made to David Wild over 947,652 Ordinary CHAIRMANS SUMMARY STATEMENT shares after adjustment for the three-for-one sub-division of shares effective on 27 June 2016.
The LTIP awards are subject to stretching Dear shareholder, performance targets, with 50% of the award being subject to EPS growth I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Directors and 50% subject to a TSR target.
Over the performance period underlying remuneration report for the year ended 25 December 2016.
In this EPS grew by 69.8% and the Companys share price performance was in the report, we review the Groups performance in the year and explain the upper quartile of the relevant comparator group.
Accordingly the performance pay which resulted for the Executive Directors, we explain the fees we conditions for the award were met in full.
paid to the non-executive Directors and also we set out how we intend In 2016 the Board became aware of certain issues in respect of the to implement our remuneration policy in 2017.
Companys procedures for the payment of certain dividends, share Performance and remuneration for 2016 buybacks and EBT funding in that year and certain prior years.
At a General Meeting held on 10 January 2017, 99.95% of shareholders 2016 was another successful year for Dominos.
The Group achieved gave the Board authority to enter into various deeds of release to put significant profit growth, driven by sustained system sales performance allpotentially affected parties, so far as possible, in the position in which and supported by growth in the number of stores, which saw 81 new they were always intended to be had the relevant distributions been made stores in the UK during the year.
In February 2016 we completed a strategic in accordance with the Companies Act.
The Committee has considered investment in Germany to acquire Joeys Pizza and progress with conversion carefully whether there was a case for recovering incentive awards under of these stores to Dominos franchisees has been very successful.
We also the Companys incentive plans as a result of this breach.
It has concluded announced in June 2016 that we had made a strategic investment in the that this is not necessary as the actual reported earnings figures upon Nordic region which provides a vehicle for further growth outside of our which certain incentive awards outcomes were based were a fair reflection core markets.
Further progress was also made in improving the trading of the actual profit delivered by the Company and the number of shares performance of our Swiss business towards profitability.
that were used to determine EPS was the actual number of shares in Reflecting 2016s strong trading performance, the PBT element of issue in each of the impacted years.
theCEOs annual bonus being 70% of the total was met partially and The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration outcomes for David theRemuneration Committee assessed that he had met the majority and Rachel for the 2016 financial year are fully justified, in light of the ofthepersonal performance objectives being the balancing 30% of his business and individual performance during the year, and are in the bonus so that overall he achieves a payment of 81% of the maximum.
best interests of the Company and shareholders.
This will result in a bonus of 413,091 becoming payable to David Wild.
Following shareholders approval of the revised remuneration policy Appointment of Chief Financial Officer atlast years AGM, Davids annual bonus entitlement was reduced to Rachel Osborne joined as Chief Financial Officer in October 2016 on a 100% of salary previously 150% and his annual bonus will be settled base salary of 325,000 p. a.
On joining the Company, Rachel received wholly in cash.
Rachel Osborne joined as Chief Financial Officer on an award over a total of 45,968 Ordinary shares to compensate for share 10October 2016.
As Rachel held office for only a small proportion of awards that were forfeited on leaving her previous employer.
Full details the year, her bonus entitlement has been based solely on the Groups of the compensatory awards are set out on pages 58 to 59.
Rachels financial performance for 2016 and has been awarded a pro-rata bonus remuneration is in line with the approved policy and is set out in more of 66,111, two-thirds of which will be settled in cash and the remaining detail below.
one-third settled in shares and deferred for two years.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued 2016 remuneration policy and application for 2017 As reported last year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive reviewof Executive remuneration.
The new remuneration policy, which was approved by 92.36% of shareholders at the 2016 AGM, creates acloser and sharper alignment between strategic delivery, shareholder returns and Executive reward over a five-year period.
The remuneration structure keeps fixed pay at relatively low levels but places a higher weighting on long-term performance, subject to achieving stretching performance targets.
For 2017: o the CEOs base salary, which is frozen for the three-year policy period, remains at 510,000 p. a.
There will be no change to the CFOs base salary reflecting her relatively recent appointment: o the CEOs annual bonus opportunity remains at 100% of salary, reflecting the restructuring of his package, and will be 125% ofsalaryfor the CFO: and o the CEO will not receive an award due to the single up-front grant ofperformance shares in 2016 under the 2016 LTIP, which replaces three annual grants over the period 20162018.
The first tranche capable of vesting shall be in 2019. o It is anticipated that the CFO will receive an award under the 2012 LTIP with aface value of 125% of salary in 2017, which shall be subject to stretching EPS and TSR performance targets.
Shareholders views The Committee carried out an extensive consultation exercise with keyinstitutional shareholders and their representative bodies prior tothevote on the new remuneration policy and LTIP at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee continues to take an active interest in shareholders views and looks forward to maintaining an open and transparent dialogue in the future.
We look forward to your support at the 2017Annual General Meeting.
Kevin Higgins Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 March 2017 42 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration policy report INTRODUCTION This part of our Directors remuneration report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company which was approved by This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
as well as information on remuneration paid to Directors in the financial year ended 25 December 2016.
The report complies with Policy overview the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 theRemuneration Committee took into account the following: the Regulations and has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the Code and the UK Listing Authority o the need to set appropriate remuneration policies and packages ListingRules the Listing Rules.
which will attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior management acting in the long-term interests of the Company but The report has been divided into two sections: avoid paying more than is necessary: o Directors remuneration policy report the revised policy was o setting base salary at or below comparable market rates but approved at the 2016 AGM and became effective on that date.
weighting a significant proportion of total remuneration towards The substantive terms of the approved remuneration policy have variable pay with an above-market incentive opportunity linked been included for ease of reference: and tothedelivery of truly exceptional performance: o annual report on remuneration this, together with the Chairmans o having demanding short and long-term performance targets annual statement, will be subject to a single advisory vote at the thatarespecific, measurable and aligned fully with the Companys 2017 AGM.
The report sets out the remuneration paid or payable business objectives to provide strong linkage between remuneration in relation to the year ended 25 December 2016 and how we and performance: intend to implement the policy for the year ahead.
o creating a strong alignment between the interests of senior Executives Those parts of the report which have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP and the delivery of value to shareholders: are clearly identified.
o avoiding creating excessive risks in the achievement of performance targets: and o conducting periodic external comparisons to examine current market trends and practices and equivalent roles in similar companies, taking into account their size, business complexity, international scope and relative performance.
The 2016 remuneration policy was drafted to explain clearly what wouldhappen depending on the outcome of the binding shareholder vote.
The remuneration policy table has been updated to reflect the successful approval of the remuneration policy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary o Reflects the responsibility level and complexity o Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with o Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis o n a ofthe role the exception of the CEO whose salary will be except for David Wild, as explained in the Operation column with frozen at 510,000 until 2019 for the three-year the rate of increase in percentage terms typically linked to those o Reflects skills and experience over time duration of the policy following his participation of the wider workforce o Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income in the 2016 LTIP o If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance on o Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels in a role, a material sustained change in the size and or complexity variable income incompanies with similar characteristics and of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary sector comparators increases beyond those of the wider workforce o Set in the context of pay and employment o If pay is set at a discount to the Companys normal policy on conditions in the Group appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider o Salaries will typically be targeted at or below the workforce based on performance and experience relevant market rate Pension o Provides market-competitive, yet cost-effective o Defined contribution or cash supplement o Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or o n a retirement benefits payment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to 15% of o HMRC-approved salary sacrifice arrangement basic salary o Opportunity for Executives to contribute to their own o Salary sacrifice for employee contribution retirement plan Other benefits o Provide cost-effective insured benefits to support o Benefits are provided through third-party o Family-level private medical insurance cover provided o n a the individual and their family providers and include medical and life insurance o Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary o Access to company car to facilitate effective travel o Company cars or cash equivalents provided o Company car or cash allowance in lieu o The Committee may offer Executive Directors o The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, other employee benefits from time to time on basedonthe cost from third-party providers broadly the same terms as provided to the widerworkforce Annual performance bonus o Incentivise annual delivery of financial and o Up to two-thirds of the annual bonus is paid in o The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but o Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic operational goals linked to the Companys strategy cash and one-third deferred into shares that will DavidWilds bonus opportunity is 100% of salary as he targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture, participated in the 2016 LTIP o The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics with the exception of participants in the 2016 o The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary e. g. underlying PBT with a graduated scale set around the target LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash o A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which o Dividends which accrue on vested shares may are aligned to the key objectives from year to year bepayable o A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold o Not pensionable performance level.
In relation to financial targets, 20% of this part of o Clawback provisions apply the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance target.
In relation to any strategic or individual measures used, it is not o Stretching targets drive operational efficiency always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective.
Where it is, andinfluence the level of returns that should a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the ultimately be delivered to shareholders through threshold performance level as for financial targets share price and dividends o Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will be included in the relevant Directors remuneration report 2012 Long Term Incentive o Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude eligibility o Annual grant of market value options o Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary o Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance Plan 2012 LTIP for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, until 2019 orperformance shares inperformanceshares against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering o Subject to performance conditions measured o The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance sustained profitable growth overthree years sharesat up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director o Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% ofaperformance share award o Aids retention of senior management o Clawback provisions apply o A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides o Dividends which accrue may be paid performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum focus on increasing the Companys share price over onvestedshares performance there is graduated vesting between these points the medium term o The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets isnot less than three financial years 44 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary o Reflects the responsibility level and complexity o Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with o Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis o n a ofthe role the exception of the CEO whose salary will be except for David Wild, as explained in the Operation column with frozen at 510,000 until 2019 for the three-year the rate of increase in percentage terms typically linked to those o Reflects skills and experience over time duration of the policy following his participation of the wider workforce o Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income in the 2016 LTIP o If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance on o Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels in a role, a material sustained change in the size and or complexity variable income incompanies with similar characteristics and of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary sector comparators increases beyond those of the wider workforce o Set in the context of pay and employment o If pay is set at a discount to the Companys normal policy on conditions in the Group appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider o Salaries will typically be targeted at or below the workforce based on performance and experience relevant market rate Pension o Provides market-competitive, yet cost-effective o Defined contribution or cash supplement o Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or o n a retirement benefits payment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to 15% of o HMRC-approved salary sacrifice arrangement basic salary o Opportunity for Executives to contribute to their own o Salary sacrifice for employee contribution retirement plan Other benefits o Provide cost-effective insured benefits to support o Benefits are provided through third-party o Family-level private medical insurance cover provided o n a the individual and their family providers and include medical and life insurance o Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary o Access to company car to facilitate effective travel o Company cars or cash equivalents provided o Company car or cash allowance in lieu o The Committee may offer Executive Directors o The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, other employee benefits from time to time on basedonthe cost from third-party providers broadly the same terms as provided to the widerworkforce Annual performance bonus o Incentivise annual delivery of financial and o Up to two-thirds of the annual bonus is paid in o The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but o Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic operational goals linked to the Companys strategy cash and one-third deferred into shares that will DavidWilds bonus opportunity is 100% of salary as he targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture, participated in the 2016 LTIP o The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics with the exception of participants in the 2016 o The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary e. g. underlying PBT with a graduated scale set around the target LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash o A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which o Dividends which accrue on vested shares may are aligned to the key objectives from year to year bepayable o A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold o Not pensionable performance level.
Where it is, andinfluence the level of returns that should a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the ultimately be delivered to shareholders through threshold performance level as for financial targets share price and dividends o Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will be included in the relevant Directors remuneration report 2012 Long Term Incentive o Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude eligibility o Annual grant of market value options o Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary o Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance Plan 2012 LTIP for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, until 2019 orperformance shares inperformanceshares against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering o Subject to performance conditions measured o The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance sustained profitable growth overthree years sharesat up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director o Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% ofaperformance share award o Aids retention of senior management o Clawback provisions apply o A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides o Dividends which accrue may be paid performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum focus on increasing the Companys share price over onvestedshares performance there is graduated vesting between these points the medium term o The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets isnot less than three financial years Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table continued Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets 1 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering o Single grant of performance shares to cover three o Individual limit of 1,602,000 performance shares covering o One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition 2016 LTIP sustained profitable long-term growth years of normal annual grants of performance thelifeof the policy measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
15% shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018 ofthis element will vest for median performance rising up to full vesting o Aids retention of senior management for an upper quartile ranking or better o Awards vest in three tranches three, four and five o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides years after the start of the performance period o One-third will be set against stretching EPS targets and the final third focus on increasing earnings and the Companys against super-stretch EPS targets, all using 2015 EPS as the base year share price over the medium term o Subject to: i performance conditions measured over three, four and five years: and ii the absolute o For threshold levels of performance, 10% of stretch EPS-linked awards TSR underpin mechanism and 0% of super-stretch EPS-linked awards will vest o Clawback provisions apply o Once the potential vesting outcomes are known, an underpin mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested awards in proportion o Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested to the extent that TSR has increased in absolute terms, up to a 100% shares up to their vesting date and on vested absolute TSR target.
Awards will only be released in full if our absolute shares that are subject to a holding period TSR has increased by 100%.
The underpin will be reviewed every o A holding period applies which prevents the sale sixmonths over the seven-year life of the award of any vested shares before the fifth anniversary of the start of the performance period except to fund tax or similar obligations Share ownership guidelines o To provide alignment between Executives o Executives are expected to retain shares from the o At least 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors, with 200% o n a andshareholders vesting of options and awards on an after-tax for participants in the 2016 LTIP basis to build and maintain a shareholding o To encourage a focus on sustainable equivalent to the guideline multiple of salary long-termperformance within five years of joining 1 Adjusted for the three-for-one sub-division of the Companys shares effective on 27 June 2016.
The original award was over 534,000 Ordinary shares.
Non-executive Director policy table Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Non-executive o Reflects the value of the individuals skills o Chairmans fee set by the Committee.
o The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to Director fees andexperience Non-executive Directors fees set by the Board the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies ofcomparable size and complexity o Recognises expected time commitments o Fees are normally reviewed biennially, andresponsibilities effective1January o The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective o Takes into account periodic external reviews date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time commitment againstcompanies with similar characteristics of the role, increases to fee levels for non-executive Directors in andsector comparators general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity o Set in the context of time commitments o Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary to andresponsibilities do so, to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive Director of an o A base fee is provided to all non-executive appropriate calibre Directors with supplemental fees payable for chairing the sub-Committees and for holding theSenior Independent Director position o Non-executive Directors do not participate inanyannual bonus, share incentive plans,  o Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed forany expenses on a gross of tax basis incurred in the course of carrying out their role which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC or equivalent body 46 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table continued Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets 1 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering o Single grant of performance shares to cover three o Individual limit of 1,602,000 performance shares covering o One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition 2016 LTIP sustained profitable long-term growth years of normal annual grants of performance thelifeof the policy measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
o The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to Director fees andexperience Non-executive Directors fees set by the Board the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies ofcomparable size and complexity o Recognises expected time commitments o Fees are normally reviewed biennially, andresponsibilities effective1January o The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective o Takes into account periodic external reviews date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time commitment againstcompanies with similar characteristics of the role, increases to fee levels for non-executive Directors in andsector comparators general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity o Set in the context of time commitments o Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary to andresponsibilities do so, to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive Director of an o A base fee is provided to all non-executive appropriate calibre Directors with supplemental fees payable for chairing the sub-Committees and for holding theSenior Independent Director position o Non-executive Directors do not participate inanyannual bonus, share incentive plans,  o Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed forany expenses on a gross of tax basis incurred in the course of carrying out their role which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC or equivalent body Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Illustration of remuneration scenarios Remuneration policy report continued The chart below illustrates the total remuneration for the Chief Executive Operation of the annual bonus plan and LTIP policy Officer and Chief Financial Officer based on the current policy under three The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, the 2012 LTIP and different scenarios minimum, target and maximum.
Given that the 2016 the2016 LTIP scheme in accordance with their respective rules and in LTIP is expected to cover three grants, we have applied a value to each accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements where relevant.
tranche to arrive at an annualised value.
Within these rules, the Remuneration Committee is required to retain a 3,500 number of discretions to ensure an effective operation and administration 2,901 3,000 of these plans.
These discretions are consistent with standard market practice and include but are not limited to : 2,500 o who participates in the plans: 2,000 62% 1,500 o when awards are granted and or paid: 1,200 943 12% 652 1,000 34% o the size of an award and or a payment subject to the limits stated 17% 575 9% 26% inthe policy table above : 388 34% 500 31% 21% 100% 62% 100% 59% 32% o how to determine the level of vesting: 0 Below target Target Maximum Below target Target Maximum o how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: CEO David Wild CFO Rachel Osborne Fixed pay Bonus LTIP o how to determine a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes: Assumptions o how to determine any adjustments required in certain circumstances Minimum comprises fixed pay being the value of 2017 base salary, 2016 benefits e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special annualised for a full year for Rachel Osborne and a pension contribution in line with dividends : and the approved policy.
o reviewing the performance conditions range of targets, measures Target for David Wild, minimum plus a bonus payout of 50% of salary plus threshold vesting of one tranche of the 2016 LTIP under the relative TSR and stretch EPS parts and weightings for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
It assumes no vesting under the super-stretch EPS targets.
The absolute If certain events occur, such as a material acquisition or the divestment TSR underpin mechanism assumes 75% vesting is achieved.
For Rachel Osborne, of a Group business, the original performance conditions may no longer be minimum plus a bonus payout of 50% of the maximum 62.5% of salary and threshold appropriate.
Therefore, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion vesting under the LTIP.
to make adjustments to the targets and or set different measures and alter Maximum minimum plus maximum bonus.
For David Wild, it assumes full weightings as they deem necessary to ensure the conditions achieve their vesting of one tranche of the 2016 LTIP and achievement of the absolute TSR underpin.
For Rachel Osborne, it assumes full vesting of an LTIP with a face value original purpose, are appropriate in the revised circumstances and, in of 125% of salary.
any event, are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
This has been modelled at a share price of 356.8p, being that in force on the last Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in day of the 2016 financial year.
No account has been taken of any prospective share the Directors remuneration report and may, where appropriate, be the price increases.
subject of prior consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Choice of performance metrics Share-settled incentive awards and any arrangements agreed prior As detailed in the strategic report on pages 2 to 29, the Group seeks tothe effective date of this policy will remain eligible to vest or pay out toaccelerate sales growth in the UK, build on its leadership in digital based on their original award terms.
This includes any awards granted and mobile ordering, drive further improvements in franchisee profitability under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP or the 2012 LTIP scheme.
and grow its international markets profitably.
For incentive purposes, In addition, all arrangements previously disclosed in prior years this results in underlying profit before tax being used as the primary Directors remuneration reports will remain eligible to vest or become performance metric in the annual bonus plan and a combination of payable on their original terms.
relative TSR and growth in EPS being used as the performance metrics within the 2012 LTIP.
For the 2016 LTIP, these metrics apply andare Balance between fixed and variable pay supplemented with an absolute TSR underpin.
The performance-related elements of remuneration are dependent uponthe achievement of outcomes that are important drivers of Underlying EPS measures the Companys success in delivering sustainable growth for the business and therefore the creation of value long-term profit growth, a key contributor to the Companys valuation, for shareholders.
The remuneration package offered to Executive Directors and is considered by the Committee to be the most appropriate by the Company is therefore more heavily performance related than that measure of long-term financial performance.
It is also used by the operated in comparatively sized leisure companies and companies in Board to determine success in executing our strategy.
the upper halfof the FTSE 250 more generally, particularly at higher Relative TSR helps align managements and shareholders interests, since levels of performance.
the Executives will only be rewarded to the extent that the Company delivers a return to shareholders above the median company of comparable size, with full vesting on this measure requiring top quartile performance.
Absolute TSR helps address the issue of being the best performer in a falling market, by requiring that there has been a positive growth in TSR over the measurement period.
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate risk taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
For financial targets, a sliding scale is applied, with a very modest amount being payable for threshold levels of performance.
48 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 000 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In line with the Investment Associations Guidelines on Responsible Choice of performance metrics continued Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the A number of the Companys non-financial strategic objectives have been incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will incorporated into the annual bonus for Executive Directors and will be not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently applied on an individual basis for a minority of the overall bonus opportunity.
motivating irresponsible behaviour and remuneration design can be These objectives will also be measured on a sliding scale of performance.
flexed to address ESG issues when appropriate.
The Committee has due The Committee will review the continued appropriateness of the annual regard to issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
bonus and, if applicable, 2012 LTIP performance conditions on an The clawback provisions in respect of annual bonuses and long-term annual basis to ensure that they remain aligned to the Companys strategy.
share plans also provide the Committee with a mechanism to recover The Committee will make necessary changes to the weightings of measures monies in certain circumstances, for example, if a misstatement of and or introduce new measures which they believe would provide a closer results is identified.
Share ownership guidelines and the design of the link to the business strategy within the confines of the policy detailed 2016 LTIP help to ensure that the Executive Directors have a strong above.
Shareholder dialogue would take place, as appropriate, should personal focus on long-term sustainable performance, heavily driven there be any material change of emphasis in relation to current practices.
bythe relative and absolute returns delivered to shareholders.
How employees pay is taken into account How shareholders views are taken into account Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group were considered when The Committee considers shareholder feedback received around finalising the current policy for the Executive Directors.
In particular, theAGM and analyses the votes cast on the relevant items of business.
theCommittee is updated on salary increases for the general employee This feedback, plus views received during meetings with institutional population, Company-wide benefit provision, level of annual bonuses shareholders and their representative bodies, is considered as part of and staff participation in long-term incentive schemes, so it is aware the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
The Remuneration ofhow the total remuneration of the Executive Directors compares Committee also consults with its key shareholders whenever appropriate.
withthe average total remuneration of employees generally.
A comprehensive consultation exercise was undertaken during early 2016 The Committee does not formally or directly consult with employees with shareholders views being reflected in the revised policy, which has onExecutive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group been in effect since the 2016 AGM.
The Committee values feedback HRDirector.
The Committee is also informed of the results of employee from its shareholders and seeks to maintain a continued open dialogue.
engagement surveys, which do not contain any specific questions related Investors who wish todiscuss remuneration issues should contact the to Executive Director remuneration, but the most recent of which indicated Company Secretary.
that most employees show high levels of engagement and feel that reward Service contracts and policy on exit is an important attribute of their job.
The Committee reviews the contractual terms for new Executive Directors How the Executive Directors remuneration policy to ensure that these reflect best practice.
relates to the Group Service contracts are normally entered into on a rolling basis, with notice The remuneration policy described above provides an overview periods given by the employing company limited to 12 months or less.
ofthestructure that operates for the most senior Executives in the Should notice be served by either party, the Executive can continue to Group, with a significant element of remuneration dependent on receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice Company and individual performance.
period, during which time the relevant Group company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period A lower aggregate level of incentive payment applies below Executive of garden leave.
An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated Director level, driven by market comparatives, internal relativities and the without notice and without any further payment or compensation, save potential impact of the role.
The vast majority of the Groups employees for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain participate in an annual bonus plan, with the limits and performance events of gross misconduct.
If the Company terminates the employment conditions varying according to job grade.
of an Executive Director in breach of contract, compensation is limited The Committee believes that broad-based employee share ownership to salary due for any unexpired notice period and any amount assessed provides a key element in retention and motivation in the wider workforce.
by the Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits Long-term incentives are provided through the Groups discretionary which would have been received during the unexpired notice period.
share schemes to Executives and managers in all territories in which The policy for any new Executive Director would be based on terms that Group companies operate.
The Company also offers a HMRC-registered are consistent with these provisions but will also include the ability for the savings-related share option scheme for all UK-based employees with Company to make a payment in lieu of notice limited to a maximum value more than six months service, including Executive Directors.
of 12 months base salary, pension and benefits.
Payments in lieu of notice All newly appointed employees, including Executive Directors, are may be made in monthly instalments and would reduce proportionately eligible to join a defined contribution pension plan, whereby they make to the extent that alternative employment income was received i. e. phased acontribution to the nominated plan, with the Company typically payments, subject to mitigation.
contributing double the amount paid by the employee.
David Wild, the Chief Executive Officer has a rolling contract dated How is risk managed in relation to short 30April 2014.
Rachel Osborne, the Chief Financial Officer, has a ?
Both Executives contracts areterminable on six months notice from either party and include The Committee believes that the consideration and management of risk payment in lieu of notice provisions as per the policy detailed above.
is important when formulating and then operating appropriate remuneration structures notably the performance criteria for senior management.
All of Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable.
In the event of a change the members of the Committee are also members of the Audit Committee, of control of the Group, there is no enhancement to contractual terms.
whose Chairman is also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
TheRemuneration Committee has a good understanding of the key risks facing the business and the relevance of these to the remuneration strategy, most particularly when setting targets for performance-related pay.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Service contracts and policy on exit continued In summary, the contractual provisions for the Executive Directors are as follows: Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months or less Maximum termination payment Base salary plus benefits and pension, subject to mitigation for new Directors Remuneration entitlements A pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with vesting foroutstanding share awards in certain circumstances see below In all cases performance targets would apply Change of control As on termination Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Companys LTIP schemes or bonus entitlement under the annual performance bonus will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
With regard to the circumstances under which the Executive Directors might leave service, these are described below with a description of the anticipated payments: Departure on agreed terms e. g. asked to leave due to revised skill Remuneration element Bad leaver e. g. resignation sets required for role Good leaver e. g. ill health, retirement Salary in lieu Salary for proportion of notice Up to a maximum of 100% of salary ofnoticeperiod period served Pension and benefits Provided for proportion of notice Up to one years worth of pension and benefits period served e. g. redundancy Possible payment of pension and insured benefits triggered by the leaver event this would be governed by the terms of the benefits provided Bonus If resigns, reduced pro rata to Reduced pro rata to reflect proportion of bonus year reflect proportion of bonus year elapsed provided performance conditions met employed provided performance conditions met at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
If dismissed for cause, nonepayable Treatment will normallyfall between Long-term Lapse Up to full vesting, based on performance tested good leaver and bad  over the full performance period or to the date leaver treatment, subject 2012 LTIP ofcessation at the discretion of the Committee to the discretion of the Where awards are granted as market value Remuneration Committee options, the award may also be reduced pro rata and the terms of any atthe discretion of the Committee to reflect the termination agreement proportion of the performance period elapsed to thedate of cessation Where awards are granted as performance shares, awards will be subject to a pro rata reduction unless the Committee determines otherwise Long-term Lapse Awards will normally continue to be capable of  vesting subject to performance measured at the 2016 LTIP normal calculation date or until the absolute TSR condition has been satisfied prior to the awards expiry and a pro rata reduction by reference to the proportion of the relevant three, four and five-year performance periods that have expired, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, on an exceptional basis Other payments None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement and redundancy entitlements 50 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-executive Director remuneration The non-executive Directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office.
With the exception ofColin Halpern, who is nominated to the Board pursuant to a contractual agreement, each of the non-executive Directors is appointed for a fixed term of three years, renewable for a further three-year term if agreed and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive Directors: Date most recent Expected date of Appointment date term commenced expiry of current term Stephen Hemsley 1 January 2008 30 March 2016 30 March 2019 as Executive Chairman as non-executive Chairman n a Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling annual Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 20 September 2017 Ebbe Jacobsen 31 January 2014 31 January 2017 31 January 2020 Kevin Higgins 8 September 2014 8 September 2014 8 September 2017 Steve Barber 1 July 2015 1 July 2015 1 July 2018 Recruitment and promotion policy When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Salary levels will be set based on the experience, knowledge and skills of the individual and in the context of market rates for equivalent roles in companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee will also consider Group relativities when setting base salary levels The Committee may set initial base salaries below the perceived market rate with the aim to make multi-year staged increases to achieve the desired market position over time.
Where necessary these increases may be above those ofthewider workforce, but will be subject to continued development in the role Benefits Benefits will be as provided to current Executive Directors The Committee will consider meeting the cost of certain reasonable relocation expenses and legal fees as necessary Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at a level no more as a percentage of salary than current Executive Directors Annual bonus The annual bonus would be operated in line with that set out in the policy table for current Executive Directors For a new joiner, the bonus would be pro rated for the period of service Due to the timing or nature of the appointment, the Committee may determine it necessary to set different modified performance conditions for the first year of appointment Long-term incentives Participation will be in accordance with the information set out in the policy table Awards may be made shortly after an appointment, subject to prohibited periods Any new appointment would be eligible to participate in the all-employee share options arrangements on the same terms as all other employees For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant Additional incentives The Committee will assess whether it is necessary to buy out remuneration which would be forfeited from a previous employer onappointment The Committee will, where possible, seek to offer a direct replacement award taking into account the structure, quantum, time horizons and relevant performance conditions which would impact on the expected value of the remuneration to be forfeited The Committee will use the existing remuneration plans where possible, although it may be necessary to grant outside ofthese schemes using exemptions permitted under the Listing Rules External appointments The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors in other companies and that these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
Subject to pre-agreed conditions, and with prior approval of the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a non-executive director in another listed company.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such service.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Role and membership The Committee is responsible for the Chairmans and the Executive Directors remuneration and also oversees the remuneration packages of other senior Executives.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of relevant Senior Executives and, when appropriate, are invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and can be found on the Groups website, investors.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets up to four times in each year and additionally as circumstances dictate.
During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance at the meetings were: Name Member since Attendance Kevin Higgins Chairman 22 September 2014 5 Helen Keays 22 September 2014 5 Steve Barber 16 September 2015 5 External advisers Throughout the year, New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of AON plc, was retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide it with relevantconsultancy services.
NBS was selected on an arms length basis and appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
NBS is a signatory to theRemuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and did not provide any other services to the Company except in relation to senior management remuneration matters.
The total fees for NBS services in the year were 141,446 excluding VAT.
The Remuneration Committee reviews its relationship with external advisers on a regular basis and, noting that NBS does not provide any other services to the Group, continues to believe that there are no conflicts of interest.
What has the Remuneration Committee done during the year?
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year to consider and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items including the following: A Management of individual remuneration o reviewed and approved Executive Directors and senior management base salaries and benefits: o reviewed year end business performance and performance-linked rewards in order to determine annual bonus payouts and vesting : o approved long-term incentive awards made in 2016 under the 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP: and o reviewed the non-executive Chairman and non-executive Directors fees.
B Governance of the remuneration programme o consulted with investors and proxy agencies, taking on Board feedback and concluding the design of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior management, which was approved at the 2016 AGM: o reviewed and approved the Directors remuneration report including the remuneration policy: o monitored guidance and directional themes from institutional shareholder bodies in relation to new reporting requirements: o reviewed 2016 AGM results and feedback from institutional shareholders: and o confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are not anticipated to inadvertently encourage any undue risk taking.
52 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 Straight-line vesting in between the performance pointsabove Base salary The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately The salary for the Chief Executive Officer will be frozen at 510,000 demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market until 2019.
The Chief Financial Officers salary shall remain at 325,000, expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning.
her salary at the date of appointment, until 2019.
50%: relative TSR performance Annual performance bonus APB The remaining half of the award will vest in accordance with the following As the CEO participates in the 2016 LTIP, his maximum bonus opportunity vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance against the for 2017 will be 100% of salary payable in cash and the CFOs maximum constituents of the FTSE 250 index, excluding investment trusts, over bonus will be 125% of salary.
The APB provides a focus on the delivery of the stretching targets that Vesting are set by the Committee following consideration of the Companys annual Ranking of the Companys TSR % of EPS part of award operating plan by the Board each year and there is a threshold level of Below median 0% performance below which no award is paid.
Median 15% The performance conditions for the APB for the 2017 financial year will Upper quartile or higher 100% be based both on achieving and exceeding the Groups underlying PBT growth targets set by the Board 70% of bonus and on achieving individual Straight-line vesting in between the performance business objectives 30% of bonus which support the business plan.
pointsabove The underlying PBT measure is based on internally set targets and pays In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as the metrics, the Committee has out 20% at threshold 95% of target rising on a pro rata basis to 50% sought to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key payout at target with full payment only due if we achieve 110% of target.
measure of success in delivering profitable growth underlying EPS and aligning the CFO and senior management with shareholders through a For 2017, strategic objectives will be set by the Committee linked to the TSR measure.
None of the strategic element of the bonus may be earned unless a threshold level of Group underlying PBT has Benefits and supplements been achieved.
Where appropriate, individual objectives are also set Benefits in kind provided for Executive Directors are principally company onasliding scale based around a target.
car provision or an allowance in lieu of company car, mobile telephone, The Committee considers that the performance targets in relation to life insurance cover and private health cover for Executive Directors and theAPB are commercially sensitive and therefore will not be disclosed their family.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into ona prospective basis, but intends that the targets and outcomes are account when determining base salary for performance-related remuneration.
disclosed in the Directors remuneration report once they are no longer considered sensitive, as has been its practice in recent years.
Pension The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for Executive Directors The CEOs bonus will be payable in cash as he participates in the 2016 to ensure that the benefits provided are consistent with those provided by LTIP.
For the CFO, two-thirds ofany bonus payments will be made in other similar companies and take account of changes in relevant legislation.
cash, with the remaining third deferred into Company shares, which will vest after two years during which time they remain subject to forfeiture.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme.
Dividend equivalents may bepayable on vested shares.
Instead, the Company contributes to the Executive Directors personalpensions or provides a cash supplement at a rate Long-term incentives ofupto15%of base salary.
The CEOs participation in the 2016 LTIP means that he is not eligible The Committee approves the pension arrangements and contributions made foran LTIP grant in 2017 or 2018. by the Group on behalf of the Executive Directors.
The Company does not It is intended that the CFO will receive an award of performance shares contribute to any pension arrangements for the non-executive Directors.
under the 2012 LTIP plan with a face value of 125% of salary.
Awards will vest after three years subject to two independent performance metrics.
New appointments The remuneration arrangements for any new appointments to the 50%: earnings per share growth Boardwill be consistent with the Companys approved remuneration Vesting policy and policy table.
Three-year underlying EPS growth over 2016 base year % of EPS part of award Below 30% 0% 30% 10% 40% 45% 50% 80% 60% 100% Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 continued Non-executive Directors fees Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed biennially and the last review was carried out in February 2016: therefore, the fees below remain unchanged from last years remuneration report.
The fee structure for the Chairman and other non-executive Directors for 2016 and 2017 is as follows: o Chairman 225,000: o Non-executive Director base fee 47,000: o Audit Committee Chairman fee 10,000: o Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 10,000: o Nomination Committee Chairman fee 5,000: and o Senior Independent Director fee 7,000.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM At the AGM held on 20 April 2016 there were three items of remuneration-related business: the Directors remuneration report, the Directors remuneration policy and the adoption of the 2016 LTIP.
The voting results were as follows: Annual report on remuneration Directors remuneration policy Adoption of 2016 LTIP Total number Total number Total number of votes % of votes cast of votes % of votes cast of votes % of votes cast For 125,567,881 98.52% 117,297,203 92.36% 114,560,818 91.18% Against 1,885,504 1.48% 9,704,133 7.64% 11,082,870 8.82% Total votes cast for and against 127,453,385 100% 127,001,336 100% 125,643,688 100% Votes withheld 187,610 639,659 1,997,307 Total votes cast including withheld votes 127,640,995 127,640,995 127,640,995 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
Single total remuneration figure for each Director audited 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Fixed pay Performance-related pay Total 1 Benefits and LTIP remuneration 9 000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting Subtotal in 2016 Executives David Wild 510 14 51 575 413 3,489 3,902 4,477 2 Rachel Osborne 69 3 10 82 66 66 148 Former Executives 3 Paul Doughty 5 1 6 6 Non-executives Stephen Hemsley 230 2 232 232 4 Colin Halpern 181 31 212 212 Helen Keays 52 52 52 Ebbe Jacobsen 47 47 47 Kevin Higgins 57 57 57 6 Steve Barber 57 57 57 Total 1,208 50 62 1,320 479 3,489 3,968 5,288 54 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 continued Single total remuneration figure for each Director audited continued 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 Fixed pay Performance-related pay Total 1 Benefits and LTIP remuneration 000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting Subtotal in 2015 Executives David Wild 510 14 50 574 669 669 1,243 3 Paul Doughty 181 8 27 216 216 Former Executives 5 Sean Wilkins 24 1 2 27 27 Non-executives Stephen Hemsley 195 2 197 197 4 Colin Halpern 265 31 296 296 Helen Keays 41 41 41 Ebbe Jacobsen 41 41 41 Kevin Higgins 48 48 48 6 Steve Barber 21 21 21 7 Michael Shallow 33 33 33 Total 1,359 56 79 1,494 669 669 2,163 Prior year 8 reportedtotal 1,450 57 58 1,565 293 293 1,858 Notes: 1 The value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car allowance and, if applicable, health cover.
2 Rachel Osborne took up the position of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 10 October 2016 on an annual salary of 325,000 and is eligible to receive benefits and a pension and participate in the incentive plans in line with the prevailing remuneration policy.
3 Paul Doughty tendered his resignation on 19 November 2015 and stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer shortly after the financial year end, on31December 2015.
He was not eligible for a bonus and did not receive any awards under the LTIP scheme.
4 Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company and for the 2016 financial year a management fee of 181,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in the year in respect of his services.
During the year the terms of the management agreement were renegotiated and the management fee reduced to 140,000 per annum with effect from 25 April 2016.
A further benefit of 31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was also paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year.
The same overall structure of payment of fees operated in 2015.
5 Sean Wilkins stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 20 January 2015.
6 Steve Barber was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015.
7 Michael Shallow retired from the Board on 31 July 2015.
8 As required by the regulations, this row sets out the total reported in the remuneration report for the prior financial year.
9 David Wild received awards under the 2012 LTIP on 30 May 2014.
The performance conditions applying to these awards were met in full.
In accordance with the legislation, these awards have been valued using the three month average share price to 25 December 2016 346.77 pence.
In addition a dividend equivalent award equal to 203,397 has been included in the value of the vested award.
Defined contribution pensions audited Executive Directors receive up to 15% of salary from the Company, either as contributions to a personal pension fund or in cash.
In the year ended 25 December 2016 this totalled 51,000 for David Wild and 10,312 for Rachel Osborne.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of variable pay earned in the year Annual bonus plan The incentive for the financial year ended 25 December 2016 was in the form of a bonus based on performance against a combination of financial targets, specifically a significant increase in the Groups underlying PBT, and non-financial targets, incentivising a number of the Companys strategic priorities.
The CEO had a bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary in respect of the 2016 financial year.
Of this opportunity, 70% was linked to Group underlying PBT and operated on a banded basis, commencing at 20% for threshold levels of profit performance, 50% of bonus at target, with the full 100% only payable at stretch performance levels, being materially in excess of budget.
The CFOs bonus for the period from 10 October 2016 to 25 December 2016 77 days was based on Group underlying PBT.
2016 was a successful year for the Group, with the underlying PBT of 85.67m.
1 Targets set for year Performance hurdle underlying PBT Actual performance achieved Resulting bonus out-turn Resulting bonus payable Growth in underlying profit before tax of Threshold: 77.19m Actual underlying PBT 77.1% of maximum CEO: 275,391 between 95% of target 20% payout and 110% Target: 81.26m was 85.67m CFO: 66,111 or more full payout.
Graduated scale operates Maximum: 89.38m between performance points 1.
The original targets were adjusted to take account of the additional IFRS 2 charges, arising from the 2016 LTIP approved by shareholders on 20 April 2016, which had not been calculated when the performance targets were set.
The non-financial targets set for the CEO, which accounted for 30% of his bonus opportunity, related to a number of key strategic objectives for 2016 which included: o A successful transition of the German business to a joint venture.
o Accelerated shop openings in London.
o Successful implementation of the ERP system.
The Remuneration Committees assessment of performance against the above objectives concluded that there was strong progress with these strategically linked personal objectives and 27% points of the 30% forming this part of the bonus should be paid, equating to 137,100.
Payment of the bonus is subject to reaching a threshold level of profitability, and this underpin was met.
Accordingly, David Wild is entitled to receive a bonus in respect of 2016 performance amounting to 413,091, equating to 81% of the maximum opportunity and c. 81% of salary.
The bonus is payable in cash.
Rachel Osbornes bonus opportunity was pro-rated to reflect the period in employment.
Based on performance set out above, she is entitled to receive a bonus in respect of 2016 performance amounting to 66,111, equating to 77.1% of the maximum opportunity and c. 20.34% of salary.
In line with the policy, two-thirds of the bonus will be payable in cash and one-third will be deferred into shares that vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture.
LTIPs An LTIP award of nil-cost options granted to David Wild on 30 May 2014 will vest on 30 May 2017, based on performance over the three-year period ending on 25 December 2016.
The award will vest in full according to the performance below.
The initial award to the Chief Executive Officer of 350% of salary was agreed as part of the terms of his appointment on a permanent basis.
50%: EPS performance Half of future awards vest subject to growth in the Companys adjusted EPS on the following basis: Actual EPS performance % of award Metric performance condition Maximum vesting Three-year adjusted earnings per share EPS 69.8% growth 30% growth 40% growth 50% growth 60% growth 100% 10% vesting 45% vesting 80% vesting 100% vesting Straight-line vesting in between the performance points.
50%: TSR performance The remaining half of awards vest based on the following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance measures against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over three financial years: Actual % of award Metric performance Threshold Maximum vesting Ranking of the Companys TSR Upper quartile Median Upper quartile 100% 15% vesting 100% vesting Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
For reporting purposes David Wilds 2014 LTIP award was valued using the three month average share price to 25 December 2016 346.77 pence plus a dividend equivalent award of 203,397.
56 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Share awards granted during the year audited Deferred Share Bonus Plan The bonuses in respect of 2015 performance were settled two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares, the receipt of the latter being deferred for two years.
The award granted in 2016 represents one-third of the gross bonus due to David Wild for the financial year ended 27 December 2015.
DSBP Basis of award Face value Number of shares Vesting date 1 David Wild 33.33% of ABP value 223,121 67,239 11 03 2018 1 Adjusted for the three for one sub-division of the Companys shares effective on 27 June 2016.
The original award was in respect of 22,413 Ordinary shares.
This award, which is structured as a nil-cost option, vests subject to continuous employment and no other performance criteria.
Dividend equivalents will become payable on exercise.
LTIP awards Following the approval of the 2016 LTIP and the 2016 remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM, an award was granted to David Wild on 22 April 2016.
This grant covers three years of normal annual grants of performance shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and was over 1,602,000 nil-cost options following an adjustment for the three for one sub-division of the Companys shares effective on 27 June 2016.
Number of awards Face value of Vesting % at Performance Performance Executive Date of grant Type of award Award tranche granted award threshold period conditions David Wild 22 April 2016 Conditional Tranche 1 534,000 1,666,080 10%15% Three financial 66.6%: EPS growth award of years from 33.3%: RTSR, with shares 2015 to 2018 an absolute TSR underpin Tranche 2 534,000 1,666,080 10%15% Four financial 66.6%: EPS growth years from 33.3%: RTSR, with 2015 to 2019 an absolute TSR underpin Tranche 3 534,000 1,666,080 10%15% Five financial 66.6%: EPS growth years from 33.3%: RTSR, with 2015 to 2020 an absolute TSR underpin Based on an adjusted share price of 312p the original share price was 936p, being the closing share price at the date of grant.
Dividend equivalents will be payable on the number of awards that ultimately vest.
Performance conditions One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
15% of this element will continue to vest for median performance rising up to full vesting for an upper quartile ranking or better, measured over three, four andfive years as appropriate.
The second one-third of each tranche will vest subject to stretching EPS targets and the final third will vest subject toexacting super-stretch EPS targets.
Both EPS components will use actual 2015 EPS as the base year from which growth is measured.
Targets for each element across the various tranches are as follows: Vesting of each tranche Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 straight line performance to performance to performance to Weighting between each point end of FY18 end of FY19 end of FY20 One-third relative TSR targets 0% Below median Below median Below median 15% Median Median Median 100% Upper quartile Upper quartile Upper quartile One-third stretch targets: 0% 30% 40% 50% Cumulative growth in EPS 10% 30% 40% 50% 45% 40% 50% 60% 80% 50% 60% 75% 100% 60% 75% 90% One-third super-stretch targets: 0% 60% 75% 90% Cumulative growth in EPS 50% 70% 85% 105% 100% 80% 100% 120% At the end of the relevant performance periods, the provisional vesting outcome will be determined by reference to TSR and EPS performance.
Thiswill determine the maximum percentage of awards capable of vesting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Share awards granted during the year audited continued Absolute TSR underpin Once the potential vesting outcomes are known for each tranche, an underpin mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested awards if TSR has increased in absolute terms with awards released on a proportionate basis.
For example, if the Companys TSR at the calculation date for a particular tranche is 75%, then only three-quarters of the awards capable of vesting under that tranche having applied the EPS and relative TSR tests will be released.
Awards will only be released in full if our absolute TSR has increased by 100%.
Progression towards the TSR doubling target will be assessed upon the completion of the relevant performance period and every six months thereafter until the expiry of the award shortly after its seventh anniversary of grant, in 2023.
This additional absolute TSR requirement provides further alignment between reward outcomes and shareholder returns.
The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning.
Furthermore, given the reliance placed on long-term incentives in our overall remuneration policy, the proposed targets are considered to provide an appropriate range of stretching but achievable targets that will both retain and motivate the Executive team to deliver the Boards strategy.
As for the awards made under the 2012 LTIP, EPS and TSR provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in delivering profitable growth underlying EPS and further aligning the Executives with shareholders through the introduction of a relative TSR condition.
The absolute TSR underpin applying to the 2016 LTIP provides a requirement for delivering absolute shareholder returns through distributions and share price growth.
Clawback and malus A recovery provision will apply to all awards made under the LTIP which will enable the Committee to recover any value which was overpaid in the event of a misstatement of the Companys accounts or other relevant measure of performance, either through withholding future incentive pay or through asking for the net of tax excess value received to be repaid.
Awards granted to Rachel Osborne In line with the approved Remuneration Policy the Company agreed to compensate Rachel Osborne for share-based incentives awarded at her previous employer and forfeited as a consequence of joining Dominos Pizza.
The compensation comprised the grant, on 13 October 2016, of an award over 114,921 shares in the Company under and subject to the terms of a share award agreement entered into upon reliance of FCA Listing Rule 9.4.
The award comprised two tranches of conditional share awards and was made on a like-for-like basis at a level consistent with fair value at the time of recruitment and matches the original vesting timeframe.
Further details are provided in the table below.
Number of shares Tranches relevant Tranche comprised within tranche vesting date Details One 37,482 1 November 2017 This tranche replaces forfeited share awards which did not have any performance criteria and were due to vest on 1 November 2017.
The value of the replacement award is equal to the face value of the forfeited awards at the time of replacement.
Two 8,486 1 June 2018 2 3rd of the forfeited awards were subject performance and service and 1 3rd subject to service only, due to vest in March 2018.
Replacement awards were granted of equivalent face value with all awards subject to the performance criteria that applied to the August 2015 Dominos Pizza LTIP awards and continued service.
On exercise the tranches will be satisfied using existing shares only.
The replacement awards are no more valuable and do not vest any earlier than the remuneration forfeited.
58 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Awards held in the year audited Details of options and conditional awards over shares held by Directors who served during the year are as follows: Date from which Outstanding Granted Outstanding Exercise exercisable shares at awarded in Exercised Lapsed shares at 25 price capable 1 Plan 27 December 2015 2016 number vested number number December 2016 pence Date of grant of vesting David Wild 2012 LTIP 541,515 541,515 n a 30 05 14 30 05 17 2012 LTIP additional award 406,137 406,137 n a 30 05 14 30 05 17 Sharesave 8,448 8,448 213 29 04 15 01 06 18 DSBP 40,098 40,098 n a 21 12 15 27 02 17 2012 LTIP 227,679 227,679 n a 21 12 15 21 12 18 1 DSBP 67,239 67,239 n a 11 03 16 11 03 18 2016 LTIP 1 alltranches 1,602,000 1,602,000 n a 22 04 16 22 04 23 Rachel Osborne 2012 LTIP 68,953 68,953 n a 13 10 16 13 10 19 2012 LTIP additional award 8,486 8,486 n a 13 10 16 01 06 18 2012 LTIP additional award 37,482 37,482 n a 13 10 16 01 11 17 1 Outstanding share awards as at 27 December 2015, and shares awards made during the year prior to 27 June 2016, have been adjusted for the three for one sub-division oftheCompanys shares effective on 27 June 2016.
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued employment.
DSBP and Sharesave awards vest subject to continued employment only.
Dilution limits The Company operates within best practice guidelines published by the Investment Association.
These broadly provide that where new-issue shares are used to satisfy awards made under employee share schemes, the aggregate number of shares placed under award disregarding any awards which have lapsed across all such schemes operated by the Company should not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any ten-year rolling period.
Termination payments audited Paul Doughty resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December 2015.
He received payment of his salary and benefits up to that date.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Directors shareholdings audited To reinforce the linkage between Senior Executives and shareholders, the Company has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to Executive Directors under its long-term incentive arrangements.
The Executive Directors are required to retain sufficient shares from the vesting of awards to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of base salary for Rachel Osborne and 200% of base salary for David Wild.
It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a maximum of five years.
The Committee has discretion to waive the shareholding requirement in exceptional circumstances.
Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when determining the grant of future awards.
The Committee has decided that awards made under the DSBP shall count assuming the sale of sufficient shares to fund the employees tax andNIobligations towards this target.
Conditional shares Share options Legally owned Legally owned subject to not subject to shares at shares at performance performance Market value 25 December 2016 27 December conditions conditions of shareholding 1 [2] or earlier date of cessation 2015 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP DSBP Sharesave as a % of salary Executive Directors David Wild 13,650 13,650 2,777,331 115,785 49% Rachel Osborne n a 77,439 37,482 nil Non-executive Directors 3 Stephen Hemsley 1,800,000 1,800,000 n a 4 Colin Halpern 1,673,700 1,673,700 n a Helen Keays n a Ebbe Jacobsen n a Kevin Higgins n a Steve Barber n a Former Directors 5 Paul Doughty Notes: 1 Outstanding share interests as at 27 December 2015 have been adjusted for the three for one sub-division of the Companys shares effective on 27 June 2016.
2 Based on a share price of 356.8p prevailing at the end of the financial year and the number of shares in which the Director has a beneficial interest and calculated onthe salary paid inthe year.
3 1,800,000 Ordinary shares 2015: 1,800,000 are held by The Stephen Hemsley No.
5 Trust, a discretionary trust of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are .
HS Real LLC is owned by a discretionary trust, the beneficiaries of which are the adult children ofColin and Gail Halpern.
5 Paul Doughty had resigned as an employee during the financial year and resigned as a Director on 31 December 2015.
CEO remuneration Total remuneration Annual bonus LTIP vesting Year ended Chief Executive Officer 000 % of max % of max 25 December 2016 David Wild 4,477 81% 100% 27 December 2015 David Wild 1,243 87.5% 28 December 2014 David Wild 864 58.6% 29 December 2013 Lance Batchelor 532 0% 30 December 2012 Lance Batchelor 852 50% 25 December 2011 Lance Batchelor 256 60% 25 December 2011 Chris Moore 630 60% 100% 26 December 2010 Chris Moore 809 100% 100% Lance Batchelor resigned as CEO on 16 March 2014.
David Wild assumed the position of Interim CEO on 31 January 2014 and his appointment as the Groups CEO was formally confirmed on 30 April 2014.
For comparative purposes the total remuneration shown for the year ended 28 December 2014 includes remuneration received in both roles.
The first LTIP awards granted to the current CEO that become capable of vesting based on performance ending in FY16 were in 2014 and these have been included in the above table.
60 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Total shareholder return The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance over the eight financial years to 25 December 2016, plotted against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
TSR reflects movements in the share price, adjusted for capital events and assuming all dividends are reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts has been selected for this comparison because i this is the index in which the Companys shares have been quoted since admission to the Official List and ii it forms the comparator group for the TSR performance condition used in the Groups 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP.
The graph shows the value, at 25 December 2016, of 100 invested in the Company on 28 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at the relevant financial year ends.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 December December December December December December December December December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc FTSE 250 excl.
investment trusts Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 2016 % Chief Executive Officer Salary 0% Benefits 0% Bonus 38.3% Average employee on a per capita basis Salary 14.8% Benefits 22.5% Bonus 8.1% The table above shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year, and compares this to the equivalent year-on-year changes averaged across all Group employees and expressed on a per capita basis.
Pay for Group employees includes material proportions paid in euros and swiss francs, and the translation into pounds for the purposes of this year-on-year comparison includes exchange effects.
During the year the Group discontinued operations in Germany which reduced the number of people employed in our corporate stores.
This change increased the proportion of employees in our Group franchising operations, which generally receive higher salaries and benefits.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 2016 restated where necessary % change Staff costs m 41.4 39.3 5.3% of which Directors pay m 1.8 2.2 18.2% Dividends and share buybacks m 69.3 31.0 123.5% Underlying PBT m 85.7 73.2 17.1% Underlying PBT was chosen as a comparator as it reflects the profit generated by the Groups continuing operations, virtually the whole of which leads to cash generation.
This therefore creates the opportunity for the Board to reinvest in the Groups business, or make distributions to shareholders, or both.
It is the same comparator as used in prior years remuneration reports.
On behalf of the Board Kevin Higgins Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 March 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 61 Value rebased
