CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The management team made significant advances on strategy and continued, along with the staff as a whole, to deliver a highly effective operational performance across all business areas in the Group.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Chairman recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and Tony Thorne framework for the executive directors and members of the Committee members Executive Committee: determine, within that framework, the individual remuneration Tim Cobbold, Philip Cox, David Lindsell packages for the executive directors and members of the Attending by invitation ExecutiveCommittee: approve the design of annual and long-term incentive Group Chief Executive, Head of Corporate HR, external arrangements for executive directors and members of the remuneration advisers Executive Committee, including agreeing the annual targets and Number of meetings held in 2016 payments under such arrangements: determine and agree the general terms and conditions of service 5 and the specific terms for any individual within the Committees remit, either on recruitment or on termination: determine the policy for, and scope of, executive pension arrangements: and oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group and review remuneration trends across theGroup.
Terms of reference The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
com Attendance in 2016 This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance Maximum Number of % of with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Date possible meetings meetings appointed a member meetings attended attended Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended theRegulations and the provisions of the Code.
Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 5 5 100% Philip Cox 22 April 2015 5 5 100% 1 Melanie Gee 1 January 2013 2 2 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 5 5 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100% Note: 1 Melanie Gee resigned as a director and Committee member on 20 April 2016.
82 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The Committee viewed the formulaic vesting outcome as a reasonable Annual statement to shareholders reflection of performance over the three-year period, acknowledging that the share price has been affected by external events during the This report reviews the key matters considered by the Remuneration last three years, but that significant progress has been made against Committee in the past year and the future matters we expect to consider.
strategic and financial targets set out in the Business Plan.
During the year, the Committee, in addition to its normal responsibilities, conducted a thorough review of the Groups remuneration policy.
No discretion was exercised in determining the remuneration payouts.
The management team performed strongly in 2016 and this is reflected Base salaries in the years pay outcomes.
Commodity markets remained challenging Base salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 April 2016.
Dorothy and there was a delay in the approval of the important CfD, by the Thompson, Will Gardiner and Andy Koss did not receive any salary European Commission.
The mitigating actions taken by management, increase, while the average increase for the wider workforce was 2.7%.
combined with good implementation, meant that the Company had a strong performance and outcome, compared to plan.
In addition Review of remuneration policy to high operational performance, there was a good advance on the While the Committee has been pleased with shareholders support over strategic front.
The announced strategic moves, coupled with the the life of the current policy, we need to ensure that our remuneration improved outlook for earnings, gave a healthy boost to the share price.
arrangements remain fit for the future and align with good practice.
To maintain remuneration arrangements that robustly measure and reward Annual assessment of performance business and shareholder outcomes, we fully reviewed the remuneration Performance areas of particular note in the year included the excellent policy applying to directors in 2016. safety result.
At Drax Power, income lost through delays to the state aid In summary, the main changes proposed for 2017 onwards are as follows: approval of the CfD was more than offset by securing high ancillary service revenues and good use of coal unit flexibility.
The CfD was finally approved, in decoupling the annual bonus and the BMP, with the introduction of December 2016, at the contract strike price of 100 MWh.
At Drax Biomass a new Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Share Plan DSP, although availability was below target, quality was above target.
Havens along with a reduction in the maximum individual limit which can be results were pleasing with continued growth and at improved margins.
granted from 225% to 175% of an executives salary: adjusting the vesting schedules to give a better balance between With Drax now predominantly biomass fuelled, the strategy the performance and reward, while introducing a two-year holding Group launched in 2012 has completed.
Management had been period post the three-year vesting of PSP shares: working with the Board for some time on a new strategy.
This increasing the executive shareholding guideline to 200% of salary: and was launched publicly in December and is described earlier in the changing the vesting arrangements for deferred bonus awards on Annual report.
The acquisitions of Opus and four OCGT projects, cessation of employment, by removing any pro-rating for time, but plus the advice that the Group was actively looking at securing retaining the normal vesting date, rather than paying out awards further US pellet production, were all initiatives consistent with immediately on leaving.
the new strategy and were well received by the market.
The Committee believes that the proposals strengthen the alignment There is a detailed review of performance against our balanced scorecard of executive remuneration with delivery of the business strategy and measures on page 98.
Components within the scorecard can be scored shareholder value.
In particular, we have: between 0 and 2.0.
A score of 1 represents an on-target performance.
simplified the arrangements by introducing a market-standard For2016 the Board assessed the overall performance at 1.3. performance share plan: reduced maximum executive remuneration in line with investor The score is applied both to the annual bonus and the Bonus Matching sentiment: Plan BMP.
For the purposes of the annual bonus the overall score in increased the alignment with long-term shareholder value: and any year is capped at 1.5.
There is no cap on the annual score when moved into line with current corporate governance best practice.
applied to the BMP scorecard, but there is a cap of 1.5 on the average for the three years.
Further details of the proposed changes are provided in the policy section of this report on page 86.
Based on performance, a corporate score of 1.3 out of 2 and personal score of 1.35 out of 1.5 was agreed by the Committee, resulting in Summary annual bonuses of approximately 88% of maximum.
The Committee I, and the other members of the Committee, are satisfied that the believes that this bonus outcome fairly reflects what has been a strong 2016 remuneration outcomes fairly reflect corporate and personal performance, in terms of what management has achieved against the performance.
We are confident that our new policy provides the right Business Plan and the strategy, the way in which they have led the incentive to management, aligns well with shareholder interests and employee base and the shareholder value created during the year.
brings us closely in line with best practice.
Long-term assessment of performance I was very pleased with the level of support received from investors BMP awards made in 2014 were tested at the end of2016 by reference to during consultations over the new remuneration policy.
We will continue relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 50% and on the to monitor changes in executive remuneration and listen to the regular three-year average of the corporate scorecard 50%.
The Companys TSR feedback from shareholders, to ensure that our remuneration policy over the period was below the median of the comparator group, and the remains in line with good practice.
Overall, we will continue to make Committee therefore confirmed thatnone of the TSR element of the sure that our executives pay reflects performance achieved.
The average corporate scorecard outcome over the same period was 1.09 out of 1.5, and therefore 15.43% of the executive directors 2014 BMP awards willvest.
83 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED At a glance The following is an overview of our remuneration framework applying from 2017 onwards, under the new directors remuneration policy to be put to shareholders at the Companys AGM in April 2017.
Remuneration component and link to strategy Key features Base salary, benefits and pension Market competitive elements to attract the right calibre of executives including health Payable to attract, reward and retain the right calibre cover, car and defined contribution retirement benefits.
of executive to deliver the leadership and management needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
Annual bonus Maximum annual bonus potential is 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and The award of annual bonus is directly linked to personal 140% for other executive directors.
performance and to achieving the annual Business Performance conditions include a corporate scorecard and personal score and payout Plantargets.
is determined based on a multiplicative formula.
Deferral: 65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash and 35% is deferred in shares, which vest after three years subject to continued employment or good leaver termination provisions.
Performance Share Plan replaces Bonus Matching Plan Normal annual awards are 175% of salary.
The PSP links long-term share-based incentives to TSR Vesting occurs after three years, based on TSR relative to a FTSE 350 comparator and the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
group 50% and the average corporate scorecard over the period 50%.
Awards are subject to a two year holding period.
Shareholding guidelines Executives are expected to retain shares to the value of 200% of base salary.
The Groups share ownership guidelines align the interests of executives with shareholders.
Incentive outcomes for 2016 Annual bonus Area Weighting Score Outcome Safety 5% 1.53 Finance 40% 1.61 Regulation 20% 0.90 General 5% 1.30 Business units 30% 1.17 Overall corporate score CS maximum 2 1.30 Executive director personal score PS maximum 1.5 1.35 Bonus outcome as % of maximum CS x PS x 50% 8.8 Range of bonus outcomes as % of salary 123132% See page 98 for further details BMP Area Weighting Score Outcome 2014 corporate score 1.22 2015 corporate score 0.76 2016 corporate score 1.30 Average corporate score maximum 1.5 50% 1.09 Relative TSR performance 50% 0% BMP outcome as a % of maximum 15.43% See page 91 for further details 84 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Single total figure remuneration table for 2016 Remuneration element 000 Annual Other 2016 2015 1 2 Executive director Role Base salary Pension bonus BMP benefits Total Total Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive, Drax Group 574 115 756 60 76 1,581 1,248 3 Will Gardiner Chief Financial Officer 390 78 479 24 971 96 4 Andy Koss Chief Executive, Drax Power 310 62 381 16 21 790 n a Notes: 1 Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service.
2 BMP is the value of the BMP Matching Awards vesting in March 2017, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares.
The value is calculated based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2016.
3 Will Gardiner was appointed as a director on 16 November 2015.
4 Andy Koss was appointed as a director on 1 January 2016.
85 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration policy This remuneration policy, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, will be effective from immediately after the AGM on 13 April 2017 and will be binding upon the Group until the close of the 2020 AGM.
There are no planned changes to the policy over the three-year period to which itrelates.
The core principles of the remuneration policy are set out below: making sure that executive remuneration is linked strongly to performance and the achievement of strategic objectives: ensuring transparency in executive pay reporting through simplification in design and appropriate reporting: securing and retaining top talent: and maintaining flexibility, to recognise the uncertain business environment, whilst ensuring that remuneration outcomes are aligned to shareholder interests.
Key components of remuneration The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to support the delivery of strong business performance and the creation ofshareholder value.
We set out in the table below the policy relating to the key components of the remuneration policy for executive directors, and in the notes following the table we comment on differences between this policy and that for the remuneration of employees generally.
Base Salary Base salary helps to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive to deliver the leadership and management needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
Practical operation Maximum potential value Base salary reflects the role, the executives skills and experience, The base salaries of executive directors in post at the start of the and market level.
It is paid in 12 monthly instalments.
policy period, and who remain in the same role throughout the policy period, will not usually be increased by a higher percentage than the To determine the market level, the Committee reviews remuneration average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other Group data on executive positions at companies which the Committee employees in the Group.
considers to be appropriate comparators.
Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development, The comparator companies are selected, with advice from the are where: Committees remuneration advisers, taking into account factors such as, but not limited to, sector, size, and international presence.
i An executive director has been appointed at below market level to reflect experience.
Under this scenario, increases will be capped On appointment, an executive directors base salary is set at the at 5% above the average annual percentage increase in salaries of market level, or below if the executive is not fully experienced at all other Group employees.
ii An executive director has been promoted internally and their Where base salary on appointment is below market level to reflect salary is below market level.
Under this scenario, increases will not experience, it will be increased over time to align with the market be capped and the Committee can increase base salary to the level, subject to performance.
market level within an appropriate timeframe.
Base salaries of all executive directors are generally reviewed Performance measures once each year, with increases applying from April.
Reviews cover No performance measures apply.
individual performance, experience, development in the role and market comparisons.
86 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Annual bonus The award of annual bonuses is directly linked to personal performance and to achieving the annual Business Plan targets.
The multiplicative formula is designed to ensure that bonus payments for high personal performance are moderated where business performance is below target, or vice versa.
The aim of the deferred portion of annual bonus is to further align executives to shareholders interests, by linking share-based reward to long-term sustainable performance.
Practical operation Maximum potential value Maximum bonus potential 65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash, normally three months Role % of base salary after the end of the financial year to which it relates.
Chief Executive, Drax Group 150% Other executive directors 140% 35% of annual bonus earned is deferred in nil cost awards over sharesunder the Deferred Share Plan DSP, which vest after threeyears subject to continued employment or good leaver There is no payment for below threshold performance.
Performance measures The DSP is proposed to be introduced for 2017, as a vehicle for Corporate score is based on performance against the corporate deferring the relevant proportion of annual bonus in shares.
scorecard of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the Committee each year, in conjunction with the Board.
Performance Annual bonus earned subject to the maximum opportunity is: measures include financial, production, strategic and other Business Plan objectives.
Typically at least 30% of the corporate scorecard is Target bonus x corporate score x personal score.
based on financial objectives, around 30% on strategic goals and at least 30% is based on specific objectives within business units, but Target bonus is 50% of maximum.
the Committee has discretion to vary the weightings from year toyear.
Corporate score ranges from zero to 2.0.
The corporate scorecard is amended each year, in line with business Each measure in the corporate scorecard is assigned a weighting and strategy and objectives.
three performance levels low, target and stretch.
The score is zero if performance is below the low target, 1 if performance is at target and Personal score.
The Committee determines the personal objectives for 2 for stretch performance.
Although the individual elements are the Group Chief Executive, who in turn proposes personal objectives scored up to 2, the bonus is capped at 1.5 for the other executive directors, which are reviewed and approved by the Committee.
Generally, all executive directors will be awarded Personal score ranges from zero to 1.5. a single score based on their collective performance in providing effective day-to-day leadership of the Group as a unified leadership The score is zero if performance is below threshold, 1 if performance team.
Personal scores may differ in circumstances of exceptional is at target level and 1.5 for exceptional performance of the executive over or under performance.
In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee believes Dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate, the additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest.
Committee has discretion to amend performance measures and targets during the year.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply clawback to any annual bonus awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table.
Summary corporate scorecard and performance results are published in the Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the Annual bonus and can amend the final outcome to ensure that bonus payments reflect overall performance.
The use of such discretion will be explained fully in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
87 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Drax 2017 Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP is the Companys new long-term incentive plan.
It replaces the legacy BMP and links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
Practical operation Maximum potential value The PSP is a new long-term performance share plan, which is being The maximum annual grant is 175% of base salary.
put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Performance measures Under the PSP, executive directors receive an annual grant of nil cost There are two performance measures which apply to PSP awards, conditional awards over shares.
asfollows: Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to i TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 350 continued service or good leaver termination provisions, and the comparator group 50% of award, vesting as follows: achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period determined by the Committee.
Vested awards are subject to a Below Median 0% furtherholding period of two years.
At Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assume notional reinvestment are paid on PSP awards.
ii Average corporate scorecard as described in the annual bonus over three financial years 50% of award, vesting as follows: The Committee will include an override provision in each grant under the PSP.
This will give the Committee discretion to determine that Average Score 0.75 0% novesting shall occur, or that vesting shall be reduced, if there are Average Score 1 50% circumstances relating to the Companys overall performance or Average Score 1.5 100% otherwise which make vesting when calculated by reference to theperformance conditions alone inappropriate.
While each annual corporate score can range from zero to 2.0, the three-year average corporate score is capped at 1.5.
For illustration: In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus or clawback to unvested vested awards, as set out in the notes to the Year 1 Score 1.8 policy table.
Year 2 Score 0.9 Year 3 Score 1.2 The Committee reserves discretion to: Average corporate score 1.3 i amend the performance conditions targets attached to Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for outstanding awards granted under this policy, in the event of bothconditions.
a major corporate event or significant change in economic circumstances, or a change in accounting standards having a material impact on outcomes: and ii adjust the vesting of PSP awards and or the number of shares underlying unvested PSP awards, on the occurrence of a corporate event or other reorganisation.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment of long-term incentives will be determined in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
88 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Pension Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery of the leadership and management needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of Maximum is 20% of base salary.
the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
The employers contribution for executive directors is 20% of base salary.
Performance measures No performance measures apply.
Alternatively, at their option, executive directors may either have contributions of the same amounts made to their personal pension schemes, cash in lieu of pension subject to normal statutory deductions : or a combination of pension contributions and cash inlieu of pension.
Benefits Benefits are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of directors total remuneration.
Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive directors receive a car allowance, life assurance four times Benefits are set at a level appropriate to the individuals role salary, the opportunity to participate in all-employee share plans on and circumstances.
the same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment and annual private medical cover.
The maximum opportunity will depend on the type of benefit and cost of its provision, which will vary according to the market and Additional benefits may be provided if the Committee considers individual circumstances.
Performance measures Relocation expenses and or second base expenses are paid, where No performance measures apply.
Directors relocation expenses are determined on a case-by-case basis.
The policy is designed to assist the director to relocate to a home of similar standing.
Share ownership guideline The Groups share ownership guidelines align the interests of executives with shareholders.
Practical operation Maximum potential value The share ownership guideline is that all executive directors should N A retain shares to the value of 200% of base salary, to be accumulated over five years.
Until this level is reached, directors who receive Performance measures shares by virtue of any share plan award or who receive deferred N A bonus shares must retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions.
Only shares that have actually vested count towards the threshold.
89 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Changes to executive directors remuneration policy from previous policy A summary of the key changes to the existing Drax remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM the existing policy is set out below: Component Existing policy New policy Reasons for change Base salary Where an executive director has been Removal of restriction for executive Removing the limitations on salary increases appointed at a starting salary below directors internally appointed below in respect of internal promotions supports market, the directors salary may be market salary or promoted to a role with succession planning and encourages increased to market, but increases in increased scope or expanded nature development of our talent pool.
anyone year are limited to not more than ofresponsibilities.
5% above the average for the workforce inthat year.
Benefits and pensions Changes to clarify operation and maximum value of benefits in existing policy.
N A Annual bonus Executive directors with good leaver New Deferred Share Plan introduced as Changes recognise that the primary aim of status receive their deferred shares, vehicle for deferred element of bonus bonus deferral is to ensure that the short-term pro-rated for the period of service, remains as 35% of bonus earned.
performance is linked to sustainable returns to immediately on cessation of employment.
shareholders, more closely aligning executives Deferred bonus shares for good leavers and shareholder interests.
will vest in full without time pro-rating, at the normal vesting date.
Long-term incentives BMP operated, whereby maximum Removal of link between annual bonus fide-coupling the long-term incentives from the opportunity is linked to annual bonus andlong-term incentive opportunity and annual bonus simplifies remuneration.
introduction of new Performance SharePlan.
Increasing the vesting for achieving median Maximum opportunity: Group Chief TSR performance and a Company Scorecard Executive 225% of base salary, other Maximum opportunity 175% of base of 1 achieves a better balance between executive directors 210% of base salary.
salary for all executive directors.
performance and reward and aligns more closely with market norms.
50% based on relative TSR vs FTSE 51150, 50% based on relative TSR vs FTSE 350 with 15% vesting at median performance.
with 25% vesting at median performance.
The change to the TSR comparator group reflects Draxs market capitalisation.
50% based on Company Scorecard with: 50% based on Company Scorecard with: Introduction of holding period aligns Nil vesting below a Score of 1 Nil vesting below a Score of 0.75 executives more closely with shareholder 15% vesting for a Score of 1 50% vesting for a Score of 1 value over the longer term and brings the 100% vesting for a Score of 1.5 100% vesting for a Score of 1.5 operation more in line with corporate governance best practice.
Awards released after three years.
Two-year holding period added post-vesting.
Shareholding requirement Shareholding of 175% of base salary for the Shareholding of 200% of base salary to be Further strengthening the alignment of Group Chief Executive and 125% of base accumulated for all executive directors executive and shareholder interests.
salary for other executive directors to within a five-year period.
Equalisation of shareholding requirements across the executive directors is in line with our team approach to executive remuneration.
90 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Elements of existing policy that will continue BMP awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016 Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Performance measures Bonus Matching Plan deferred and conditional awards Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance Vesting of conditional awards is subject to relative made in 2014, 2015 and 2016. conditions conditional awards and continued service TSRand average corporate scorecard outcome over or good leaver termination provisions deferred and three years.
Links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the conditional awards.
achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
Further details of the terms of the awards were included in the Annual remuneration reports of the respective years.
Performance measures and approach to setting targets The measures for elements of variable pay are: Corporate scorecard, consisting of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the Committee each year in conjunction with the Board.
Thecorporate scorecard aligns incentives of executive directors with achievement of key business goals.
Personal objectives, which typically reflect the collective performance of the executive directors in providing effective day-to-day leadership of the Group, as a unified leadership team.
Relative TSR, which aligns executive director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the Business Plan and other circumstances as appropriate.
A summary of the corporate scorecard targets that apply for the following year are disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration on page 105.
Circumstances in which malus or clawback may apply Malus and or clawback may be applied to incentive awards under the following circumstances: Clawback for the annual bonus the Committee may require a director to repay any amount of annual bonus payment it considers appropriate, in circumstances of financial misstatement, or misconduct, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Malus and clawback for the BMP if a repayment of bonus is required see annual bonus above the Committee shall reduce the number of shares that may vest under the BMP by an appropriate amount in respect of an award made pursuant to the annual bonus payment subject to the clawback.
The Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a BMP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Malus and clawback for the PSP and DSP the Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a PSP and or DSP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Committees judgement and discretion In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives payable, the Committee has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to executive directors remuneration.
These include, but are not limited to: reviewing the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and applying discretion to amend the final outcome, to ensure that bonus payments reflect overall performance: deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award: and determining whether a leaver is a good leaver.
Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant directors remuneration report.
91 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration scenarios The composition and value of the executive directors remuneration packages at threshold, target and outperformance scenarios under the Drax Group remuneration policy are set out in the charts below.
The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following table: Scenario Base salary, pension and benefits Annual bonus PSP Minimum Salary is the rate payable to each director from None None 1 January 2017 Target 50% of the maximum bonus TSR: 62.5% vesting midpoint between threshold and maximum The value of benefits is taken from the single figure for the year ended 31 December 2016 Scorecard: 50% vesting Pension is the value of the pension payable on Maximum Maximum bonus 150% of salary for Group Chief Maximum PSP opportunity 175% of salary with the salary rate used Executive, 140% of salary for other executive no allowance for share price appreciation or directors dividend equivalents Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive, Will Gardiner Chief Financial officer Andy Koss Chief Executive, Drax Power Drax Group Remuneration 000s Remuneration 000s Remuneration 000s 1,370 2,630 3,000 2,000 1,500 1,720 2,500 39% 1,200 38% 1,500 40% 916 1,760 1,149 2,000 900 33% 32% 33% 1,500 1,000 32% 33% 32% 600 24% 765 24% 393 492 24% 1,000 500 100% 44% 29% 100% 43% 28% 300 100% 43% 29% 500 0 Minimum On Target Maximum 0 Minimum On Target Maximum 0 Minimum On Target Maximum Fixed elements Multi-period variable Fixed elements Multi-period variable Fixed elements Multi-period variable Annual variable Annual variable Annual variable Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee will apply the core principles on page 84 and the components set out in the table on pages 86 to 89 to determine the remuneration of newly appointed directors.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the director being appointed.
Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to good performance.
In relation to directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment of the director, the Committee may: pay sign-on compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives subject to the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Companys right to clawback any amount which is subsequently paid to the executive by the former employer, and to clawback an appropriate proportion of the payment if the executive leaves soon after appointment : and make appropriate payments in circumstances where a director is relocated from outside the UK.
92 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Service agreements and compensation on loss of office Executive directors service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months notice.
Element Details Notice periods Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Under each of the executive directors service agreements, the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benefits that would have accrued to the executive director during the contractual notice period.
Compensation If an executive directors employment is brought to an end by either party and if it is necessary to determine a termination payment, the Committees policy, for loss of office in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to determine a directors termination payment in accordance with his her service agreement.
The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the director during the contractual notice period.
The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement.
It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation if the director has secured another job at a similar level.
Mitigation would not apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his her statutory rights.
No service agreement includes any provision for the payment ofcompensation upon termination.
Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time and in the light of thecircumstances.
Treatment of All bonus payments are discretionary benefits.
The Committee will consider whether a departing director should receive an annual bonus in respect of the annual bonus on financial year in which, and or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the termination date of termination.
The Committee will take into account performance: cooperation with succession: any breach of goodwill, and adherence to contractual obligations restrictions.
If the termination is by the Company on less than the notice specified in the directors service agreement, the Committee will also consider whether the director should receive an annual bonus in respect of any period of the financial year following termination for which the director has been deprived of the opportunity to earn annual bonus.
If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the director will be treated as a good leaver and the director will be eligible for a bonus payment: redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company: and death.
If the termination is for any other reason, a bonus payment will be at the Committees discretion and it is the Committees policy to ensure that any such bonus payment properly reflects the departing directors performance and behaviour towards the Company.
Therefore the amount of any such payment will be determined as described in the table on page 87, taking into account i the directors personal performance and behaviour towards the Company and ii the Group performance.
If a bonus payment is made, it will normally be paid as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been determined for the relevant period.
There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the bonus payment to be made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target Group performance score shall be assumed.
No payment will be made unless the director is employed on the date of bonus payment, except for good leavers as defined above.
Treatment of The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the director under the BMP, DSP and PSP should lapse or vest.
unvested Any determination by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the BMP as approved by shareholders, DSP and PSP.
long-term incentive and In summary, the rules of the BMP and PSP provide that awards will vest pro-rated to the date of employment termination if employment ends for any of the deferred share following reasons long-term good leaver reasons : awards on termination redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company: change of ownership: and death.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the BMP and PSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so, it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Companys performance: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, deferred and conditional shares vest as soon as reasonably practicable following termination.
Awards, which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated and will be phased over the performance cycle of the relevant awards.
The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest in full if employment ends for any of the long-term good leaver reasons detailed above.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the DSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Companys performance: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: and a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the DSP and PSP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises discretion to vest awards earlier.
Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions will be time pro-rated.
Outside Executive directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chairmans approval.
Normally only one appointment to a listed company would appointments be approved.
Fees may be retained by the director.
93 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Consideration of circumstances for leavers The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving director is fair and appropriate, taking account of all relevant circumstances.
Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award an annual bonus payment and or permit the vesting of PSP awards include: the directors continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice: and the director accommodating the Company in the timing of his her departure and handover arrangements.
Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is: poor performance: or the director does not continue to perform effectively following notice.
Remuneration of non-executive directors and Chairman Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Maximum potential value Fees The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Committee whilst that of the other non-executive Overall aggregate fees paid to all To attract a Chairman and directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
These are determined in the non-executive directors will remain independent non-executive lightof: within the limit as stated in the directors who, together with the Companys Articles currently executive directors, form a Board fees of chairmen and non-executive directors of other listed companies selected for comparator 1,000,000. with a broad range of skills purposes, on the same basis as for executive directors: andexperience.
the responsibilities and time commitment: and the need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators.
They were last reviewed in 2016.
Current fee levels are shown in the annual report on remuneration.
The Chairman receives an annual fee.
Non-executive directors receive an annual base fee.
Additional annual fees are paid: to the Senior Independent Director which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee : to the Chair of the Audit Committee: to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and to the Chair of any other Committee this is not paid to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee if he or she is also the Chairman of the Board.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration arrangements.
Expenses Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are reimbursed as applicable.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the Groups share-based reward plans.
The Chairmans notice period is six months whilst the other non-executive directors have a notice period of one month.
Differences between the policy and that of the remuneration of employees generally The following differences apply between the remuneration of directors and the policy on the remuneration of employees generally: executive directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for PSP awards, however, there are differences in terms of levels of grant: annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, and the requirement to defer a portion of annual bonus applies only to executive directors: employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus subject to Company performance and continued employment, whereas directors and all other UK-based employees participate in a discretionary bonus scheme: and hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments.
94 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Context Wider employee population In determining executive remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group.
The Committees policy is that annual salary increases for executive directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase for the wider employee population, unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an executive director has been appointed at a salary below market level reflecting experience in the role.
The Committee has considered a number of comparison metrics when determining its approach to executive remuneration, including the ratio of Group Chief Executive to median employee pay.
The Committee considered that the ratio is appropriate, particularly as the majority of the Group Chief Executives pay is performance linked.
Views taken from the employee population In the course of discussions on pay with employee representatives, the Group discusses executive remuneration policy and provides details of the process by which the Committee establishes executive remuneration packages.
The information provided includes details of the benchmarking of executive director remuneration, as well as information benchmarking the pay of employees in the collective bargaining unit with pay elsewhere in the industry.
Environmental, social and governance issues The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
Specific measures can be included in the balanced corporate scorecard.
The Committee is also able to consider these issues in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score, and in considering the performance conditions override under the PSP, as described on page 88.
Shareholder engagement The Company holds regular meetings with its largest shareholders, and the Committee takes into account any shareholder views or representations relating to executive remuneration.
The Company has consulted its 12 largest shareholders in relation to the formulation of its new directors remuneration policy.
95 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Annual report on remuneration The relevant sections of this report have been audited as required by the Regulations.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director audited information The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and the breakdown for each executive director for 2016, together with comparative figures for 2015: 1 2 Salary Fees Pension Bonus BMP Other benefits Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Name 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Dorothy Thompson 574 571 115 114 756 393 60 96 76 74 1,581 1,248 3 Will Gardiner 390 49 78 10 479 34 24 3 971 96 4 Andy Koss 310 n a 62 n a 381 n a 16 n a 21 n a 790 n a Notes: 1 Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service.
Base salaries The base salaries of the executive directors as at 31 December 2016, together with comparative figures as at 31 December 2015, are shown in the following table: Base salary Base salary as at as at 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Percentage 000 000 increase 1 Andy Koss 310 n a n a Will Gardiner 390 390 0% Dorothy Thompson 574 574 0% Note: 1 Andy Koss was appointed as a director on 1 January 2016.
Annual fees The Chairmans fee was set at 250,000 on his appointment on 22 April 2015 and the fee was reviewed on 16 September 2016.
Non-executive directors fees were last reviewed on 1 August 2015.
Fee rates as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are shown in the following table: Fees at Fees at 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Percentage 000 000 increase Chairman 250 250 0% Non-Executive Director base fee 55 55 0% Senior Independent Director 10 10 0% Audit Committee Chair 10 10 0% Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 0% 1 Nominations Committee Chair 7.5 7.5 0% Note: 1 This is not paid if the Chairman of the Nominations Committee is also the Chairman of the Board.
96 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director for 2016 together with comparative figures for 2015: Board fee 000 Other fees 000 Total 000 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Philip Cox Chairman of Board 250 190 250 190 Chairman of Nominations Committee Tim Cobbold 55 55 55 55 1 Melanie Gee 17 55 17 55 David Lindsell 55 55 Senior Independent Director 10 10 Chairman of Audit Committee 10 10 75 75 Tony Thorne 55 55 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10 10 65 65 Note: 1 Melanie Gee retired as a director of the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 20 April 2016.
She received her annual fee pro-rated to her date of leaving.
97 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Details of performance against metrics for variable pay awards Annual bonus plan outcome A summary of the Committees assessment in respect of the 2016 Scorecard is set out in the following table: Target Stretch weighting Low target Target target Outturn Score Group Corporate Safety Total recordable injury rate 5% 0.70 0.30 0.15 0.22 1.5 Finance Group underlying earnings per share 10% 0.0 1.1 5.9 5.0 1.8 pence Group underlying EBITDA m 10% 125 130 149 140 1.5 Cash balance at 31 December 10% 145 149 164 228.5 2.0 Group operating costs m 10% 248 238 218 236.3 1.1 Regulation EU state aid approval of CfD 20% Late approval Timely approval Early approval, Close to target 0.9 with conditionality no conditions no conditions General Increasing support for Groups business 5% Consolidated score Consolidated score Consolidated score Above target 1.3 1 activities through media channels significantly favourable significantly unfavourable favourable Drax Biomass Availability H2 5% Significantly At target Significantly Below target 0.2 below target above target 2 Pellet quality H2 5% Significantly At target Significantly Above target 1.1 below target above target Drax Power Value from operational flexibility and 5% 25m 37m 47m 62m 2.0 3 system support Progress in further coal unit 5% None Executable options Advanced progress Viable 0.5 conversions engineering options developed Retail Haven BBE Margin improvement initiatives MI in 5% 1m 2m 3m 3m 2.0 4 2016 Renewable sales at a premium 5% Significantly below On target Significantly above Above target 1.2 target performance performance target performance Total weighting 100% 1.3 Notes: 1 Based on external assessment of media reports.
2 Pellet quality combines calorific value, fines content at port and durability.
3 Combined gross margin from using fuel optionality and generation flexibility and reliability.
4 Management initiatives to improve margins and profitability without risking volume or cash.
Further details of how these individual metrics support the business strategy and drive both shareholder value and performance are found on pages 1 to 61.
98 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The Committee made an in-depth review of the score for each of the performance measures, to make sure these were individually supportable, and then reviewed the overall outcome, to determine whether to exercise its discretion and adjust the final score.
The majority of the measures are quantitative but for reasons of commercial sensitivity some of the targets are not disclosed in the Annual report.
The Committee aims for maximum transparency so the decision not to disclose a target is closely reviewed.
50% of the measures were financial and some 50% related to the implementation of the strategy.
Outlined below is a brief synopsis of the key strategic measures and their strategic rationale.
Regulation: Securing the CfD supports biomass conversion and improves predictability of revenues: General: Increasing support for Groups activities secure sustainability of biomass as a valued renewable technology: Drax Biomass: availability and quality develop strong in-house pellet supply capability: Drax Power: value from operational flexibility build sustained earnings from system support: progress in further coal unit conversion create option for further conversion to biomass: Retail Haven: renewable sales at a premium increase proportion of renewable power, in support of Group strategy.
Personal performance The members of the Executive Committee, including the executive directors were assessed both relative to their individual contribution in driving 2016 performance, and as a team.
Key to the assessment was each individuals contribution to delivering the Groups strategy and promotion of the Drax values.
Individual and team performance were both considered to be at a high level.
There was good cooperation across the executive team, which was fundamental to the successful development and implementation of themitigating actions in response to the challenging commodity markets and the European Commission delay in the approval of the CfD.
TheCommittee also recognised the collaborative approach to the development and implementation of the new strategy.
With respect to the executive directors areas of particular note included: the Group Chief Executives strong and effective leadership of the Group, the work on sustainability and the development, promotion and implementation of the new strategy, which included two significant acquisitions: the Chief Financial Officers success in identifying and implementing efficient and effective solutions for the Groups capital structure, his good support of the Group Chief Executive in the development and implementation of the new Group strategy, including responsibility for the IT strategy, the analysis of new opportunities and their potential fit to Drax and his leadership of the Opus acquisition, including the financing arrangements: the Chief Executive of Drax Powers strong leadership of the Drax generating plant, completion of the biomass transformation through the conversion of the third unit, the significant revenue initiatives within ancillary services, the work on the CfD and the leadership of the acquisition of the four development projects to build fast response gas plants.
The Committee determined that the three executive directors had performed strongly and that it was appropriate to give the same personal performance score to each.
A score of 1.35 out of 1.5 was awarded.
Actual bonus awards for 2016 2016 bonus Value of payment 1 bonus as a % of Executive director 000 base salary Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive, Drax Group 756 132% Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer 479 123% Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power 381 123% Notes: 1 The value of the bonus shown in the table above is made up of 65% paid in cash and 35% deferred into shares.
Details of deferred bonus share awards audited information The following deferred bonus shares, which were awarded in 2013 in respect of the 2012 annual bonus, vested in 2016.
Value of 1 vesting Number of Executive director 000 shares Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive, Drax Group 80 29,494 Notes: 1 The value of the vesting is based on the share price 270.27 pence at which the shares were subject to income tax and National Insurance Contributions on the vesting date.
2 Paul Taylor ceased to be a director on 31 December 2015 but remained an employee.
His deferred bonus shares awarded in 2013 in respect of the 2012 annual bonus vested in 2016.
The total number of shares which vested from those awards including dividend shares was 12,810 and the value of the vesting was 34,622, which was based on the share price 270.27 pence at which the shares were subject to income tax and National Insurance Contributions on the vesting date.
99 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Detail of BMP incentive outcomes audited information Awards under the BMP, which were subject to performance conditions and which vested in 2016, were: TSR performance condition: 0% Scorecard performance condition: 43.33% Directors interests under the BMP The table below shows the interests of the executive directors in the Companys BMP, as at 31 December 2016 and 15 February 2017.
No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse.
Thenumber of dividend shares awarded is calculated based on the actual dividends paid to ordinary shareholders in the period following the initial award up until the award vests.
2 The Deferred Awards referred to above are the share awards made in respect of the deferral of cash bonus awarded each year.
Those share awards operate under the rules of the BMP.
3 Details of the conditions subject to which the above awards will vest are given on page 91.
4 The face value of the awards is calculated based on the share price on 31 December 2016, which was 377.9 pence per share.
100 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE The table below shows former directors interests in the Companys BMP, as at 31 December 2016 and 15 February 2017.
5 Peter Emery left the Company on 31 December 2015.
The Awards which vested were pro-rated from the date of the Award to the date of leaving.
6 Paul Taylor ceased to be a director on 31 December 2015 but he has continued in employment on a part-time basis.
Pauls 2016 BMP Award was in respect of his role as a director in 2015.
Total pension entitlements for defined contribution schemes audited information Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Groups defined contribution pension plan, with either an employer contribution of 20% of base salary, or contributions to a personal pension, or cash in lieu of pension, or a combination of any of these up to amaximum contribution of 20% of base salary.
No director was a member of the defined benefit pension scheme.
101 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Payments for loss of office Melanie Gee ceased to be a non-executive director on 20 April 2016, following her retirement at the conclusion of the AGM.
In 2016, she received her annual base fee of 55,000 as a non-executive director, pro-rated for the period 1 January 2016 to her date of leaving.
The actual fees received for the period were 16,805.
Peter Emery ceased to be a director of the Company on 31 December 2015 and his service agreement terminated on that date.
In 2016 he received apayment of 183,737, which was in line with the provisions of his service agreement and the Companys remuneration policy as set out in this report.
An initial payment of 183,737 in lieu of outstanding notice for the period 1 January 2016 to 10 November 2016 in respect of salary, pension payments and contractual benefits the PILON payment was paid in January 2016 as the initial payment of 50% of the PILON payment.
Any further instalments of the PILON payment will be calculated when the value of his remuneration from alternative employment can be determined.
Shareholder voting The table below shows the voting outcome for the Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 23 April 2014 and for the Annual report on remuneration at the AGM on 20 April 2016.
For Against Votes withheld Total Shares % Shares % Shares % Shares % Approval of the directors remuneration policy 2014 272,348,741 82.00 17,116,591 5.16 42,643,941 12.84 332,109,273 100 Approval of the annual report on remuneration 359,318,445 98.78 464,991 0.13 3,968,115 1.09 363,751,551 100 The new Remuneration Policy is subject to a shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information During the year, the shareholding guidelines required executive directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards, or who receive deferred bonus shares, to retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and National Insurance Contributions until the value was equal to at least 175% and 125% of salary respectively for the Group Chief Executive and other executive directors.
As at 31 December 2016, the shareholding guidelines were met in part, as detailed in the table below, which also shows the executive directors shareholdings and share interests as at that date.
Beneficial ownership of director or connected Deferred Awards not Awards subject persons subject to performance to performance BMP Share Sharesave BMP Share 2 3 Name Year ending 31 December 2016 Shares Awards Options Awards Total Will Gardiner Number 41,346 5,063 14,778 353,504 414,691 1 Value at year end 156,247 19,133 55,846 1,335,891 1,567,117 Shareholding as a percentage of salary 40% Andy Koss Number 34,153 5,633 145,141 184,927 1 Value at year end 129,064 21,287 548,487 698,839 Shareholding as a percentage of salary 61% Dorothy Thompson Number 329,512 133,936 4,637 611,566 1,079,651 1 Value at year end 1,245,225 506,144 17,523 2,311,108 4,080,001 Shareholding as a percentage of salary 217% Notes: 1 Share price at 31 December 2016 was 377.9 pence per share.
2 Includes, where applicable, shares held by the Trustee of the Drax Group plc Share Incentive Plan.
3 The deferred share awards not subject to performance are the annual bonus deferred shares.
102 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors.
The table below shows the shareholdings of the non-executive directors and their connected persons and the value as at 31 December 2016, when the share price was 377.9 pence per share.
Number Value at Name of shares year end Tim Cobbold 1,000 3,779 Philip Cox 60,000 226,740 David Lindsell 7,500 28,342 Tony Thorne 7,500 28,342 Service agreements The following table shows, for each director of the Company at 15 February 2017, or those who served as a director of the Company at any time during the year ended 31 December 2016, the start date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods.
Notice period Notice period Unexpired term at the date of by the Company by the director Director Contract start date Contract term years publication months months months Tim Cobbold 27 September 2016 3 years 2 years and 7 months 1 1 Philip Cox 1 January 2015 3 years 10 months 6 6 Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Melanie Gee 1 January 2016 3 years Not applicable 1 1 Andy Koss 1 January 2016 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 David Lindsell 1 December 2014 3 years 9 months 1 1 Dorothy Thompson 3 September 2013 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Tony Thorne 29 June 2016 3 years 2 years and 4 months 1 1 Drax eight-year TSR data to 31 December 2016 The following graph shows how the value of 100 invested in both the Company and the FTSE 350 index on 31 December 2008 has changed.
This index has been chosen as a suitable broad comparator against which the Companys shareholders may judge their relative returns given that, in recent years, the Company has been a member of the FTSE 350 index.
The graph reflects the TSR determined according to usual market practice for the Company and the index referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2016.
350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Drax FTSE 350 Group Chief Executives pay in last eight financial years Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dorothy Thompsons total single figure 000 903 1,155 1,196 1,406 3,360 1,854 1,248 1,581 Bonus % of maximum awarded 77% 100% 100% 100% 100% 73% 46% 88% BMP Matching Award % of maximum vesting 40.52% 21.66% 15.43% 103 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Percentage change in the Group Chief Executives remuneration compared with the wider employee population The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 compareswith the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has selectedall Group employees below executive director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide themost appropriate comparator.
Bonus Taxable Salary benefits 000 Percentage Percentage increase increase 2015 2016 % increase Dorothy Thompson 0% 2.7% 392.6 755.7 92% Average for UK employees 2.7% 0.7% 4.5 6.6 46% Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, namely distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure.
These were the most significant outgoings from the Company in the last financial year, other than normal operating costs.
104 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2017 The Remuneration Policy will be implemented following the AGM in 2017 as follows: The Committee will review salaries in accordance with the Policy and will take account of the increase in base pay of the collective bargaining group and other salary reviews in the Group.
Balanced corporate scorecard The Scorecard measures and targets for 2017 have been established for the Group and for each Group business.
Details of performance against the measures will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual report on remuneration so far as possible, whilst maintaining commercial confidentiality.
The following table sets out the categories and a description of the measures.
Group Safety Total recordable injury rate Low target and stretch have both been set at the same level as 2016.
Finance Group underlying earnings Targets take account of Business Plan and current market expectations.
per share, profit, net debt Drax Biomass fines at UK disport Strategic target based on optimising quality across the whole supply chain.
New strategy implementation Progress in implementing new Group strategy and defined deliverables for identified projects as well as qualitative assessment of further progress.
Drax Biomass Variable costs Targets for cost reduction $ tonne, Drax Biomass strategic focus: production of low cost pellets at quality.
Output Target for reliable production Drax Biomass strategic focus: sustained reliable operations.
Drax Power Biomass unit technical availability Target for high availability Drax Power strategic focus: maximise sustained value through availability.
performance Value from operational flexibility Target to capture value from system support Drax Power strategic focus: sustained earnings from andreliability system support given increase in UK electricity system stress.
Haven Power Profit Target based on Business Plan Haven strategic focus: sustained profitable business at scale.
Implementation of new ERP Target based on detailed planned deliverables Haven strategic focus: project delivery critical for strategy of achieving sustained profitability.
Opus Profit Target based on Business Plan strategic focus: delivering value from acquisition.
Sales volume Target based on Business Plan strategic focus: delivering continued growth at Opus.
Renewal rate Target based on Business Plan strategic focus: continued customer satisfaction to support growth and profitability.
Performance measures for Performance Share Plan The performance measures to be used in 2017 PSP Awards are as described on page 88 in the Remuneration Policy report.
Non-executive directors fees Non-executive directors fees will be reviewed by the Chairman and executive directors in July 2017.
105 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee activity and key decisions in 2016 Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2016 are shown in the table below: February Considered the 2015 balanced corporate scorecard and decided not to exercise its discretion to adjust the score.
Adopted the 2016 balanced corporate scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of2016 remuneration.
Approved executive director and senior staff personal scores and annual bonus awards for 2015.
Approved the Group Chief Executives annual bonus.
Approved the vesting of the 2013 BMP awards, which was reported in the 2016 Annual report onremuneration.
Considered the pro-rating of deferred bonus awards.
Considered and approved the 2015 Annual Remuneration report.
Approved awards under the BMP and all-employee Sharesave Share Plan.
Approved the proposed approach and outline timetable for the review of the Remuneration Policy inpreparation for its presentation to the 2017 AGM for approval.
Approved the retention of PwC as Remuneration Committee adviser.
March Considered a proposal for senior staff and executive directors salary review.
Considered the Remuneration Policy review.
June Considered the Remuneration Policy review.
Agreed the remuneration terms for Jonathan Kinis appointment to the Executive Committee.
Considered the detail of the payments in respect of Peter Emerys payment in lieu of notice PILON payment.
September Reviewed the Chairmans remuneration.
November Noted the performance status of outstanding share plans and approved in principle the operation ofshare plans in 2017.
Reviewed the fees paid to PwC as, the Committees remuneration adviser, together with fees paid by the Group to PwC for other matters, and reviewed PwCs independence.
In 2016, the Remuneration Committee comprised Tony Thorne, Chairman of the Committee: Tim Cobbold: Philip Cox: David Lindsell: and Melanie Gee until 20 April 2016, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Group Company Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Chief Executive was invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when her own remuneration was discussed.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year and its members attendance record is set out on page 82, along with details of other attendees.
Adviser to the Committee The adviser to the Committee for the year was  LLP PwC.
PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee inOctober 2010, following a competitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of executive and non-executive directors.
From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specific matters.
The Committee will continue to monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwCs independence as an adviser to the Committee.
PwC was paid 78,000 during 2016 in respect of advice given to the Committee.
The Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive regarding the performance and remuneration of the other executive directors and senior staff.
During 2016, the Committee has also been advised by Philip Hudson, the Group Company Secretary to 30 June 2016, David McCallum, the Group Company Secretary from 1 July 2016, Richard Neville, Head of Human Resources to 31 July 2016 and Samantha Brook, Head of Corporate HR from 1 August 2016.
106 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Other matters Wider employee population The average pensionable pay of an executive director is 9.6 times the average of pensionable pay for all UK employees within the Group.
Remuneration received from external appointments Remuneration received by executive directors for service as a non-executive director elsewhere is retained by the director.
Detailed below is the remuneration they received.
Fees received Name External organisation 2015 2016 Dorothy Thompson Johnson Matthey Plc resigned 20 July 2016 76,000 43,000 Dorothy Thompson Court of the Bank of England 15,000 15,000 Dorothy Thompson Eaton Corporation plc appointed 29 July 2016 58,000 Will Gardiner Qardio plc This report was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee on 15 February 2017.
Tony Thorne Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 107 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
