Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee within our policy to ensure that our structures remain effective, competitive and aligned with the Company's objectives.
Performance and reward outcomes in the 2016 financial year Challenging business conditions during the 2016 financial year meant that performance in the year declined from the strong position in 2015.
Profit before tax was 495 million 2015: 686 million and ROCE including lease adjustments was 14.6% 2015: 22.2%.
There was an improvement in total cost per seatbut on-time performance and customer satisfaction saw declines.
In determining the Executive Directors remuneration this year the Committee has balanced the principle of paying for CHARLES GURASSA performance with the need to motivate and retain our key Chair of the Remuneration Committee leaders.
"Despite the challenging market conditions, the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors executive team has been able to deliver solid operational and remuneration report the ""Report"" for the year ended 30 financial performance and the Company is now in a strong September 2016."
The 2016 Report sets out details of the position to capitalise on the opportunities provided by the remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, current market conditions and to build and strengthen its describes how the remuneration policy is implemented and strategic position for the long-term.
discloses the amounts paid relating to the year ended 30 Bonus September 2016.
Annual bonuses are based on profit before tax and key Objectives of the Committee operational and financial targets.
A bonus of 13% of the The Committees primary objective is to design a remuneration maximum was awarded to the Chief Executive and a bonus framework which promotes the long-term success of the of21% of the maximum was awarded to the Chief Financial Company.
To this end we are guided by the following reward Officer in respect of the 2016 financial year which have included principles, which remain unchanged: a number of extraordinary external events such as prolonged strike action, terrorism and severe air traffic congestion.
This To establish a simple and cost-effective reward package reflects the challenging business and operating environment inline with our low-cost and efficient business model.
For during the 2016 financial year.
One-third of the bonus earned example, our Executive Directors do not receive the level of issubject to compulsory deferral into shares for three years.
executive benefits that can be found in most organisations see page 62.
LTIP The awards made in December 2013 are due to vest in To support the achievement of our stated business strategy of growth and returns.
Performance is assessed against a December 2016.
These awards are based on a combination ofaverage ROCE performance including lease adjustments range of financial, operational and longer-term targets ensuring value is delivered to shareholders, and Directors andrelative total shareholder return TSR compared to FTSE 51-150companies for the three financial years ended are rewarded for the successful delivery of the key strategic objectives of the Company.
Remuneration is heavily weighted The Group achieved average ROCE performance including towards variable pay, dependent on performance.
This lease adjustments of 19.1% and the Company did not meet the ensures that there is a clear link between the value threshold TSR performance target.
This resulted in 32% of the createdfor shareholders and the amount paid to awards vesting successfully, subject to continued employment ourExecutive Directors.
Remuneration framework Remuneration for the year ending 30 September 2017 Our remuneration structure is designed to be simple, The Companys remuneration policy was approved by transparent and to contribute to the building of a sustainable shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM in February performance culture.
It consists of a base salary, modest 2015 and we will not be asking shareholders to vote on a new benefit and pension provision and, subject to stretching policy at the 2017AGM.
We will be taking the following performance conditions, an annual bonus plan part paid in approach to implementation of the remuneration policy cash and part deferred into shares and shares awarded under fortheyear ending 30 September 2017: a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Incentive pay is subject to Bonus recovery and withholding provisions.
A post-vesting holding The Committee has set appropriate and stretching annual period operates for LTIP awards and significant share ownership bonus targets for the year ended 30 September 2017 based guidelines apply.
onprofit before tax and key operational and financial targets.
The Committee believes that the overall remuneration structure One-third of any bonus earned will be subject to compulsory continues to be appropriate.
It ensures there is significant deferral into shares for three years.
alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and LTIP shareholders, focuses Executives on safely delivering easyJet's Our LTIP for 2017 continues to be based on two measures: key strategic objectives and incorporates features which ROCE and TSR.
ROCE encourages a disciplined use of contribute to an appropriate level of risk mitigation.
That said, capital and TSR creates alignment with the fortunes of we keep the policy under review and make periodic changes ourinvestors.
60 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts The Committee believes the bonus and LTIP measures in OUR REMUNERATION POLICY combination will continue to focus the executive team on What is the role of our Remuneration Committee?
building the long-term and sustainable success of the business.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining The trading environment remains tough and the targets that remuneration for the Executive Directors and the Chairman of have been set are felt to be appropriate and demanding in the Board.
The Committee also reviews the remuneration of the that context.
Groups most senior executives in consultation with the Chief Executive.
The Committee takes into account the need to Salary recruit and retain executives and ensure that they are properly The Chief Executives salary will not be increased in 2017 and motivated to perform in the interests of the Company and its will remain at 705,600.
This compares with the typical rate of shareholders, while paying no more than is necessary.
increase to be awarded to sales, marketing and administrative employees across the Group of 1%.
What does the Committee consider when setting remuneration?
As reported last year, Andrew Findlays base salary was set at When setting the policy for Executive Directors remuneration, 425,000 when he joined the Board in October 2015.
His salary the Committee takes into account total remuneration levels was set at a significant discount to the market level with the operating in companies of a similar size and complexity, the intention that it would be brought up to the mid-market level responsibilities of each individual role, individual performance over time to reflect progression in the role.
The Committee and an individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having had reported in 2015 that it intended to increase his salary to due regard to the factors noted, is to weight remuneration 500,000 in equal increments over the next two to three towards variable pay.
This is typically achieved through setting yearssubject to individual and Company performance.
In line base pay at up to market median levels, offering very modest with this commitment, the first step in this process will be to pension and benefits, and above-market variable pay increase Andrew's salary, with effect from 1 January 2017, to opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding 462,500.
Andrew has indicated to the Committee that he performance targets.
would like his cash salary to remain static and that he would receive the amount of this increase in shares, which he would In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the retain in order to build his shareholding in the Company: the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward Committee is supportive ofhis decision.
Salary increases will ordinarily be inpercentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider Looking forward workforce.
The Committee does not formally consult directly It is two years since shareholders approved our Remuneration with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic Policy at the 2015 AGM and we will therefore be required to updates from the Group People Director.
seek approval for a policy at the 2018 AGM for a further three years.
In advance of that, the Committee intends to conduct The Committee also considers developments in institutional adetailed review of our policy and practice to ensure it remains investors best practice expectations and the views expressed fit for purpose and we plan to consult shareholders during the by shareholders during any dialogue.
How do we take into account the views of shareholders On behalf of the Committee thank you for your continued when we determine the remuneration policy?
We trust that you find the Report informative and, easyJet remains committed to shareholder dialogue and takes asalways, I welcome any comments you may have.
an active interest in voting outcomes.
We consult extensively with our major shareholders when setting our remuneration 14 November 2016 policy.
If any of these shareholders were to be opposed to our policy, we would endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
CHARLES GURASSA Chair of the Remuneration Committee WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT?
This report sets out easyJets remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes the implementation of that policy and discloses the amounts earned relating to the year ended 30 September 2016.
The report complies with the provisions of the CompaniesAct 2006 and supporting regulations.
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in a binding vote at the 2015 AGM on 12 February 2015.
The policy took formal effect from the date of approval and the intention is that it will apply until the 2018 AGM.
A summary of the policy has again been included in this report set out on pages 61 to 67 for the purposes of clarity and transparency.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee set out on pages 60 to 61 and the Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 67 to 75 will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
com 61 Directors remuneration report continued Framework used to assess Element, purpose performance and provisions and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Salary Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with changes effective The Committee To provide the from1January.
considers individual salaries at the core reward Salaries are typically set after considering salary levels in companies of forthe role.
appropriate Committee asimilar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual role, meeting each year after progression within the role, individual performance and an individuals Sufficient level to having due regard to recruit and retain experience.
Our overall policy, having had due regard to the factors noted, thefactors noted in isnormally to target salaries at the market median level.
individuals of the operating the necessary calibre Salaries may be adjusted and any increase will ordinarily be in percentage salarypolicy.
to execute the ofsalary terms in line with those of the wider workforce.
Companys No recovery provisions Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of apply to salary.
salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Benefits Executive Directors receive modest personal accident and life assurance Not applicable.
cover 0.5 x salary, at similar levels as the wider UK workforce.
The cost In line with the No recovery provisions Companys tothe Company of providing these benefits may vary from year-to-year apply to benefits.
depending on the level of the associated premium.
policyto keep remuneration Executive Directors receive no other conventional executive simple and companybenefits.
Executive Directors can pay for voluntary benefits, where Company purchasing power may provide an advantage to employees.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment as opposed to providing the benefits detailed above.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business are reimbursed so that Executive Directors are not worse off on a net of tax basis for fulfilling Company duties.
Pension Defined contribution plan with the same monthly employer contributions as Not applicable.
those offered to eligible employees in the wider UK workforce, of 7% of base To provide No recovery provisions employees with salary.
A cash alternative may be considered.
apply to employer long-term savings While individuals are not obliged to make contributions, easyJet operates a pension contributions.
via pension pension salary sacrifice arrangement whereby individuals can exchange part provisions in line of their salary for Company paid pension contributions.
Where individuals with the exchange salary this reduces employer National Insurance contributions.
Companys easyJet credits half of this reduction currently 6.9% of the salary strategy to keep exchanged to the individuals pension plan.
Share ownership 200% of salary holding required for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary Not applicable.
for the Chief Financial Officer which is expected to be reached within five To ensure alignment years of appointment.
between the Executive Directors are required to retain half of the post-tax shares vesting interests of under the LTIP until the guideline is met.
62 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Element, purpose Framework used to assess performance and provisions and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Bonuses are based on stretching financial, Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for To incentivise ChiefExecutive and 175% of salary for other operational and, in some cases, personal departmental performance measures, as set andrecognise ExecutiveDirectors.
execution of the and assessed by the Committee in its One-third of the bonus earned is subject to discretion.
Financial measures e. g. profit before business strategy compulsory deferral into shares or equivalent in on an annual tax will represent the majority of bonus, with aDeferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, typically for other measures representing the balance.
aperiod of three years, and is normally subject to Agraduated scale of targets is set for each Rewards the continued employment.
measure, with 10% of each element being achievement The remainder of the bonus is paid in cash.
payable for achieving the relevant ofannual Dividend equivalent payments may be made in cash thresholdhurdle.
financialand or shares under the DABP, at the time of vesting and operational goals.
Safety underpins all of the operational activities may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
of the Group and the bonus plan includes Compulsory All bonus payments are at the discretion of the provision that enables the Remuneration deferral provides Committee, as shown following this table.
Committee to scale back the bonus earned in alignment with the event that there is a safety event which it shareholders.
considers warrants the use of such discretion.
The cash and deferred elements of bonuses are subject to provisions which enable the Committee to recover the cash paid clawback or to lapse the associated deferred shares malus in the event of a misstatement of results for the financial year to which the bonus relates, or an error in determining the cash bonus or the number of shares comprising a deferred share award, within three years of thepayment of the cash bonus.
LTIP Each year LTIP awards may be granted subject to the LTIP awards vest based on three-year achievement of performance targets.
Awards normally performance against a challenging range of Performance Share Award vest over a three-year period.
financial targets and relative TSR performance set and assessed by the Committee in its To incentivise The maximum opportunity contained within the plan andrecognise discretion.
Financial targets will determine rules for Performance Share Awards is 250% of salary vesting in relation to at least 50% of awards.
execution of the with awards up to 300% of salary eligible to be made business strategy in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
In order for the TSR portion of the award to over the longer beearned, the Companys absolute TSR The normal maximum face value of annual awards will term.
performance must also be positive over be 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% Rewards strong theperformance period.
of salary forother Executive Directors.
financial 25% of each element vests for achieving the A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the performance threshold performance target with 100% of Committee to pay dividends on vested shares in cash andsustained theawards being earned for maximum or shares at the time of vesting and may assume the increasein performance there is straight-line vesting reinvestment of dividends.
A holding period applies to shareholder value.
share awards granted in the financial year ended 30 September 2015 and beyond.
The holding period will The LTIP includes provisions which enable the require the Executive Directors to retain the after-tax Committee to recover value in the event of a value of shares for24 months from the vesting date.
misstatement of results for the financial year to which the vesting of awards related, or an error in calculation when determining the vesting result within three years of the vesting i. e. clawback provisions apply.
The mechanism through which the clawback can be implemented enables the Committee to: i reduce the outstanding LTIP share awards i. e. malus provisions may be used to effect a clawback, or ii for the Committee to require that a net of tax balancing cash payment bemade.
com 63 Directors remuneration report continued What discretion is retained by the Committee in How were the performance metrics chosen and how operating its incentive plans?
were the performance targets set?
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, LTIP The performance metrics used for the annual bonus plan and andDABP according to their respective rules or relevant LTIP have been selected to reflect the Groups key documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where performance indicators.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with Profit before tax is used to assess annual performance as this market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and reflects how successful the Company has been in managing administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited operations effectively e. g. in maximising profit per seat whilst to, the following in relation to the LTIP and DABP: maintaining a high load factor.
The balance is determined the participants: based on how well the Company performs against other specific key performance indicators set annually e. g. the timing of grant of an award: on-timeperformance and customer satisfaction to ensure the size of an award: thatExecutive Directors are motivated to deliver across the determination of vesting: ascorecardof objectives.
discretion required when dealing with a change of control Since safety is of central importance to the business, the award orrestructuring of the Group: of any bonus is subject to an underpin that enables the determination of the treatment of leavers based on the Remuneration Committee to reduce the bonus earned in the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: event that there is a safety event that it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special LTIP awards are earned for delivering performance against dividends : and ROCE and relative TSR targets.
These seek to assess the the annual review of performance measures and weighting, underlying financial performance of the business while and targets for the LTIP from year-to-year.
maintaining clear alignment between shareholders and Executive Directors.
Targets are set based ona sliding scale In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains thattakes account of relevant commercial factors.
discretion over: Only modest awards are available for delivering threshold the participants: performance levels with maximum awards requiring substantial the timing of grant of a payment: outperformance of challenging plans.
the determination of the bonus payment: No performance targets are set for Save As You Earn and Share dealing with a change of control: Incentive Plan awards since these form part of all-employee determination of the treatment of leavers based on the arrangements that are purposefully designed to encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: and the Company.
the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan from year-to-year.
Have LTIP Awards always been granted subject to the same performance targets?
In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, The LTIP, under which the Performance Awards are granted, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or was approved by shareholders in 2015.
The measures used last set different measures if events occur which cause it to year are the same as those intended to be used in the coming determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate e. g. year.
Further details on how the awards are structured and material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, operated are set out in the plan rules which are available, on and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve request, from the Company.
their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
How does the Executive Directors pay policy differ from that for other easyJet employees?
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
employees, to make a greater part of their pay conditional on The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Save As You the successful delivery of business strategy.
This aims to create Earn and Share Incentive Plans will be as permitted under a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
remuneration received by the Executive Directors.
However, in line with the Companys policy to keep remuneration simple and Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors consistent, the benefit and pension arrangements for the are set out on page 71 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
current Executive Directors are on the same terms as those These remain eligible to vest based on their original offered to eligible employees in the wider workforce.
64 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts It should be noted that since the analysis above shows what How much could the Executive Directors earn under could be earned by the Executive Directors based on the the remuneration policy?
remuneration policy described above ignoring the potential A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to impact of share price growth, the numbers will be different to performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
The the values included in the table on page 69 detailing what was charts below show how much the Chief Executive and Chief actually earned by the Executive Directors in relation to the Financial Officer could earn under easyJets remuneration policy financial year ended 30 September 2016, since these values are as detailed above under different performance scenarios based on the actual levels of performance achieved to 30 based on their salaries as at 1 October 2016.
The following September 2016 and include the impact of share price growth assumptions have been made: in relation to share awards.
Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay only with What are the Executive Directors terms no vesting under any of easyJets incentive plans.
In line with expectations Fixed pay plus a bonus at the Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties mid-point of the range giving 50% of the maximum are required to give 12 months notice of termination opportunity and vesting of 43% of the maximum under of employment.
For Executive Directors, if notice is served by either party, the Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum Fixed Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, benefits pay plus maximum bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to Fixed pay comprises: fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
salaries salary effective as at 1 October 2016: The policy for a new hire would be based on similar terms and benefits amount received by each Executive Director in will also include the ability for easyJet to make a payment in lieu the 2016 financial year: of notice of up to 12 monthly instalments which would be pension employer contributions or cash-equivalent reduced if alternative employment was taken up.
payments received by each Executive Director in the 2016 Under the current Chief Executives contract, the Company, financial year: and bymutual consent, may elect to make a payment in lieu of Free and matching shares under the all-employee share notice equivalent in value to 12 months basic salary, payable incentive plan.
inmonthly instalments which would be subject to mitigation ifalternative employment is taken up during this time.
The scenarios do not include any share price growth or Alternatively, this payment may be paid as a lump sum.
payments may be made, payable in cash, on a pro-rata basis, but only for the period of time served from the start of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE financial year to the date of termination and not for any Below threshold periodin lieu of notice.
Any bonus paid would be subject to 100% 757,000 thenormalbonus targets, tested at the end of the financial year.
The current Chief Executive has a contractual entitlement In line with expectations to such a pro-rated payment under her service contract, other 34% 32% 34% 2,212,000 than in the cases of resignation or termination resulting from gross misconduct.
These provisions do not apply to the Chief Exceeds target Financial Officer.
19% 36% 45% 3,932,000 In relation to a termination of employment, the Committee Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Performance maymake any statutory entitlements or payments to settle orcompromise claims in connection with a termination of CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER anyexisting or future Executive Director as necessary.
Below threshold TheCommittee also retains the discretion to reimburse 100% 457,000 reasonablelegal expenses incurred in relation to a termination of employment and to meet any outplacement costs if In line with expectations deemed necessary.
38% 31% 30% 1,190,000 The Executive Directors service contracts and the NonExceeds target Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for 22% 36% 41% 2,050,000 inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Performance What is the policy when an Executive Director leaves or there is a takeover?
The rules of both schemes LTIP and DABP set out what happens to awards if a participant ceases tobe an employee orDirector of easyJet before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse on such cessation, except in certain circumstances.
com 65 Directors remuneration report continued If an Executive Director ceases to be an employee or Director Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, of easyJet as a result of death, injury, retirement, the sale of the flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of business or company that employs the individual, or any other those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the treated as a good leaver under the relevant plans rules.
Under unique circumstances of such an appointment.
the DABP, the shares for a good leaver will normally vest in full The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on an on the normal vesting date or on cessation of employment in ongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be in the case of death and if the award is in the form of an option, accordance with the approved policy detailed above, i. e. at an there is a 12-month window in which the award can be aggregate maximum of up to 450% of salary 200% annual exercised.
Awards structured as options which have vested bonus and 250% Performance Shares under the LTIP, taking prior to cessation can be exercised within 12months of into account annual and long-term variable pay.
This limit does cessation of office or employment.
not include the value of any buy-out arrangements.
Under the LTIP, a good leavers unvested awards will vest either Different performance measures may be set initially for the on the normal vesting date or the relevant date of cessation, as annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the determined by the Committee subject to achievement of any individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined.
relevant performance conditions, with a pro-rata reduction to Any incentive offered above this limit would be contingent on reflect the proportion of the vesting period served.
The the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it to its approved policy at its next AGM.
considers it appropriate to do so.
A good leaver may exercise their vested awards structured as options for a period of 12 The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the months following the individuals cessation of office or Board or an external hire.
employment, whereas unvested awards may be exercised In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out within 12 months of vesting.
incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be as a good leaver, and the extent to which their award may vest, provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any individuals departure.
existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted In the event of a takeover or winding-up of easyJet plc which is using easyJets share plans to the extent possible, although not part of an internal reorganisation of the easyJet Group, in awards may also be granted outside these schemes if circumstances where equivalent replacement awards are not necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
granted all awards will vest subject to, in the case of LTIP awards, the achievement of any relevant performance In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding variable conditions with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be paid ofthe vesting period served.
The Committee has discretion to according to its terms of grant adjusted as relevant to take disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
into account the Board appointment.
Inthe event of a takeover, the Committee may determine, with On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive the agreement of the acquiring company, that awards will be Director, fees will be set taking into account the experience exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
Where specific cash or share What is the policy on Executive Directors holding arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, these external appointments?
will not include share options or other performanceExecutive Directors are permitted to accept one appointment related elements.
on a board of a listed company so long as this is not thought to How are the Non-Executive Directors paid?
interfere with the business of the Group.
Any fees received in The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors respect of these appointments are retained directly by the receive an annual fee paid in monthly instalments.
The fee for relevant Executive Director.
the Chairman is set by the Remuneration Committee and the What would the remuneration policy be if a new fees for the Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are Director was appointed?
approved by the Board, on the recommendation of the Base salary levels will be set in accordance with easyJets Chairman and Chief Executive.
remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and What are the terms of appointment of the calibre of the individual e. g. typically up to market median Non-Executive Directors?
levels but salaries above or below this level may be set The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors dependent upon the level of the individual.
Where it is terms of appointment are recorded in letters of appointment, appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases which are usually renewed every three years.
The required to achieve the desired salary positioning may be given over the notice from the Company is three months in all cases.
The following few years subject to individual performance.
Benefits Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation will be provided in line with those offered to other employees, on loss of office.
with relocation expenses arrangements provided if necessary.
easyJet may offer a cash amount on recruitment, payment of which may be staggered, to reflect the value of benefits a new recruit may have received from a former employer.
66 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable Fees To attract and retain a The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
high-calibre Chairman, The other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary fees Deputy Chairman payable for additional Board Committee responsibilities.
andNon-Executive Directorsby offering The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the market-competitive Companys incentive arrangements.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, and may be increased, taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to exceed current fee levels if it is necessary to do so in order to appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of an appropriate calibre.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business will be reimbursed so that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not worse off, on a net of tax basis, for fulfilling Company duties.
No other benefits or remuneration are provided to the Chairman or .
administration services to the Company.
NBS was appointed by ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION the Committee in 2004.
NBS advises the Committee on Who is on the Companys Remuneration Committee?
developments in executive pay and on the operation of As at 30 September 2016, the members of the Committee easyJets incentive plans.
Total fees excluding VAT paid to NBS were: in respect of services to the Committee during the 2016 Charles Gurassa Chair financial year were 59,700.
Adle Anderson appointed to the Committee effective NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group from 1 January 2016 Code of Conduct.
The Committee has reviewed the operating Franois Rubichon processes in place at NBS and is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.
John Browett stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 31 December 2015.
Adle Anderson was How will the remuneration policy be applied for the appointed to the Committee in his place.
Chris Browne was also 2017 financial year?
a member of the Committee on her appointment to the Board What are the Executive Directors current salaries?
However, once it became apparent that The current and proposed salaries of the Executive Chris would be joining the Executive Management Team, the Directors are: Board determined that she was no longer independent and she 1 January 1 January therefore stepped down from the Committee in September 2017 salary 2016 salary Change 2016, ahead of the Committees last meeting of the financial CEO 705,600 705,600 0% year.
Andy Martin joined the Committee on 1 October 2016.
CFO 462,500 425,000 9% The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Andrew Findlays base salary was set at 425,000 when he Corporate governance section of the Annual Report on pages joined the Board in October 2015.
The salary was set at a 49 to 50. significant discount to the market level with the intention that it The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation and assists would be brought up to the mid-market level 500,000 over the Committee in its deliberations as appropriate.
The time to reflect progression in the role.
The increase is effective 1 Committee also receives assistance from the Group People January 2017, to 462,500 which was subject to an assessment Director and the Group Head of Reward.
The Company of individual and Company performance, is the first stage in this Secretary and Group General Counsel acts as secretary to the process.
Any future salary increase will remain subject to Committee.
No Directors are involved in deciding their satisfactory individual and Company performance.
Findlay has indicated to the Committee that he would like his cash salary to remain static and that he would receive the The Remuneration Committee is advised by New Bridge Street amount of this increase in shares, which he would retain in order NBS, a trading name of Aon plc.
NBS has no other to build his shareholding in the Company.
However, a sister company in the Aon group also provides pension and flexible benefits www.
com 67 Directors remuneration report continued For comparison, the typical rate of salary increase to be Awards vest on a straight-line basis from threshold to on-target awarded to employees in sales, marketing and Group and from on-target to maximum.
As with the awards granted functionsis 1%.
inthe 2016 financial year, ROCE targets are based on average ROCE over a three-year performance period, commencing What bonus will be awarded in respect of on1October 2016.
TSR targets are based on relative TSR performance in the 2017 financial year?
compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150 at the start of The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 200% of salary for theperformance period, where the average share price is the Chief Executive and at 175% for the Chief Financial Officer.
calculated over three months at the start and end of the The measures have been selected to reflect a range of financial period.
In addition, in order for the TSR-based awards to vest, and operational goals that support the key strategic objectives easyJetmust have achieved positive absolute TSR over the of the Company.
Targets are set taking account of managements strategic plan, market consensus and the The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: Boards strong focus on driving value from its increasing capital As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity base.
The Committee considers the range of ROCE targets set to be at least as demanding as those set in prior years.
Measure CEO CFO Profit before tax A post-vesting holding period requiring the Executive Directors at constant currency 70% 60% to retain the after tax value of any shares for two years from On-time performance 10% 10% the vesting date will apply to awards made in 2017.
The ability Customer satisfaction 10% 10% to apply clawback has also been extended from 2016 to cover situations where the individual is considered to have contributed Operating costs excluding fuel to any safety failure which could result in reputational damage per seat at constant currency 10% 10% for the Company.
Departmental objectives 10% How will the Non-Executive Directors be paid in the The proposed target levels for the 2017 financial year have been 2017 financial year?
set to be challenging relative to the business plan.
The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be as follows: The Committee is comfortable that the bonus targets for both Executive Directors are appropriately demanding in light of their Chairman 300,000 respective bonus opportunities.
Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 60,000 1 The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2017 financial Fees for Deputy Chairman and SID role 25,000 year, are commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective Chair of the Audit, Safety and disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be 1  15,000 provided in next years remuneration report unless they remain 1 Chair of the Finance Committee 10,000 commercially sensitive.
The safety of our customers and people 1 Supplementary fees.
underpins all of the operational activities of the Group and the bonus plan includes a provision that enables the Remuneration The Board has agreed that there will be no increase to the Committee to scale back the bonus earned in the event that basic fees for the 2017 financial year: these were last reviewed there is a safety event that occurs, which it considers warrants and increased on 1 October 2013. the use of such discretion.
One-third of the bonus earned will be deferred into shares for a period of three years and subject to continued employment.
How will the LTIP be operated in relation to the 2017 financial year awards?
The award levels for the Executive Directors in the 2017 financial year will be 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
The 2017 financial year LTIP awards will be subject to the following performance conditions: Below Maximum threshold Threshold On-target 100% 0% vesting 25% vesting 50% vesting vesting ROCE 70% of total award 9.0% 9.0% 11.2% 13.0% Below Maximum threshold Threshold 100% 0% vesting 25% vesting vesting TSR Upper 30% of total award Median Median quartile 68 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts What did the Directors earn in relation to the 2016 financial year?
2 Left the Board on 31 December 2015.
3 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 and left the Board on 30 September 2016.
4 Left the Board on 1 December 2014.
5 Performance related buy-out arrangements were agreed to compensate Andrew Findlay for bonus and LTIP forfeited from his previous employer.
The buy-out comprised a 311,837 cash pay-out as well as various share awards see page 71 for details.
Of these share awards, 22,762 vested on 7 August 2016: the share price at the vesting date was 10.35.
A further 4,680 awards will vest on 17 December 2016 based on performance measured to 30 September 2016.
For the purpose of this table, the award has been valued using the average share priceover the three months to 30 September 2016 of10.781.
This compares to 17.14 at grant.
6 Benefits relate to the cost to the Company of personal accident and life assurance cover and the value of shares during the year under the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Andrew Findlay's benefits also include a one-off relocation allowance payment of 40,000.
7 One-third of the bonus will be compulsorily deferred in shares for three years and subject to forfeiture.
8 This relates to the LTIP awards granted in December 2013 which vest in December 2016 based on performance measured to 30 September 2016.
For the purposes of this table, the award has been valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2016 of 10.781.
This compares to 14.99 at grant.
9 Carolyn McCall has reached her lifetime pension limit and received a cash alternative of 49,270 in lieu of pension contributions.
10 This relates to the LTIP awards granted in December 2012 which vested in December 2015 based on performance measured to 30 September 2015.
For the purposes of the table in last year's report, the award was valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2015 of 16.988.
The value has been updated in this table using the share price at the date of vesting of 17.15.
This compares to 7.37 at grant.
How was pay linked to performance in the 2016 financial year?
Measure CEO CFO Threshold On-Target Maximum Actual Payout Profit before tax m 70% 60% 635 706 810 495 0% 1 On-time performance 10% 10% 80% 82% 86% 81.2% 34% 2 Customer satisfaction targets 10% 10% 75% 77% 81% 72% 0% 3 Cost per seat ex.
fuel 10% 10% 37.61 37.35 36.84 36.62 100% 4 Departmental objectives 10% n a Successful Outstanding Exceeding 75% 1 81.2% represented actual on-time performance of 77% adjusted for the impact of extraordinary events primarily prolonged strike action and terrorist events and of unanticipated and severe air traffic congestion.
This adjustment neutralises the impact of these external factors and means that the resulting comparison implies the same level of stretch as was intended by the Committee when the target was set.
This adjustment is consistent with the approach taken for all other employees whose bonus is also subject to this measure.
2 Customer satisfaction this measures the percentage of our passengers that are Quite satisfied, Very satisfied or Completely satisfied at last contact.
3 Cost per seat excluding fuel targets are at constant plan currency.
4 Exceeding is half way between successful and outstanding.
com 69 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Bonus A sliding scale of targets for each objective was set at the start of the 2016 financial year.
10% of each element is payable for achieving the threshold target, increasing to 50% for on-target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Achievements between these points are calculated on a straight-line basis.
Challenging business conditions during the 2016 financial year meant that performance in the year declined from the results achievedin 2015.
Performance highlights during the year were: profit before tax was 495 million 2015: 686 million : ROCE including lease adjustments was 14.6% 2015: 22.2% : and there was an improvement in total cost per seat but on-time performance and customer satisfaction saw declines.
13% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the Chief Executive in respect of performance for the year ended 30 September 2016.
This willresult in a bonus payment of 188,632 to the Chief Executive.
One-third of the bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
21% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the Chief Financial Officer in respect of performance for the year ended 30September 2016.
This will result in a bonus payment of 154,855 to the Chief Financial Officer.
One-third of the bonus iscompulsorily deferred into shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in light of the level of performance achieved.
LTIP The awards made to Executive Directors in December 2013 were subject to a combination of average ROCE including lease adjustments and relative TSR compared to FTSE 51-150 companies performance conditions measured over the three financial years ended 30 September 2016.
The percentage which could be earned was determined using the following vesting schedule: Below threshold Threshold On Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards Below 15% 15% 18.5% 20% or above 50% of total awards TSR awards Below median Median Upper Quartile 50% of total awards Three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments to 30 September 2016 was 19.1% and the Company did not meet the threshold TSR performance target: correspondingly 32% of awards of Performance Shares and Matching Shares are due to vest in December 2016, subject to continued service.
What LTIP awards were granted to Directors in the financial year?
Details of the LTIP awards made to the Executive Directors are summarised below, with further details given in the table on outstanding share interests on page 71.
% vesting at Number Face value % of threshold 1 2 Award Type of shares salary Performance condition Performance period performance CEO Performance 102,977 1,763,996 250% 3 financial 70% based on average 3 Nil cost years ending ROCE and 30% based 25% 5 CFO Performance 49,620 849,991 200% option 30 September on relative TSR 4 2018 versus FTSE 31130 1 Face value calculated based on the closing share price of 17.13 on 17 December 2015.
2 Performance conditions are set out on page 63.
3 ROCE including lease adjustments 15% threshold to 20% maximum.
4 Relative TSR against companies ranked FTSE 31-130 median threshold to upper quartile maximum.
In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
5 The CFO was also awarded awards in relation to his buy-out agreement, which were fully disclosed in the 2015 Annual report and accounts and is detailed on page 71.
Have there been any payments to past Directors?
Audited A payment of 10,417 was paid to Professor Rigas Doganis for continuing to Chair the Safety Committee until 29 February 2016.
There have been no other payments made to past Directors during the year.
Have there been any payments for loss of office?
Audited No payments for loss of office have been made to Directors during the year.
70 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts What share awards do the Executive Directors have outstanding at the financial year end?
Audited Details of share options and share awards outstanding at the financial year end are shown in the following tables: Carolyn McCall DBE No.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued The closing share price of the Companys ordinary shares at 30 September 2016 was 10.07 and the closing price range during theyear ended 30 September 2016 was 9.90 to 18.08.
Key: A Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares B Long Term Incentive Plan Matching Shares C Share Incentive Plan Performance Free Shares D Share Incentive Plan Matching Shares E Save As You Earn Awards SAYE Notes: Note 1: The number of shares is calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior togrant.
As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the Committee in advance of the award by reference to the share price following announcement of the half year results.
Note 2: For LTIP awards made in December 2012, 50% of vesting was based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2015.
This was the first award where ROCE calculations included operating leases and this is the basis for all subsequent awards.
50% of vesting was based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
Three year average ROCE including th lease adjustments was 20.0% and the Company was ranked at the 94 percentile versus FTSE 51-150 companies in terms of TSR: correspondingly 100% of these awards vestedin December 2015.
The following targets applied for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 12.0% 12.0% 16.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median Upper quartile Note 3: For LTIP awards made in December 2013, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2016 and 50% of vesting is based on relative TSRperformance compared to companiesranked FTSE 51-150.
Three year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 19.1% and the Company did not meet the TSR performance metric.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.5% 20.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 4: For LTIP awards made in December 2014, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2017 and 50% of vesting is based on relative TSRperformance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.2% 20.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 5: For LTIP awards made in December 2015, 70% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2018 and 30% of vesting is based on relative TSRperformance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 70% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.0% 20.0% TSR awards 30% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 6: An award made to compensate Andrew Findlay for the forfeiture of the LTIP award he received in August 2013 from his previous employer.
Since around two-thirds of the vesting period for this award had already run its course, the Committee assessed the extent to which the performance targets were likely to be met based on current market forecasts in respect of the shares comprising two-thirds of the award and converted this number of shares into an equivalent value of easyJet shares on joining.
These vested on 7 August 2016, so as to mirror the original time horizon of the award.
Note 7: An award of 14,625 easyJet shares relating to the forfeiture of the LTIP Andrew Findlay received in August 2013 from his previous employer.
This award was calculated based on the value of one-third of the award at the time of joining easyJet, but these shares will only vest to the extent that the performance targets set for the 2013 easyJet LTIP award as provided in Note 3 above are met and continued employment to 17 December 2016.
This compensation replicated the assessed value of the awards forfeit and also, in part, switched into easyJet performance on a pro-rata basis for part of the award.
Note 8: An award to compensate for the forfeiture of the award granted to Andrew Findlay in August 2014 from his previous employer.
This award comprised an exchange of the maximum number of shares that could vest under his previous employer's award which were then converted to easyJet shares on joining.
These shares will only vest based on the extent to which the performance targets applying to the 2014 easyJet LTIP award as provided in Note 4 above are met and Andrew remaining in employment until 19 December 2017, being the ordinary vesting date for the easyJet award and later than the vesting date of the original award at his former employer.
Note 9: Participants buy Partnership Shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company provides one Matching Share for each Partnership Share purchased, up to the first 1,500 per year.
These Matching Shares are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
72 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts What are the shareholding guidelines for Directors?
The Chief Executive is required to build up a shareholding of 200% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer is required to build ashareholding of 175% of salary, to be built up over five years from the adoption of the policy 27 September 2012 or their appointment, if later.
Until the guideline is met, they are required to retain 50% of net vested shares from the LTIP.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, are required to build up a shareholding of 100% of annual fees over a period of three years from the adoption of the policy or date of appointment, if later.
What are the Directors current shareholdings and interests in shares?
The following table provides details on the Directors shareholdings and interests in shares as at 30 September 2016, or on leaving theBoard if earlier Audited : Unconditionally Shareholding Interests in shares owned guidelines 3 4 5 6 7 shares achieved DABP SAYE LTIP SIP Total John Barton 34,000 100% Charles Gurassa 18,198 100% Carolyn McCall DBE 328,442 100% 64,327 1,355 615,104 1,591 682,377 Andrew Findlay 91 0% 1,051 126,930 91 128,072 Adle Anderson 5,114 100% Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 5,251 100% 1 8 John Browett 5,412 100% 2 Chris Browne OBE Keith Hamill OBE 4,560 100% Andy Martin 7,000 100% Franois Rubichon 3,465 100% 1 Left the Board on 31 December2015.
2 Left the Board on 30 September 2016.
3 Includes SIP Partnership Shares, vested SIP Performance Free Shares, vested SIP Matching Shares, LTIP Investment Shares, and any shares owned by connected persons.
4 Unconditionally owned shares and share interests under the DABPcount towards achievement of the shareholding guidelines.
5 The principal terms of the DABP are described on page 63.
6 LTIP shares are granted in the form of nil cost options subject to performance.
7 Consists of unvested SIP Performance Free Shares and unvested SIP Matching Shares.
8 100% of the shareholding guideline had been achieved on the date John Browett left the Board.
Note: As at 11 November 2016, the unconditionally owned shares of Carolyn McCall had increased by 53 shares since 30 September 2016 to 328,495 shares and the unconditionally owned shares of Andrew Findlay hadincreased by 31 shares since 30 September 2016 to 122 shares.
Any changes subsequent to the date of this Report may be found on our corporate website, http: corporate.
com Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the easyJet Share Incentive Plan Trust and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust.
At 30 September 2016, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Number easyJet Share Incentive Plan Trust 1,509,231 easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust 80,487 Total 1,589,718 www.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued Position against dilution limits easyJet complies with the Investment Association's Principles of Remuneration with regard to dilution limits.
These principles require that commitments under all of the Companys share ownership schemes must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital in any rolling 10 year period.
The requirement for shares under all current share incentive schemes LTIP, Save As you Earn and Share Incentive Plan will be satisfied with share purchases on the market.
The Companys current position against its dilution limit is therefore under the maximum 10% limit.
Employee share plan participation easyJet encourages share ownership throughout the Group by the use of Performance Free Shares and Matching Shares within a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn scheme.
All staff subject to minimum service were granted shares during the year.
Executive Directors may also participate in these plans on the same terms as other eligible staff.
They are summarised in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 38.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as at 30 September 2016 for Directors are as follows: Date of current service contract Unexpired term at or letter of appointment 30 September 2016 John Barton 3 October 2013 2 years 7 months Charles Gurassa 27 June 2014 9 months Carolyn McCall DBE 1 July 2010 Andrew Findlay 10 April 2015 Adle Anderson 1 September 2014 11 months Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 19 June 2014 10 months Chris Browne 1January 2016 Keith Hamill OBE 3 March 2015 1 year 5 months Andy Martin 1 September 2014 11 months Franois Rubichon 19 June 2014 10 months Review of past performance The chart below sets out the TSRperformance of the Company relative to the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 and a group of European 1 airlines.
The FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were chosen as easyJet has been a member of both indices during the period.
Total shareholder return VALUE LOCAL CURRENCY 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 30 Sep 2008 30 Sep 2009 30 Sep 2010 30 Sep 2011 30 Sep 2012 30 Sep 2013 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2016 1 easyJet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Comparator Airlines This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2016, of 100 invested in easyJet on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index, FTSE 250 Index or a comparator group of airlines.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends overseas companies have been tracked in their local currency, i. e. ignoring exchange rate movements since 30 September 2008.
1 British Airways, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have all been included in the comparative European Airlines group.
British Airways and Iberia have been tracked forward for 2011 to 2016 as IAG.
74 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same eightyear period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP vesting percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2 Includes 266,899 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price is 17.15 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 133% on the share price at grant of 7.37.
3 Includes 445,575 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price was 16.71 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 325% on the share price at grant of 3.928.
4 Includes remuneration for the current Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall, of 178,000 and for the former Chief Executive of 2,563,000.
How does the change in Chief Executive pay for the year compare to that for easyJet employees?
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 for the Chief Executive, compared to the average earnings of all other easyJet UK employees.
% Salary Benefits Annual bonus CEO 1% 0% 79% 1 Average pay based on all easyJets UK employees 2% 0% 73% 1 Reflects the change in average pay for UK employees employed in both the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015.
How much does easyJet spend on employee pay each year?
The table below shows the total pay for all of easyJets employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September Change 2016 2015 % Employee costs m 604 582 3.8% Ordinary dividend m 214 219 2.3% Average number of employees 10,273 9,811 4.7% Revenue m 4,669 4,686 0.4% Profit before tax m 495 686 27.8% Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and profit has been provided for context.
The majority of easyJets employees around 93% perform flight and ground operations roles, with the rest performing administrative and managerial roles.
What have Executive Directors earned for holding external appointments?
Carolyn McCall DBE received fees of 80,000 in the period to 30 September 2016 for her role as Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc.
No other Executive Directors held external appointments in the year ended 30 September 2016.
How did shareholders vote on remuneration at the last AGM?
Votes cast at the AGM in February 2016 in respect of the Companys Annual report on remuneration are given in the table below.
In line with the Companys commitment to on-going dialogue with its shareholders, meetings are offered, where appropriate, to understand the reasons for any potential or actual opposition to the Companys remuneration policy.
Changes are made to our policy where it is considered appropriate to do so.
