Directors Remuneration Report Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, following my appointment during 2016.
This report sets out Electras policy in relation to Directors remuneration and how this is intended to be implemented during the coming year, subject to shareholder approval.
The current policy can be found on pages 120 to 121 of the Companys Report and Accounts to 30 September 2015, which are available on the Companys website www.
Changes to Company structure Currently Electra Private Equity the Company does not employ any executive directors and, as an investment trust, the Board consists of non-Executives Directors only.
Therefore payments to Directors in 2015 16 comprise non-Executive base fees and benefits only.
As a result of the changes to the corporate structure, discussed earlier in the report, one or more Executive Directors will be appointed to the Board in 2017.
In preparation for this, the Committee has recruited a Chief Financial Officer and agreed the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy designed to ensure that Electra is capable of attracting, reward and retaining high calibre candidates for the newly created roles.
This is summarised below and set out in full on pages 126 to 132 of this report.
It will be presented to shareholders at the AGM in March 2017.
Remuneration Policy We have designed the Remuneration Policy to ensure that pay is aligned with the long-term creation of value to shareholders as well as being in line with best practice within the industry.
In summary our policy comprises: Base salary pensions and benefits are benchmarked against similar sized companies: An Annual bonus based on financial and strategic performance measures with at least 50% of pay-outs deferred into shares for three years: A Performance Share Plan measuring performance over three years with an additional two-year holding period: and Share ownership guidelines of 200% of salary.
Implementation of the policy in 2016 17 For much of 2016 17, the Company will be in a transitional stage as it seeks to transform its operating structure from investment trust to become a corporate holding company, and assumes all operating responsibilities from Epiris.
As outlined in the RNS announcement on 14 October 2016 and earlier in this report, in making this transition the Company intends to reduce operating expenses and discounts to the underlying portfolio of assets presently managed by Epiris, from June 2017 The Companys focus during this time will be setting the strategic direction for its future operation, and preparing to assume direct operating responsibility in June 2017.
The approach to remuneration for 2016 17 will reflect that focus, and will seek to set the foundation for increasing the value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
In combination with the fact that the Company will not have access to the portfolio until June 2017, and will have limited operational influence until beyond that time, the Committee considers it appropriate to adjust the approach to be taken to remuneration for Executives for the 2016 17 performance year.
The particular approach to remuneration for 2017 will be subject to shareholder consultation, and the Committee will seek input on the proposed arrangements from shareholders to ensure transparency, a shared understanding, and broad-based support for the proposals.
Chief Financial Officer The Board intends to appoint Gavin Manson to the Board as Chief Financial Officer following the 2017 AGM.
The Committee has agrees that Mr Manson will receive a base salary of 300,000 with maximum annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunities of 125% and 200% of salary respectively.
124 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Performance measures for annual bonus plan and long-term incentives As 2016 17 is a transitional year, the Committee will select annual bonus plan measures which capture performance against our key objectives over this period while ensuring alignment with shareholders.
Since it has not been possible to set traditional performance targets such as profit or portfolio-oriented measures the Committee has determined that the 2016 17 bonus will be based on: 50% Total Shareholder Return: 40% strategic objectives: and 10% cost control.
We will employ a mixture of financial and non-financial measures, which will reflect the Companys particular focus over the coming year.
The Committee intends to consult with shareholders on the specific measures to be employed, to ensure a focus on shareholder value while appropriately incentivising executives to deliver the changes needed to position the group for future growth, The Committee believes that this will ensure a focus on shareholder value while incentivising the executives to deliver the changes needed in the year to position the group for future growth.
The long-term incentive granted in 2016 17 will be based on relative TSR verses the FTSE 250 Index.
Pay during 2015 16 During the year Neil Johnson was appointed Chairman of the Company.
The Committee agreed that his annual fee would be 200,000, significantly higher than that of his predecessor.
This reflects the skills which Mr Johnson brings to the role together with the importance and time commitment required.
The Committee is satisfied that this fee is appropriate when compared to the fees at other companies of similar size.
Edward Bramson a non-Executive acted as Interim Chief Executive during 2015 16 but he received no additional remuneration for undertaking this role.
In conclusion I believe that our proposed policy creates a strong alignment between our current and future executives and shareholders, and is relevant and aligned with market expectations for a company of this size.
I hope that you concur and that you will feel able to support our proposals at the 2017 AGM.
David Lis Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 125 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
