Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans statement The proposed changes will align incentives more closely with the Performance Improvement Plan, and create a foundation to generate significant shareholder value.
John Pattullo Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The Report also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
Dear fellow shareholder On behalf of the Board, it gives me great pleasure to present the Directors Remuneration Report Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
In line with the reporting regulations, this Report is split into three parts: this statement: the Directors remuneration policy, and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
This year, we will be seeking your approval for all sections, together with a revised Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP described below, at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 20 July 2016.
Objectives for remuneration The principal objective of our remuneration policy is to support the delivery of sustained superior performance.
In particular, we aim to incentivise our executives to deliver the recently announced Performance Improvement Plan PIP.
Our remuneration policy has been designed to support this by: Aligning the interests of executives and shareholders, via performance measures aligned with our PIP KPIs and a substantial proportion of reward delivered in the form of Electrocomponents shares Supporting the changes to behaviours and culture required to deliver the PIP Achieving an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related pay, and between the rewards available for meeting shortterm and long-term objectives Providing a total compensation package which is competitive in our global talent market Complying with corporate governance best practice guidelines Expressing the reward strategy in a way that is understandable, clear and meaningful 50 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Supporting the Performance Improvement Plan proposed changes to the incentive framework During the year, the Committee spent a considerable amount of time deciding how best to adapt the executive remuneration and incentive framework so that it appropriately reflects the step change in performance and change of culture taking place through the business following the appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer CEO.
Our PIP is set out in detail on pages 4 to 9 of the Annual Report.
The proposed changes will align incentives more closely with the PIP, and create a foundation to generate significant shareholder value.
The Committee consulted widely with key investors and shareholder bodies and received generally positive feedback and considerable support for the proposals.
The Committee took the feedback it received into account when developing the final proposals, set out below.
We are proposing a revised long-term incentive framework for awards made in the next three years.
This is divided into two elements, each with a specific objective: The first element, the Base LTIP, will continue and will provide a market-competitive ongoing opportunity.
The performance condition, however, has been revised significantly.
This condition is now based on a balanced set of three performance measures more directly aligned with the KPIs of our PIP and with the creation of shareholder value.
The EPS target range has been made significantly more challenging translating to growth rates of between 8% and 15% per annum, compared with a range of 5-10% in previous years.
The TSR measure has been recalibrated to reflect a more relevant benchmark of business performance moving from the use of the FTSE 250 to a group of other UK-listed electrical and industrial sector peers.
ROCE, which is one of our KPIs, has been introduced to capture the importance not only of increased profitablity, but also of more disciplined management of working capital and capital expenditure.
Threshold performance will result in 25% vesting rather than nil vesting as was previously the case, so as to provide a greater incentive.
This is in line with current market practice.
Added to this will be a second new element, the Transformation Multiplier, which will apply to awards made in 2016, 2017 and 2018 only.
The Multiplier is designed to provide an additional reward opportunity for delivering exceptional EPS growth driven by executing transformational change.
The Multiplier provides the opportunity to increase the Base LTIP vesting by up to a maximum of 1.5 times for the delivery of cumulative EPS targets over three years which translate to growth of 20% per annum.
The Transformation Multiplier reflects the Boards objective of driving a fundamental transformation of business performance.
Further details of the targets for the 2016 award are set out on page 64.
Annual Bonus LTIP Maximum 150% of base salary Maximum 225% of base salary Base LTIP award Transformation Multiplier Maximum 150% of base salary Multiply Base LTIP award by up to 1.5 times Additional opportunity of up to 75% of salary PBTR 30% EPS 50% Revenue growth 30% Exceptional EPS TSR 25% Cash 20% performance 100% ROCE 25% Net Promoter Score 20% Opportunity to multiply the Base LTIP vesting by up Drive and reward the delivery of annual Market-competitive LTIP based on performance against balanced set of to 1.5 times for the delivery of exceptional EPS long-term performance against key KPIs strategically aligned KPIs performance from the transformation of the business and shareholder value metrics One-third delivered in deferred shares Three-year performance period two-year holding period Malus and clawback provisions apply to all elements of variable remuneration www.
com Electrocomponents plc 51 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans statement Under this LTIP framework, when taking into account the maximum application of the Transformation Multiplier, the CEO and Group Finance Director could receive maximum LTIP awards of 225% and 187.5% of salary, respectively.
The Committee recognises that this represents an increase in award sizes compared to the previous framework, but considers that the award sizes are appropriate in the context of the exceptional performance which would be required.
For the 2016 awards, maximum vesting would require average ROCE of 23%, upper-quartile TSR, and aggregate EPS of 55p or more over the initial three-year performance period.
Over subsequent performance periods the EPS and ROCE targets will be set to maintain the same level of stretch.
Together with lower base salaries and the reduction of pension provision for the current Executive Directors, this increase in award size rebalances the Executive Directors total remuneration packages in favour of longer-term variable incentives.
To further align incentives with our PIP, as a reflection of the importance of our customer and supplier experience, we have introduced Net Promoter Score as an additional performance measure in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Other key decisions made by the Committee during the year are as follows: As part of its review of remuneration policy, the Committee agreed to limit pension contributions or cash supplements in lieu to 20% of base salary, representing a significant reduction from previous levels.
Simon Boddies termination arrangements were determined by the Committee in line with the policy for loss of office.
Further details are shown on page 69 of this Report.
David Egans terms of engagement were determined by the Committee in line with our recruitment policy.
Details of his remuneration package for the year ending 31 March 2017 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 63 and 64.
He did not receive any other remuneration in respect of his appointment.
Following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee introduced clawback arrangements so that the overall incentive framework now has malus and clawback provisions for all elements of variable remuneration.
The Committee has increased the LTIP post-vesting holding period from one to two years for awards made in 2016 onwards.
For the year ahead, the Committee agreed a base salary increase of 2.7% to 565,000 per annum for Lindsley Ruth, in line with the average salary increase across the UK.
David Egans salary will remain at 385,000 per annum.
Performance pay outcomes in respect of the year As explained in detail on pages 1 to 3 of the Annual Report, the year ended 31 March 2016 was a year of transition for the business.
The Committee assessed performance in the year against the targets and determined that 23.8% of the maximum annual bonus should pay out.
One third of the bonus amount will be delivered in the form of shares.
Annual bonus targets are disclosed in full on page 66.
The 2013 LTIP has not met its threshold performance condition and will therefore not vest.
Shareholder engagement during the year I would like to thank shareholders for their support for our Annual Report on Remuneration last year, which received over 99% support see the voting table on page 63.
As mentioned above, we have consulted extensively with our major shareholders during this years review.
I appreciated hearing the views from 10 of our major shareholders, representing some 70% of our shareholding.
I am confident this final proposal is consistent with what we heard in consultation and I hope that we can continue to count on your support at the 2016 AGM.
John Pattullo Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 May 2016 52 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Directors Remuneration Report Governance Directors remuneration policy This section of the Report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, determined by the Companys Remuneration Committee Committee.
The policy will be effective following shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 20 July 2016.
The main changes from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM are as follows: Reduction in the maximum pension provision to 20% of salary Introduction of a temporary Transformation Multiplier element of the LTIP Extension of the LTIP post vesting holding period to two years Further discussion of these changes can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 50 to 52 Executive Director remuneration policy table Component: Base salary Objective To provide a broadly market-competitive level of fixed pay.
Operation Generally reviewed each year, with increases normally effective from 1 June.
Salaries are set by the Committee to reflect factors which include the scale and complexity of the Group, the scope and responsibilities of the role, the skills and experience of the individual, and the Committees assessment of the competitive environment including consideration of appropriate market data for companies of broadly similar size, sector and international scope to Electrocomponents.
Opportunity There is no prescribed maximum salary.
Salaries effective at the end of the year under review and changes occurring in the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome of the annual review.
Factors that are considered include: increases for other employees, changes in role and responsibilities, market levels, and individual and Company performance.
Salary increases will not normally be materially different to those given to other senior managers in the Group.
Component: Pension Objective To provide a level of retirement benefit that is competitive in the relevant market.
Operation Directors may participate in the Defined Contribution section of the Electrocomponents Group Pension Scheme Scheme, or receive a cash supplement in lieu.
The Defined Benefit section of the Scheme is closed to new entrants.
Opportunity A maximum contribution or cash supplement of 20% of base salary.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
com Electrocomponents plc 53 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy Component: Benefits Objective Provision of benefits in line with the relevant market.
Operation Executive Directors are provided with a company car or a cash allowance in lieu thereof, mobile phone, fuel allowance and medical insurance.
Other benefits may be provided or introduced from time to time to ensure the benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects the circumstances of the individual Director.
Opportunity Executive Directors do not normally receive total taxable benefits exceeding 10% of salary and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will exceed this level in the financial years over which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost where appropriate for example, relocation expenses or expatriation allowance or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially for example, market increases in insurance costs.
Component: Annual bonus To focus Executive Directors on achieving demanding annual targets relating to Company performance.
Objective Performance targets are set at the start of the financial year taking into account the annual budget agreed Operation by the Board.
After the end of the financial year, the Committee determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
A proportion of the total bonus payment currently one-third is delivered in the form of deferred shares in the Company under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
These shares normally vest after a period of two years, subject to continued employment.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on shares which vest.
The remainder is paid in cash after the year end.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to all elements of the annual bonus see notes to this table.
Maximum opportunity: Opportunity 150% of base salary.
Payment is determined by reference to performance, assessed over one financial year based on financial Performance measures and strategic performance measures which the Committee considers to be aligned to the annual strategy and the creation of shareholder value.
Such measures may include: Sales growth Profit before tax and reorganisation costs PBTR Cash flow Net Promoter Score The weightings of these performance measures are agreed by the Committee at the start of each year, according to annual business priorities.
The overall framework will normally be weighted towards financial measures of performance.
The Committee retains discretion to use different or additional measures and weightings to ensure that the bonus framework appropriately supports the business strategy and objectives for the relevant year.
Before any bonus may pay out, a threshold level of PBTR must be achieved.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus outcomes including down to zero to ensure alignment of pay with performance and fairness to shareholders and participants.
The Committee also has the discretion to adjust targets for any exceptional events that may occur during the year.
Any such discretion will be within the limits of the scheme, and will be fully disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
For threshold performance, the bonus payout will normally be nil, but in no circumstances will it exceed 10% of the maximum opportunity.
For target performance, the bonus payout will typically be 50% of the maximum opportunity.
54 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Component: LTIP Objective To incentivise Executive Directors to deliver long-term performance by aligning their performance with shareholders interests, and to reflect best practice.
The Transformation Multiplier described below is a temporary feature applying to awards made in the financial years ending in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
It is designed to drive and reward the delivery of the PIP, in order to achieve genuinely transformational performance and value for shareholders.
A conditional award of shares Award may be made annually under the Companys Long Term Incentive Operation Plan LTIP, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM in 2016.
The LTIP Award is composed of two elements: The Base LTIP award is the primary element and represents an award of shares which vests based on performance over the performance period.
The Transformation Multiplier provides an ability to earn an additional reward by multiplying the outcome under the Base LTIP by up to 1.5 times for the delivery of an exceptional EPS performance target set in excess of target ranges under the Base LTIP.
The Transformation Multiplier is a temporary feature to supplement the Base LTIP.
LTIP awards made in July 2018 will be the last awards to contain this feature.
Awards vest after a performance period of at least three years subject to the satisfaction of the performance measures and to continued employment with the Group.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on any shares vesting.
There will be a further holding period of two years following vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply see notes to this table.
The maximum annual award size under the Base LTIP: 150% of base salary, which can increase to up to Opportunity 225% of base salary for achievement of the maximum award under the Transformation Multiplier of 1.5 times the Base LTIP.
Performance measures Vesting is determined by reference to performance assessed over a period of at least three years, based on performance measures which the Committee considers to be aligned with the delivery of strategy and longterm shareholder value.
The performance measures are: Base LTIP: Headline Earnings Per Share EPS 50% Headline Return On Capital Employed ROCE 25% Comparative total shareholder return TSR 25% Transformation Multiplier: EPS 100% These measures and their weightings will be fixed for the life of this policy.
Targets for the 2016 awards are set out on page 64.
The following binding commitments and safeguards are made around the performance targets for future awards during the life of this policy: The EPS and ROCE targets will be set to maintain the same level of stretch as for the 2016 award.
The EPS performance target for the Transformation Multiplier will always be set to maintain a clear distance above the top end of the Base LTIP range.
Prior to any target being decreased, the Committee would consult with major shareholders to provide the rationale and seek feedback.
Additionally, for the award to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic LTIP outcomes to ensure the outcome is aligned with value creation for shareholders and that it is a fair reflection of the Companys performance.
The Committee also has discretion to adjust targets for any exceptional events that may occur during the performance period.
The level of vesting for threshold performance will be 25% of the maximum Base LTIP award 16.67% of the overall maximum including the Transformation Multiplier.
com Electrocomponents plc 55 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy Component: Save As You Earn SAYE Objective To encourage the ownership of Electrocomponents plc shares Operation An HMRC approved scheme where employees including Executive Directors may save an agreed amount up to the individual monthly limit set by HMRC from time to time over three or five years.
Options are normally granted at a discount of up to 20%.
Opportunity Savings are capped at an agreed amount up to the individual monthly limit set by HMRC from time to time.
Component: Share ownership Objective To align Executive Director and shareholder interests and reinforce long-term decision making Operation Executive Directors are expected to retain at least 50% of any share awards that vest net of tax in order to help build up the following required personal holdings of Electrocomponents plc shares: CEO: 200% of salary Group Finance Director: 100% of salary Opportunity Not applicable.
Notes to the policy table The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments, and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretion available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before 24 July 2014 the date the Companys first Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Malus and clawback provisions All elements of the annual bonus and the LTIP are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
In the event of misconduct of the participant or their team or materially adverse misstatement of the Companys financial statements, the Committee has discretion to apply the following malus and clawback provisions in respect of the annual bonus including DSBP and the LTIP.
The Committee may: Require a participant to return a cash bonus at any time up to the second anniversary of payment Reduce including down to zero a DSBP award prior to vesting Reduce including down to zero an LTIP award prior to vesting and or require, at any time prior to the end of the holding period, a participant to return part or all of the value of the LTIP award received Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The annual bonus performance measures are selected each year to reflect the financial and strategic performance measures which the Committee considers to be aligned with the delivery of the Performance Improvement Plan PIP and which directly reinforce the medium-term performance framework.
The LTIP performance measures were selected to provide a balance between external and internal measures of performance, reflect their long-term strategic KPIs, as well as measure absolute and relative performance.
TSR aligns performance with shareholders interests.
EPS is a measure of the growth and profitability of the Company that also reflects management performance, and is a measure used by investors in deciding whether to invest in the Company.
ROCE reflects the efficiency of profit generation and balance sheet management.
56 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points.
Bonus targets are set by reference to the annual budget agreed by the Board.
LTIP targets reflect industry context, expectations of what will constitute appropriately challenging performance levels, and factors specific to the Company.
Targets for the Transformation Multiplier element of the LTIP reflect exceptional levels of performance from the delivery of strategic objectives which transform long-term financial performance, and must be set in excess of the upper end of equivalent performance ranges under the Base LTIP.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, performance conditions applicable to Awards may be adjusted if an event occurs or circumstances arise which cause the Committee to determine that the performance conditions have ceased to be appropriate.
In such circumstances, the Committee may make such adjustments to the calculations as it deems necessary in order to ensure that the performance conditions suitably measure performance in a manner which is consistent with the objectives of the targets.
Differences from remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles as described above.
Annual salary reviews across the Group take into account Company performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All executives and senior managers are eligible to participate in annual bonus schemes.
Opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Other members of the Executive Management Team EMT participate in the DSBP and LTIP on similar terms as the Executive Directors, although award sizes may vary.
Awards made under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions and vest after three years subject to continued employment.
Below this level, senior managers may be invited to participate in the LTIP.
All UK-based employees are eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC approved savings-related share scheme on identical terms.
The majority of employees based outside the UK are eligible to participate in a cash-based alternative on similar terms.
Performance scenario charts The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the Executive Directors, and the potential mix between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-Target and Maximum.
com Electrocomponents plc 57 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy The Minimum scenario reflects fixed remuneration of base salary, pension 20% of salary, and benefits excluding any one-off amounts.
The On-Target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target bonus payout 75% of salary and Base LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of the maximum award level.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout under all incentives 150% of salary under the annual bonus, and 225% and 187.5% of salary under the LTIP including the Transformational Multiplier for the CEO and Group Finance Director, respectively.
The value of the LTIP assumes no increase in the underlying value of the shares.
For simplicity, any entitlement to dividend equivalents is not included.
Approach to Executive Director recruitment remuneration External appointment In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Committee may make use of all components of remuneration set out in the Executive Director remuneration policy table on pages 53 to 56 of this report, subject to the limits contained in that table.
In determining the appropriate remuneration structure and level for the appointee, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of shareholders.
The Committee may also need to make an award of shares or cash payment in respect of a new appointment to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, over and above the approach and award limits outlined in the policy table, availing itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
In determining an appropriate structure for any buyout awards, the Committee will consider all relevant factors including the form and time horizon of the forfeited remuneration, any performance conditions attached to the awards being bought out, and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
Any such buy out will have a fair value which, in the view of the Committee, is no greater than the fair value of the awards forfeited.
Internal promotion to the Board In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company may choose to continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Executive Director remuneration policy at the time of promotion.
Service contracts and policy for payment for loss of office Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
Both Executive Directors have service agreements that operate on a 12-month rolling basis.
In line with the Committees policy, these service agreements provide for 12 months notice by the Company and by the Executive Directors.
The Company entered into service agreements with Lindsley Ruth on 26 February 2015 and with David Egan on 11 December 2015.
The Committees policy for Directors termination payments is to provide only what would normally be due to Directors had they remained in employment in respect of the relevant notice period, and not to go beyond their normal contractual entitlements.
Any incentive arrangements will be dealt with subject to the relevant rules, with any discretion exercised by the Committee on a case-by-case basis taking into account the circumstances of the termination.
Termination payments will also take into account any statutory entitlement at the appropriate level, to be considered by the Committee on the same basis.
When the Committee believes that it is essential to protect the Companys interests, additional arrangements may be entered into for example, post-termination protections above and beyond those in the contract of employment on appropriate terms.
The Committee may also agree to pay legal fees and outplacement costs on behalf of the Directors.
Both Executive Directors service agreements provide for base salary in lieu of notice.
The Committee will monitor, and where appropriate enforce the Directors duty to mitigate loss.
58 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance The table below summarises how awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion.
Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Timing of vesting Annual bonus Termination with cause No bonus paid Not applicable Resignation No bonus is normally paid unless the After the end of the financial year Committee in its absolute discretion and on a case-by-case basis determines otherwise All other circumstances Bonuses are paid only to the extent that After the end of the financial year the associated objectives, as set at the beginning of the plan year, are met.
Any such bonus would normally be paid on a pro-rata basis, taking account of the period actually worked, normally without the DSBP element Deferred Share Termination with cause DSBP awards lapse Not applicable Bonus Plan DSBP Resignation DSBP awards normally lapse unless the At the normal vesting date unless Committee in its absolute discretion and the Committee decides that awards on a case-by-case basis determines should vest at the cessation of otherwise employment Injury, retirement with the DSBP awards are prorated to reflect the At the normal vesting date, unless agreement of the Company, proportion of the vesting period that has the Committee decides that awards redundancy or other reason elapsed on cessation of employment, should vest on the date of cessation that the Committee determines unless the Committee in its discretion of employment in its absolute discretion other decides otherwise than in cases of resignation or termination with cause Death Awards vest in full, unless the Committee As soon as possible after death in its discretion decides that awards should be time prorated Change of control Awards vest in full, unless the Committee On change of control, or, where in its discretion decides that awards awards are exchanged, up to 14 should only vest in part.
Awards may days after change of control alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate www.
com Electrocomponents plc 59 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Timing of vesting LTIP Termination with cause LTIP awards lapse Not applicable Resignation LTIP awards normally lapse, unless the If applicable, at the normal vesting Committee in its absolute discretion and date unless the Committee decides on a case-by-case basis determines that awards should vest on the otherwise date of cessation of employment, in which case the Committee may determine to what extent the performance condition has been achieved in such manner as it considers reasonable Injury, retirement with the The Committee determines whether and At the normal vesting date unless agreement of the Company, to what extent outstanding awards vest the Committee decides that redundancy or other reason based on the extent to which performance awards should vest on the date that the Committee determines conditions have been achieved normally of termination of employment, in in its absolute discretion other over the full performance period.
Awards which case the Committee may than in cases of termination with are also prorated to reflect the proportion determine to what extent the cause of the performance period worked, unless performance condition has been the Committee decides otherwise achieved in such manner as it considers reasonable Death The Committee has discretion to As soon as possible after death disapply performance conditions and waive time prorating Change of control Awards would vest to the extent that On change of control, or, where any performance conditions have been awards are exchanged, up to 14 satisfied.
Awards would also be reduced days after change of control pro rata to take into account the proportion of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to take up one non-executive position on the board of another company, subject to the prior approval of the Board.
The Executive Director may retain any fees payable in relation to such an appointment.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its broader employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Committee is mindful of the increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering salaries for Executive Directors, but does not currently consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy and framework.
60 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the AGM each year, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy.
The vast majority of shareholders continue to express support for remuneration arrangements at Electrocomponents.
The Chairman of the Committee is always available to shareholders, should they wish to discuss remuneration arrangements.
The Committee keeps the remuneration policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Groups long-term strategy and aligns Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
The Committee consulted widely with key investors and shareholder bodies and took the feedback it received into account in developing the proposed new remuneration policy.
It is the Committees intention that key shareholders will be consulted before any significant changes to remuneration policy are made and in the event that it is considering lowering any of the LTIP targets.
It is the Committees intention to consult again with shareholders in three years time, before the expiry of the proposed new policy.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment providing for an initial three-year term.
The Chairmans letter of appointment provides a six-month notice period and for the Non-Executive Directors, a threemonth notice period.
All Directors are subject to re-election annually at the AGM.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any of the Companys bonus, long-term incentive or pension plans.
Details of the policy on fees paid to the Companys Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Component: Fees Objective To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre with broad commercial experience relevant to the Group.
Operation The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors as a whole and the fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman receive a single base fee.
Additional fees may be payable for additional Board duties, such as acting as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and to the Senior Independent Director.
Fee levels are normally reviewed every two years, with any adjustments typically effective from 1 April.
Fees are reviewed by taking into account best practice and appropriate market data including fee levels at other companies of broadly similar size, sector and international scope to Electrocomponents.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors may be provided with accommodation and travel expenses in order to carry out their duties.
This may include the settlement by Electrocomponents of any associated tax liabilities in relation to these expenses.
Opportunity Aggregate ordinary fees for Directors are limited to 600,000 by the Companys Articles of Association.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review and for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
measures Approach to Non-Executive Director recruitment remuneration In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table above.
com Electrocomponents plc 61 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration The following section provides details of how our remuneration policy was implemented during the year ended 31 March 2016.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found in the corporate governance section of the Companys website.
The task of the Committee is to consider the remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and other senior employees and to ensure that they are compensated appropriately for their contributions to the Groups performance.
The Committee also considers the remuneration of the Company Chairman.
The Board as a whole considers and determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
No individual was present while decisions were made regarding their own remuneration.
During the year under review, the following independent Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee: John Pattullo Chairman Bertrand Bodson from 1 June 2015 Karen Guerra Paul Hollingworth Rupert Soames Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members are given in their biographies on pages 32 to 34.
In addition, the Company Chairman, CEO, Group Finance Director and Chief HR Officer were invited to attend Committee meetings to advise on specific questions raised by the Committee and on matters relating to the performance and remuneration of senior managers, other than in relation to their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Further details of matters discussed at Committee meetings which took place during the year is available in the corporate governance section of our website and attendance by individual Committee members at meetings is fide tailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 40.
Advisers Kepler Associates Kepler has provided independent advice to the Committee since 2001.
The Committee undertook a tender process in October, and decided to appoint Deloitte LLP to the position.
Kepler has provided excellent levels of support to the Committee, but it was decided that after such a lengthy relationship, an alternative provider would be better placed to advise the Committee on aligning remuneration with the Performance Improvement Plan PIP announced in November.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consultancy in the UK details of which can be found at www.
During the first half of the year, Kepler provided support in drafting our Directors Remuneration Report Report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
During the second half of the year Deloitte have provided: Advice in relation to the design of the new Long Term and Short Term Incentive arrangements, including appropriate performance targets and measures, and consequent changes to remuneration policy Advice regarding the recruitment arrangements and remuneration package for the new Group Finance Director Support in drafting the Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 Kepler provides no other services to the Company or its Directors and the Committee considers it to be independent.
Deloitte provides advice to the Company regarding globally mobile employees, but the Committee does not consider that this jeopardises the independence of Deloitte, which operates in line with the Code described above.
Keplers total fees for the provision of remuneration services to the Committee during the year were 5,000 2015: 27,000 for the full year.
Deloittes fees for the provision of services to the Committee during the year were 44,000.
62 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Summary of shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM Summarised below are the results at the 2015 AGM of the vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration: Vote on Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 384,475,816 99.8% Against 812,749 0.2% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 385,288,565 100% Votes withheld 54,306 385,342,871 Total votes including withheld votes The Committee welcomes the support received from shareholders at the 2015 AGM for remuneration at Electrocomponents.
Implementation of Executive Director remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2017 Base salary Base salaries for the Executive Directors effective from 1 June 2016 with the prior year comparator and the change are shown below: Salary Salary effective effective 1 June 1 June 2016 2015 Change Lindsley Ruth 564,850 550,000 2.7% 1 David Egan 385,000 385,000 0% 1.
Salary effective on appointment 1 March 2016 A salary increase averaging 2.5% across the Group was awarded at the annual pay review, effective 1 June 2016.
Pension For the forthcoming year, the Executive Directors will receive a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary.
Performance-related annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors will remain unchanged at 150% of base salary for the forthcoming financial year.
The bonus outcome for Executive Directors will be based on the following performance measures: Performance measure Weighting Group PBTR 30% Group sales growth 30% Group cash flow 20% Net Promoter Score 20% One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for a further two years under the DSBP.
Annual bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance, but, to the extent the Directors consider them to no longer be sensitive, are disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
com Electrocomponents plc 63 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration LTIP Lindsley Ruth and David Egan will receive awards under the new LTIP framework with a face value of 150% and 125% of base salary 225% and 187.5% including the maximum Transformation Multiplier of 1.5 times the Base LTIP vesting respectively, subject to shareholder approval of the new remuneration policy and the revised LTIP at the forthcoming AGM.
Vesting of these awards will be determined in accordance with the following performance targets measured over the three years to 31 March 2019: Base LTIP targets Multiplier targets Threshold Maximum Threshold Maximum 25% of 100% of 1x Base 1.5x Base Measure Weight Base Base Measure vesting vesting EPS cumulative 50% 44p 50p FY17, FY18, FY19 The vesting outcome TSR vs Industrial 25% Median Upper under the Base LTIP EPS 52p 55p Electronic peer Quartile is multiplied by up to cumulative 1 group 1.5 times based on FY17, FY18, performance against FY19 the Multiplier EPS ROCE average 25% 17% 23% targets.
over FY17, FY18, FY19 Straight-line vesting between points Base LTIP and Multiplier 1.
Comprises Acal, Bodycote, Brammer, DCC, Dialight, Diploma, E2V Technologies, Essentra, Fenner, Goodwin, Graft Group, Halma, Hill & Smith, Howden Joinery, IMI, Melrose Industries, Morgan Advanced Materials, Oxford Instruments, Porvair, Premier Farnell, Renishaw, Renold, Rotork, Severfield, SIG, Spectris, Spirax-Sarco, Travis Perkins, Trifast, TT Electronics, Vitec, Weir, Wolseley, Xaar, and XP Power.
Following vesting, the 2016 awards will be subject to a two-year holding period increased from one year for last years awards.
SAYE Executive Directors will be able to participate in any SAYE contract offered to all employees, on identical terms.
Implementation of Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2017 For the financial year ending 31 March 2017, the Chairmans fee has increased to 190,000 an increase of 5.5% to reflect his seniority and contribution to the business, and to bring his pay in line with the market.
The Senior Independent Directors fee has been increased from 5,000 to 7,500 above the basic 50,000 Non-Executive Director fee, in line with the market.
There were no other fee increases.
64 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Single figure for total remuneration for Executive Directors audited The following table provides a single figure for total remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2016 and the prior year.
The value of the annual bonus includes the element of bonus deferred under the DSBP, where relevant.
Simon Boddie ceased to be a director of the Company on 30 September 2015 and the figures below are for remuneration paid to him in respect of his employment.
David Egan was appointed as a director on 1 March 2016.
Taxable benefits consist of medical insurance, company car or allowance, and personal fuel allowance.
For Lindsley Ruth, this figure also includes a one off relocation allowance of 107,690 55,000 net of income tax and national insurance contributions paid to him in respect of his move from the USA.
Ongoing taxable benefits amounted to 21,419 for the year.
Annual bonus comprises both the cash annual bonus for performance during the year and the face value of the deferred share element on the date of deferral, where relevant.
Simon Boddie did not receive the deferred share element of the bonus for the year under review.
The deferred share element one-third of the figure shown in the table above for Lindsley Ruth and David Egan is deferred for two years.
See Annual bonus in respect of performance for the year ended 31 March 2016 on pages 66 and 67 for further details.
For Simon Boddie in the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016, the LTIP value shows the value of LTIP awards made in July 2012 and 2013 respectively.
For both years all the LTIP awards lapsed based on performance.
Neither Lindsley Ruth nor David Egan held LTIP awards made in these years.
Each of the Directors received the amounts shown above 20% of base salary for Lindsley Ruth and David Egan, 43.5% of base salary for Simon Boddie as a cash supplement in lieu of pension.
Other includes options granted under the all-employee SAYE scheme during the year.
On 24 June 2015 Lindsley Ruth was granted 15,706 SAYE options: the value of SAYE options is 7,500, the embedded gain at grant i. e the 20% discount of the share price used at grant, multiplied by the number of options granted.
For Lindsley, this figure also includes the value of his Recruitment Award, further details of which are given on page 68 of this report.
This is based on the average of the closing middle market quotations of the shares for the 30 calendar days before the announcement of Lindsleys recruitment made on 27 February 2015 209.9p multiplied by the number of shares awarded.
There are no performance conditions, as there were no performance conditions attaching to the forfeited arrangements.
The Award will vest subject, in normal circumstances, to continued service and to the Committee being satisfied that the remuneration arrangements being replaced have been forfeited.
Simon Boddie ceased to be a Director on 30 September 2015 and the pay included above relates to the six months during which he served as a Director.
com Electrocomponents plc 65 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Single figure for total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited For the year under review, the Chairmans fee was 180,000 per annum.
Paul Hollingworth, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and John Pattullo, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, each received an additional fee of 10,000 per annum.
Rupert Soames received an additional fee of 5,000 per annum for his ongoing responsibilities as Senior Independent Director.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2016 and the prior year: Total fee 2016 2015 Peter Johnson 180,000 180,000 1 Bertrand Bodson 41,667 Karen Guerra 50,000 50,000 Paul Hollingworth 60,000 60,000 John Pattullo 60,000 56,667 Rupert Soames 55,000 56,667 1.
Bertrand Bodson was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2015.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2016 Annual bonus in respect of performance for the year ended 31 March 2016 audited The performance measures attached to the 2016 annual bonus plan were sales growth weighted 40%, PBTR 40% and cash flow 20%.
Target performance was calibrated to deliver a bonus of 75% of salary for the Executive Directors, with bonus payments worth up to 150% of salary for achieving stretch performance targets.
Based on the Groups performance in the year ended 31 March 2016, against targets set at the start of the year for each performance measure, the Committee confirmed a bonus outcome of 23.8% of maximum for each of the Executive Directors.
Further details, including the targets set and performance against each of the metrics, are provided below: Earned bonus Payout Actual Performance % of Target performance Measure and weighting level max.
bonus % of max Sales growth 40% weighting Threshold 0% 2.2% 2.8% 3.8% Maximum 40% 7.6% PBTR 40% weighting Threshold 0% 76.8m 76.8m 0.0% Maximum 40% 94.9m Cash flow 20% weighting Threshold 0% 47.4m 62.6m 20.0% Maximum 20% 62.4m Total 23.8% One-third of the annual bonus award is normally deferred into shares under the DSBP which vest on the second anniversary of grant subject, normally, to continued employment.
In the year under review, no DSBP element of bonus was awarded to Simon Boddie.
66 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance The table below sets out the actual bonuses paid in cash and, where applicable, deferred shares for Lindsley Ruth, David Egan and Simon Boddie for the year under review: Maximum bonus Actual bonus % of Salary Cash DSBP Total Cash Shares Total Lindsley Ruth 100 50 150 130,955 65,478 196,433 1 David Egan 8 4 12 7,639 3,820 11,459 2 Simon Boddie 50 50 47,683 47,683 1 David Egans bonus has been prorated to reflect the one month he served as a director during the year.
This is reflected in the maximum and actual bonus figures set out above.
2 Simon Boddies bonus has been prorated to reflect the six months he served as a Director during the year.
Under the terms on which he left the Company he will not receive the DSBP element of the bonus.
The deferred shares have not been awarded at the date of this Report.
The number of deferred shares awarded, the date of award and the share price used will be disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
2013 LTIP awards vesting In July 2013, LTIP awards of shares were granted to Simon Boddie and the Committee has used its discretion to permit him to retain his LTIP awards.
Any shares vesting would have been subject to prorating to the date he ceased employment with the Company.
Vesting of these awards was based 50% on Electrocomponents EPS growth and 50% on Electrocomponents relative TSR outperformance of the FTSE 250 index over the three financial years ended 31 March 2016.
Based on performance over this period, the Committee has determined that none of this award will vest.
Performance targets, and actual performance against these, is summarised in the table below: Electrocomponents Award vesting performance % of LTIP award TSR % outperformance of FTSE 250 index Threshold: Index TSR Index 21.3% 0% Maximum: Index 20% Annualised three-year EPS growth Threshold: 5% per annum 3.9% per annum 0% Maximum: 10% per annum TOTAL 0% Scheme interests awarded during the year ended 31 March 2016 audited DSBP During the year under review, the following DSBP awards were made to the Executive Directors relating to the annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ended 31 March 2015 : Simon Boddie Basis of award One-third of earned bonus Number of shares awarded 15,547 1 33,333 Award date face value 214.4p per share Performance conditions None 1.
The awards were made using the average of the closing middle market quotations of the shares for the three dealing days immediately preceding 6 July 2015, the date the shares were awarded.
com Electrocomponents plc 67 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration LTIP During the year under review, the following LTIP awards were made to the Executive Directors: Lindsley Ruth 150% of base salary Basis of award Number of shares awarded 384,735 Award-date face value 214.4p per 824,872 1 share Performance period 1 April 2015 31 March 2018 Three-year EPS growth 50% of an award Threshold: 5% p. a.
0% of element vesting Maximum: 10% p. a.
100% of element vesting Three-year relative TSR % outperformance of FTSE 250 Index 50% of an award Threshold: Index TSR 0% of element vesting Performance conditions Maximum: Index 20% 100% of element vesting Threshold vesting outcome 0% Post-vesting holding period Twelve months 1.
SAYE During the year under review, the following SAYE awards were granted to the Executive Directors: Lindsley Ruth Basis of award Fixed savings contract Number of options granted 15,706 1 Share price used for grant 238.7p Exercise price 191p 20% discount to grant price Performance conditions None n a Threshold vesting outcome 1.
The share price used for grant was the average of the closing middle market quotations of the shares for 26, 27 and 28 May 2015.
Recruitment award Lindsley Ruth Basis of award Value of remuneration forfeited upon leaving previous employment Number of shares awarded 513,784 Award-date face value 209.9p per 1,078,433 1 share Subject to continued service with the Company and the Board being satisfied that the remuneration Conditions arrangements being replaced have been forfeited.
The share price used to determine the number of shares awarded was 209.9p being the average of the closing middle market quotations of the shares for the 30 calendar days before the announcement on 27 February 2015 of Lindsleys recruitment.
68 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Total pension entitlements audited During the year under review, Simon Boddie was able to participate in the defined benefit section of the Electrocomponents Group Pension Scheme Scheme.
However, as his pension benefit is greater than or equal to the lifetime allowance, he elected to opt out of the Scheme with effect from 5 April 2012 and receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension no greater than the cost of pension benefits previously provided.
The single cash supplement, which replaced all historic cash supplements and pension benefits, was paid until the date his employment with the Company terminated.
The Committee recognises that the level of pension contribution was above market norms for FTSE 250 companies of similar size.
However, this level of cash supplement reflects legacy-defined benefit arrangements from which Simon Boddie had opted out.
The accrued defined benefit pension for Simon Boddie at 31 March 2016 was 29,609 per annum, including revaluation from the date he opted out of the Scheme.
This pension is payable from age 60 his normal retirement age under the Scheme.
Having left service before age 60, Simon Boddie may elect to start receiving his pension at any time between age 55 and age 60, in which case the pension will be actuarially reduced to reflect the longer period for which it is expected to be paid.
Lindsley Ruth and David Egan are able to participate in the Defined Contribution section of the Scheme.
Both have chosen to take this as a cash allowance of 20% of base salary instead, the value of which is captured in the Single figure for total remuneration table on page 65.
Payments to past Directors audited Other than as described below, in the Single figure for total remuneration table on page 65, and as set out in last years Directors Remuneration Report, there were no payments to past directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office audited On 30 September 2015, Simon Boddie ceased to be an employee and Director of Electrocomponents plc.
Simon Boddie is receiving the following payments, which are in line with the provisions of his service contract and with the Companys remuneration policy.
These payments were agreed on the basis that he remained fully committed to the Company, in accordance with certain agreed criteria, until he left on 30 September 2015.
Simon Boddie is being paid a years base salary 400,527, in twelve monthly instalments which commenced on October 2015, subject to mitigation provisions provided for in his contract.
There is no payment of contractual benefits.
Subject to the achievement of relevant performance objectives, a cash bonus payment will be made for the year ended 31 March 2016, prorated to reflect his employment for only half of the financial year.
Details of this payment are given on page 67.
No award will be made in respect of the DSBP element of bonus for 2016.
The Company has paid 40,000 for outplacement services provided to Simon Boddie, together with an amount of 4,125 for legal services.
Both these payments were made in the year under review directly by the Company to the supplier.
These payments were agreed consistent with remuneration policy in consideration for Simon Boddie agreeing to post-termination protections above and beyond those in his service agreement.
The Committee has exercised its discretion, in accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DSBP and the Companys remuneration policy, to permit Simon Boddie to retain his outstanding LTIP and DSBP share awards.
These will vest in accordance with the usual leaver provisions of the plans that is, at the normal vesting date, subject to prorating to the date he ceased employment with the Company and, in the case of the LTIP awards, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions attached to each award.
Simon Boddie will receive 26,905 shares in July 2016 and 1,938 shares in July 2017 under the DSBP.
Under the LTIP he will receive a maximum of 58,381 shares in July 2017, subject to performance conditions.
These amounts will be less, in all cases, any shares sold to cover tax.
He remained eligible for a proportion of the 2013 LTIP award but as described on page 67 this award has lapsed in full based on performance.
External appointments in the year During the financial year, David Egan was a Non-Executive Director of Tribal Group plc and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
The fee payable for this appointment is 45,900 per annum.
David is permitted to retain the fees relating to this appointment.
com Electrocomponents plc 69 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Percentage change in remuneration for the CEO The table below shows the percentage change in the annual cash remuneration of the CEO comprising base salary, the value of taxable benefits and earned annual bonus, as disclosed in the Single figure of remuneration table on page 65 from the prior year compared with the average percentage change for the members of our global management team.
This group is considered more representative of the geographical footprint of the Company than a UK comparator group, and similarity of remuneration structures facilitates a more meaningful comparison than considering all employees as a whole.
To ensure a consistent like-for-like comparison, only those employed and eligible over both periods 211 managers have been included in this calculation.
The CEO remuneration figures for the year under review were for Lindsley Ruth, and for the previous year, Ian Mason.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 Ian Mason received no Deferred Shares as part of his bonus, under the terms on which he left the business.
Taxable benefits for the year for Lindsley Ruth included a one-off relocation allowance of 107,690.
The underlying increase in ongoing annual taxable benefits excluding this relocation allowance was 14.0%, giving a revised total increase in annual cash remuneration of 8.7% 3.
The difference in percentage change in the CEOs annual bonus and total cash remuneration compared with that of other senior employees reflects differences in annual bonus design: the annual bonus for the CEO is based 100% on financial performance, whereas for the global management team it comprises an element based on personal performance and contribution.
Relative importance of spend on pay The graphs below show Electrocomponents shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and expenditure on total employee pay for the year under review and the prior year, and the percentage change year on year.
Dividend million Total employee pay expenditure million 0% 5.5% 2016 2016 244.6 51.6 2016 2016 244.6 51.6 51.6 2015 51.6 2015 236.4 2015 2015 236.4 The total employee pay expenditure figures above include labour exit costs set out in Note 6 on page 93.
70 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Performance graph and table The following graph shows the seven-year TSR performance of the Company relative to the FTSE All Share and the FTSE 250 Indices.
The FTSE All Share is a broad equity market index of which Electrocomponents is a member, and the Company is measuring its TSR performance versus the FTSE 250 for the purposes of the LTIP and has therefore included this as a relevant index.
The table below details the CEOs single figure of remuneration over the same period.
Total shareholder return TSR Value of 100 invested on 31 March 2009 Electrocomponents TSR 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2016 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Electrocomponents FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended CEO single figure of 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March remuneration 000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Lindsley Ian Mason Ian Mason Ian Mason Ian Mason Ian Mason Ian Mason Ruth 1 CEO total remuneration 1,472 1,862 1,176 1,223 1,287 891 2,072 Annual bonus award as a % of maximum opportunity 74.1% 100.0% 28.2% 3.7% 89.1% 16.9% 23.8% LTIP vesting as a % of maximum opportunity 21.4% 50.0% 20.5% 55.5% 0% 0% N A 1.
CEO total remuneration for year ended 31 March 2016 includes a one off relocation payment 107,690 and a one-off Recruitment Award 1,078,433 as detailed in the notes to the Single figure for total remuneration table on page 65. www.
com Electrocomponents plc 71 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Total shareholder return Value of 100 invested on 31 March 2009 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Director shareholdings audited The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below, together with total share awards and share options and information on whether the Executive Directors had met their shareholding requirements at 31 March 2016.
For Simon Boddie, this information is given to 30 September 2015, the date he ceased to be a Director.
Up to the date of this Report, there have been no changes in the Directors interests.
Shares and Share Awards held Options held Recruitment LTIP DSBP SAYE Shareholding Award not unvested, unvested, unvested, but guideline Current subject to subject to not subject to not subject to Owned % base holding Guideline performance performance performance performance outright salary % salary met?
A B C D Lindsley Ruth 200% No 513,784 384,735 15,706 David Egan 70,000 100% 43% No Simon Boddie 299,412 100% 169% Yes 252,824 58,904 5,298 Bertrand Bodson 10,000 Karen Guerra 7,525 Paul Hollingworth 10,000 Peter Johnson 156,400 John Pattullo 16,344 Rupert Soames 15,024 The value of the shares used to calculate whether the shareholding guideline is met is 226.5p, being the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2016.
Details of the scheme interests contained in columns AD are provided in the tables on page 73.
72 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Directors share scheme interests audited David Egan, who was appointed on 1 March 2016, holds no share awards or share options currently.
Share awards held by Simon Boddie are as at 30 September 2015, the date he ceased to be a Director.
All outstanding awards made to the Executive Directors under the LTIP are subject to the performance conditions set out on page 68.
The normal vesting date for the LTIP is the third anniversary of grant or such earlier date as the performance conditions are determined.
The recruitment award is subject to the conditions set out on page 68.
On 29 May 2015, the Committee determined that no part of the Award made under the LTIP in July 2012 should vest as neither of the performance conditions had been satisfied.
Outstanding DSBP awards are subject to the terms set out on page 67.
On 22 June 2015, the award made under the DSBP in June 2013 vested in full.
There are no performance conditions but vesting is dependent, normally, on continuing employment with the Company.
Cash dividend entitlements of 677 were paid at vesting to Simon Boddie.
Share options Shares under option 31 March Shares 2016 under or date option Granted Exercised Lapsed ceased Date Vesting Expiration Exercise 1 April during the during the during the to be a Scheme of grant date date price 2015 year year year director Lindsley Ruth SAYE 24-Jun-15 01-Sep-20 28-Feb-21 191.00p 15,706 15,706 Total 15,706 15,706 Simon Boddie SAYE 17-Jul-13 01-Sep-16 28-Feb-17 214.00p 2,523 2,523 25-Jun-14 01-Sep-17 28-Feb-18 227.00p 2,775 2,775 Total 5,298 5,298 www.
com Electrocomponents plc 73 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
