Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors remuneration report Chairmans annual statement on remuneration LTIP The remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014 was The performance period for the 2014 LTIP awards ended in 2016. amended with shareholder support in 2015, following a Board Neither of the threshold targets under the EPS and TSR conditions refreshment process, and, consequently, the Remuneration was met and, accordingly, none of the 2014 awards will vest in Committee the Committee is not presenting a new remuneration April2017.
policy for shareholder approval at this years AGM in April.
Elementis delivered total shareholder return over the three year We welcomed Paul Waterman as CEO this time last year and period of 9 per cent, compared to 18 per cent from the FTSE RalphHewins as CFO towards the end of 2016.
Shareholders AllShare Index excluding investment trusts.
EPS for 2016 was willhave read, elsewhere in this Annual Report, about the strategy 16.8cents compared to 23.0 cents in 2013. review that Paul undertook in his first few months at Elementis which culminated in a Capital Markets Day in November 2016.
2017 policy implementation Under theleadership of Paul and Ralph, the business will be The following summarises the application of our remuneration implementing the actions required to deliver growth plans set by policy in the current year.
the Board, tocreate value for our shareholders over the medium term.
Theremuneration packages for both Paul and Ralph are in Salaries line withthe policy approved in 2015 and provide a signi cant The Committee awarded Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins a weighting on performance-related pay.
salary increase of 2.8 per cent and 2.9 per cent, respectively, witheffect from 1 January 2017, which is in line with the average The Committee will take into consideration the strategic priorities increase for the US and UK salaried workforce.
outlined by Paul and Ralph at the Capital Markets Day when reviewing the remuneration policy report this year and it is quite Bonus plan possible that changes will be made to our remuneration policy The remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2015 gives forBoard members and the leadership team.
We will consult with the Committee exibility in setting bonus plan targets financial and our major shareholders in good time and before presenting the nonfinancial, their weighting and the basis of measurement.
changes for a shareholder vote next year.
In respect of the 2017 bonus plan, the Committee has decided Variable remuneration outcome for 2016 toretain the nonfinancial component with the same weighting of Bonus plan 30per cent of the bonus opportunity.
This will be based on the As reported elsewhere in this Annual Report, trading conditions in delivery of speci c and measurable objectives that are related to 2016 presented challenges to the Group hence the Company is the Companys strategic priorities set by the Board.
In terms of reporting performance that is below the minimum target thresholds the financial metrics 70 per cent of bonus opportunity, these and no bonus subject to financial performance measures PBT willcontinue to be based on PBT and AWC, with a respective andaverage working capital AWC is payable in respect of 2016, weighting relative to total bonus opportunity of 50per cent and which make up 70 per cent of the overall bonus opportunity.
For the PBT condition, threshold, plan and stretch respect of bonus subject to nonfinancial objectives NFO, which targets are set at levels the Committee considers to be has a 30per cent weighting, I can report that these have been met appropriately stretching, after taking into account both the 2017 mostly and the percentage vesting is as follows: operating plan and external market data.
The AWC condition will also utilise a target range based on the 2017 operating plan.
Details of bonus targets and objectives will be disclosed on a retrospective Max bonus Bonus vesting opportunity as % of as % of max basis in next years report.
Director % of salary NFO met opportunity P Waterman 134.43 27.5 30 36.97 The Committee has discretion to modify the overall amount of R Hewins 37.91 30 30 11.37 bonus payable in exceptional circumstances and acting in the best interests of the Company.
The actual criteria and weighting will be B Taylorson 114.41 30 30 34.32 reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
pro-rated from 8 February 2016 from 150% pro-rated from 12 September 2016 from 125% pro-rated to 30 November 2016 from 125% LTIP Turning to the LTIP for 2017, the Committee does not plan to make The Committee and the Board are fully satis ed that the bonus any changes to the structure or operation of the plan, so the payments in 2016, which are for delivering objectives for the performance conditions will continue to be based on EPS and executive Directors set by the Board, are justi ed.
As in previous years, EPS is fide ned objectives set were related to growing the business, improving as being the fully diluted EPS after adjusting items and TSR is theoverall effectiveness of the organisation, managing change measured against constituents of the FTSE All Share index andtherisk from the transition to the new executive leadership excluding investment trusts.
EPS target setting for the 2017 andmaintaining investor con dence.
More details are given later.
awards is based on the same structure as last year and the range is unchanged average annual EPS growth of 3 per cent to 10percent which theCommittee considers to be appropriately challenging through the cycle.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 39 Directors remuneration report continued Non-executive Director fees In respect of Brian Taylorson stepping down as CFO, the Company The fee levels for all non-executive Directors Chairmans fee, served 12 months notice in accordance with Brians service basicfee and additional role fee were reviewed in December 2016 contract, which will run to 16 May 2017.
His 2014 LTIP award and the outcome, which received the full support of the Board, lapses as the performance conditions were not achieved and his wasto make the following adjustments: 2015 and 2016 awards will lapse on his leaving date.
Since ceasing to hold of ce as CFO and a Director at the end of October 2016, Chairman: 2.9 per cent increase.
Brian, who is available to the Board as required and remains undernotice, has continued to receive his basic salary, contractual Basic fee: 2.9 per cent increase.
bene ts and pension supplement.
Brian provided support to Additional role fee: 2.9 per cent increase.
Ralphon a full time basis until the end of November 2016 toensurea smooth transition.
Consequently, the Committee The additional role fee applies only to the SID and the Chairman of decidedto scale back his 2016 bonus entitlement by one month.
the Audit or Remuneration Committee.
Brianwillnot be participating in the 2017 bonus scheme or LTIP.
Brians departure from of ce will result in no cost to the Company CFO transition beyond paying contractual remuneration up until the date his Ongoing remuneration contract ceases.
Further details are included in the Annualreport As previously published on the Companys website, Ralph Hewinss on remuneration.
starting remuneration package is as follows: Summary Basic salary: 325,000 p. a.
The Committee has considered at length the structure and Bene ts: as per policy.
operation of the incentive plans, as well as the target setting, Bonus opportunity: 125 per cent of basic salary with50percent andbelieve these to be challenging and appropriate, and in the share based deferral.
past year re ected the transition to a new senior management team.
The Committee is committed to maintaining appropriate LTIP award: 175 per cent of basic salary.
andtesting targets for the calculation of performance-related pay.
Pension: salary supplement of 25 per cent of basic salary.
On behalf of the Directors, I ask our shareholders to support One of the Committees stated objectives is to rebalance the theactions the Committee has taken.
proportion of xed to variable remuneration, to provide a greater incentive to the executive Directors to deliver strong, sustainable This Directors remuneration report for 2016 was prepared by financial performance and enhanced returns to shareholders.
theCommittee and has been approved by the Board.
Thiswas re ected in both Paul Watermans and Ralph Hewinss salary levels, which were positioned below their predecessors, Signed on behalf of the Board by: andtook other factors into consideration including incentive payopportunities.
Buyout awards Andrew Christie In addition, certain buyout awards were agreed to replace Chairman, Remuneration Committee remuneration forfeited by Ralph when he left BP to join Elementis.
1 March 2017 These have also been published on our website previously and details are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Director departures David Dutro retired as CEO last year and the Committee, having taken advice from New Bridge Street NBS, mitigated the cost tothe Company by not making any payment in lieu of notice.
Instead it exercised discretion under the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to waive pro-rating for time in respect of the2014 award, which was not expected to vest.
As anticipated, the performance conditions for the 2014 LTIP awards were not metand these awards will lapse in full.
David Dutros retirement from of ce resulted in no cost to the Company beyond paying contractual remuneration xed elements only up until the date hisemployment ceased.
40 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy report Effective date and duration of remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report the Remuneration policy report, which is mostly restated for reference purposes only and updated where appropriate, sets out the remuneration policy for the Directors of the Company that was approved by shareholders atthe 2015 AGM.
The remuneration policy is effective for three years from 22 April 2015.
Where the text in this Remuneration policy report is in bold and underlined, this shows a change in implementation different from last year but within the approved policy, or an update or re-wording of the text from last year.
Policy table The information in the table below sets out the remuneration policy for the different elements that make up total remuneration applying toDirectors.
Basic salary Purpose and link to Company's strategy Targeted at a level to attract and retain the world class executives who are essential todrive the business forward and deliver the Companys strategic goals.
How it operates in practice Formal salary review normally every three years, with benchmarking analysis utilised forreference purposes against relevant market comparators, as appropriate, taking into account the size of the Company revenue and market capitalisation, complexity of the roles including changes to both size and roles and individual performance.
Annual salary increases that are broadly in line with the local workforce in percentage ofsalary terms, subject to Committee approval.
Increases beyond the average of those granted to the local workforce in percentage ofsalary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a material change in responsibility or experience of the individual, to recognise exceptional performance over a sustained period or a significant increase in the complexity, size or value of the Company.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate ofpay initially, a series of increases above those granted to the local workforce inpercentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in December and any changes are effective from 1January in the following year.
Maximum potential value There is no prescribed maximum for salary increases.
The Committee will be guided bythe general increase for the local workforce and or broader workforce as a whole, aswell as the circumstances listed above.
Salaries for 2017: CEO $848,100 CFO 334,425 Benefits Purpose and link to Companys strategy To aid retention and to remain competitive in the marketplace.
Healthcare benefits in order to minimise business disruption.
Executive Directors may also participate along with other employees in the Groups HMRC approved SAYE or other equivalent savings based share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Life assurance and private medical health insurance are provided.
Provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, in both cases having a value that is consistent and commensurate with the executives status and seniority.
Participation in all employee savings based share option schemes as above.
In addition, benefits in the US, where it is standard, include cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and club membership.
Maximum potential value SAYE savings based schemes are subject to individual limits.
These are $2,000 per month in the US and in the UK up to the HMRC prescribed limit 500 per month.
Other benefits: the Committee will determine the level of benefit as it considers appropriate, taking into consideration local market practice.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 41 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Annual bonus scheme Purpose and link to Companys strategy To incentivise the senior management team to exceed the annual operating plans approved by the Board at the start of each financial year.
To ensure that a significant proportion of an executives total remuneration is based oncorporate business financial performance that is linked to the Companys annual operating plan.
To enable incentive pay to help build and maintain meaningful executive shareholdings thereby providing greater long term focus.
How it operates in practice An annual bonus is earned based on over performance against selected performance measures which are linked to the Companys key performance indicators, or the achievement of strategic and or operational objectives.
Bonus payments are paid following the approval of full year results.
Payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
Bonus deferral element: 50 per cent of any cash bonus payable must be awarded in shares and deferred for two years.
Dividends to accrue to deferred share award holders or holders of conditional share awards.
Deferred shares or conditional awards are forfeitable for gross misconduct dismissal for cause.
The Committee may seek recovery and or withholding of bonuses paid that are later found to have been based on performance that was mis-stated or incorrectly calculated, or where the amount of any bonus may have been reduced or withheld due to reasons of gross misconduct.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply from awards made in 2015 and apply for a period of three years following payment of any bonus.
Detailed provisions are incorporated into the rules of the various schemes which govern the terms of a bonus payment and or the making of any deferred share or conditional award.
Maximum potential value CEO: 150 per cent of basic salary.
CFO: 125 per cent of basic salary.
A higher annual bonus limit of 200 per cent of basic salary may apply for new recruits.
Framework used to assess performance The performance measure s will be based mainly on financial performance although the Committee reserves the right to select other qualitative or non-financial targets including the basis of their measurement as it considers to be appropriate and which are aligned to the Companys strategic objectives for the year ahead.
The financial element of the bonus may include but are not limited to the Companys key performance indicators which include: Profit before tax or other measures of profitability.
Group average trade working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage AWC or other cash flow indicators.
Targets for financial metrics are set relative to the annual operating plan, taking into account general GDP factors, external market data, current and past performance of thebusiness, together with any organic or acquisitive growth plans.
For any profit related metric, targets will be set at threshold, plan and stretch levels and the amount payable for threshold performance shall be determined by the Committee each year when reviewing annual bonus plans and approving bonus scheme targets.
The Committee keeps performance metrics under review on an annual basis to ensure they continue to remain appropriate and has the discretion to introduce new metrics or remove existing ones and amend their relative weightings.
As a result, the performance metrics and weightings may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy during thelife of the policy.
The profit related element of annual bonus shall not be less than 50per cent of the overall bonus opportunity.
42 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Long term incentives Purpose and link to Companys strategy The LTIP is the sole long term incentive mechanism and is intended to align the interests of the executives with the Groups long term performance, business strategy and broader interests of shareholders.
When granting awards under the LTIP the Committee generally takes into consideration the need to motivate and retain the executive Directors and other participants.
The number of options conditional shares awarded, up to the maximum limit, isbasedon the average mid-market closing price of a share on the date preceding thedate of award.
How it operates in practice Nil cost options or conditional shares are awarded annually.
Options are exercisable three years from, and within ten years of, the date of award.
Share awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of award.
A post-vesting holding period of two years will apply to annual awards granted from2015.
For US participants e. g. the CEO the award of conditional shares may be structured in the form of restricted stock units in order to comply with US tax rules on deferred compensation particularly in view of the holding period being introduced.
Recovery and withholding provisions similar to those described in respect of annual bonus payments but relating to the vesting of LTIP awards will apply from 2015 awards.
Dividend rights: dividends will accrue during the three year performance period in respect of LTIP awards to the extent that they vest.
In the case of awards structured as nil cost options, dividends payable would only be paid when the options are exercised and when the employee becomes the beneficial owner of the shares.
Tax rules mean US participants will generally exercise and sell at least part of any options shares that vest on the date of vesting, in order to meet tax liabilities.
This will continue to be our practice for options shares not subject to the holding period.
Awards are subject to the achievement of challenging performance conditions and normally subject to continued service over the vesting period.
Maximum potential value CEO: 200 per cent of basic salary at the time of the award.
CFO: 175 per cent of basic salary at the time of the award.
A higher limit of 250 per cent of basic salary may apply to annual awards made tonewrecruits.
Framework used to assess performance Awards are subject to achievement of financial EPS, ROCE or any other relevant Company financial KPI and or relative TSR performance conditions measured over three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is made.
TSRwill be measured against the constituents of a broad equity index, or a bespoke group of appropriate comparator companies.
In determining the target range for any financial measures that may apply, theCommittee ensures they are challenging by taking into account current and anticipated trading conditions, the long term business plan and external market data.
For any financial performance condition, threshold vesting will start from 0 per cent and for anyrelative TSR performance condition, threshold vesting will start at 3.85 per cent.
Inboth cases this will increase on a straight line basis with 100 per cent vesting for achieving the stretch targets, which for the TSR performance condition will require at least upper quartile performance.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 43 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Pension Purpose and link to Companys strategy To aid retention and remain competitive in the marketplace.
To provide appropriate retirement benefits commensurate with local market practice, seniority of the role and tenure with the Company.
How it operates in practice Policy for new recruits is a contribution to a non-Company pension scheme and or cash in lieu.
The policy for the CEO and the CFO is set out below.
CEO An annual salary supplement of 20 per cent of basic salary and, for US employees, participation in two defined contribution schemes being: i a US 401 k Plan, which is similar to a money purchase scheme, and ii a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan the Defined Contribution plans.
The latter plan mirrors the 401 k Plan except itallows for contributions in respect of pensionable remuneration over an annual compensation limit set by the US Internal Revenue Service 2016: $265,000.
Theemployer match under these two plans includes a regular match of up to 4 per cent of total pensionable remuneration and a supplemental match of up to 4 per cent, based on age and length of service.
CFO An annual salary supplement of 25 per cent of basic salary.
Maximum potential value The policy for new executives is for a Company contribution of up to 30 per cent ofsalary.
Under the policy the maximum for the CEO is 20 per cent of his salary and up to 8percent of pensionable remuneration depending on the amount of personal contributions made into the Defined Contribution plans.
The maximum for the CFO is an annual salary supplement of 25 per cent of his basic salary.
Legacy arrangements exist for existing employees.
Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to Companys strategy To align an executives interests with those of shareholders and to encourage executives to participate and share in the long term success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the Company that is equal in value to 200 per cent of their basic annual salaries.
Shares vesting from share awards, or transferred pursuant to an exercise of any option, granted under any share incentive or employee share saving scheme may not be sold other than to meet a tax liability until the above shareholding level has been met.
The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines and can make changes to them from time to time.
Non-executive Chairman and Directors fees Purpose and link to Companys strategy To attract individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience that the Board considers necessary in order to maintain an optimal mix that ensures the effectiveness of the Board as a whole in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
How it operates in practice Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the executive Directors, having regard to fees paid to non-executive Directors in other UK quoted companies and the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
In the case of the Chairman, the fee level is determined by the Committee.
As well as taking into consideration the above factors, the Committee sets the fee at an appropriate level necessary to attract a role holder qualified to effectively lead the board of a company of a similar size and prestige as Elementis.
Fees will be reviewed annually with changes taking effect from 1 January in the followingyear.
Fees are payable in cash and non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
No individual is allowed to vote on his her own remuneration.
44 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Link between policy, strategy and structure Differences in executive remuneration policy compared The remuneration policy is principally designed to attract, motivate toother employees and retain the executive Directors and other members of the The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider leadership team to execute effectively our corporate and business Group when setting the remuneration policy for executive Directors.
strategies in order to deliver our annual operating plans and The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the sustainable year on year pro table growth, as well as to generate broader Group and, in particular the employees based in the US, and preserve value for our shareholders over the longer term, UK and Europe, when determining salary increases for the without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
and values that underpin our remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent basis for all our Group employees.
The same principles and values behind the design of remuneration for the executive Directors apply to other members of the It is our policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and by leadership team and employees throughout the rest of the Group, reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate with modi cations to re ect local market practice and the level balance between xed and variable remuneration.
ofseniority and ability to in uence Group performance.
Overall, theremuneration policy for executive Directors is more heavily The Committees policy is to adequately reward the Directors if they weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for their remuneration packages.
shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive Directors given it is the executive Directors who are considered to The remuneration structure for executive Directors is made up have the greatest potential to in uence shareholder value creation.
oftwo elements: xed remuneration consisting of basic salary, bene ts including for example non-contributory health insurance The level of variable pay varies by level of employee within the and life assurance and pension provision, and variable Group and is informed by the speci c responsibilities of each role remuneration annual bonus scheme and long term share and local market practice as appropriate.
How the views of employees are taken into account Choice of performance measures and approach The Group does not actively consult with employees on executive to target setting remuneration.
The Group has a diverse workforce operating in The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long ninedifferent countries, with various local pay practices, term incentive plans are drawn from a suite of Company KPIs whichwould make any cost effective consultation impractical.
monitored by the Board that are closely linked to the financial KPIs However, as noted above, when setting the remuneration policy on page 16. forexecutive Directors, the Committee takes into account the payand employment conditions for other employees in the Group.
In the annual bonus scheme, the financial measures currently used Thisprocess ensures that any annual increase to the basic pay include PBT and AWC.
PBT fide ned as reported Group pro t ofexecutive Directors is not out of proportion with that proposed before tax, after adjusting items is a clear measure of the for other employees.
Companys trading performance and AWC encourages the most ef cient use of working capital and ensures earnings are converted into cash.
These metrics are aligned with the Companys objectives and strategy.
Since 2016 nonfinancial criteria have formed acomponent of the performance measures in the bonus scheme and these can be based on Company speci c business objectives, such as the achievement of speci c strategic or operational goals including metrics that takeaccount of business or corporate performance in environmental, social and governance areas and typically incorporate speci c HSE related targets orobjectives.
With regards to long term performance targets, EPS growth or ROCE targets may be used and these are aligned with the long term levels of shareholder value creation and growth of the Company.
A relative TSR condition ensures that there is clear alignment between shareholders and executives.
Where appropriate, targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external data.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering performance at threshold levels or above with maximum rewards requiring outperformance of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee keeps the EPS target range under annual review, for each new award, to ensure it continues to remain appropriate.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 45 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Reward scenario analysis CEO CFO 000 000 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 42% 2,000 2,000 1,500 1,500 33% 31% 40% 1,000 1,000 24% 31% 29% 500 500 22% 100% 43% 27% 41% 41% 100% 47% 31% 0 0 Fixed On target Maximum Fixed On target Maximum Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Fixed Annual bonus LTIP The bar charts above illustrate the potential pay opportunities for executive Directors under three different scenarios for 2017.
TheCEOs remuneration has been converted into pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for 2016 $1.3649:1.00.
Fixed: Comprises xed pay being the value of salary, bene ts and pension bene ts are included at an annualised level for 2016 and for the CEO, the employers matching contributions to fide ned Contribution plans are included at the estimated level of 4.5 per cent ofsalary.
On target: The amount receivable assumes performance in which 50 per cent of annual bonus is payable and 50 per cent of long term incentive awards vest.
Maximum: the maximum amount receivable should all stretch targets be met and vesting under both the annual bonus scheme and LTIP is 100 per cent.
When valuing the LTIP awards under the On target and Maximum scenarios, these are based on face value as a percentage of salary.
The LTIPs also relate to awards to be made in 2017 rather than any awards vesting in 2017.
For example, if the level of award for the CEO is200 per cent of basic salary, then the On-target scenario assumes that 50 per cent will vest and that value is included in the chart illustration.
LTIPs exclude any dividend rights and excludes buy-out awards.
Recruitment policy For executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the policy outlined below: Element Policy Basic salary Basic salary levels will be set in accordance with the Companys remuneration policy, taking into account theexperience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity or salary levels may be set below this level e. g. if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits New Directors may be entitled to benefits such as life assurance, private medical health insurance, cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and provision of either a company car forbusiness and personal purposes or a car allowance, or any other appropriate benefit.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment for a maximum period of 12 months.
Pension A Company contribution into a pension plan and or cash supplement of up to 30 per cent of salary.
Legacy pension arrangements for promotees which may include defined benefit or US style arrangements may continue to operate on their existing terms.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate as outlined for current executive Directors but to aid recruitment where necessary the maximum bonus opportunity is 200 per cent of basic salary.
Bonus will be pro-rated for the proportion of the year served.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
46 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Element Policy Long term incentives Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive Directors on an annual basis but to aid recruitment where necessary the maximum award is 250 per cent of basic salary.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to theirterms as at the date of grant.
In addition, if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board Director for that financial year, the Committees policy would include flexibility to top upawards for that year subject to the overall individual salary limit based on the executives new salary.
Buy out awards In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash orshares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards may be granted using the Companys LTIP up to the individual limit or outside of the LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Outside board appointments The Company may pay compensation in lieu of the notice period The Companys policy is to support an executive should they wish ofhis basic salary only, to be paid in monthly instalments pro-rated to take on an external board appointment, provided that there for the actual notice period.
This would apply if the Company isnocon ict of interest and the role does not interfere with the terminates his contract for any reason other than for cause, executives commitment or duties.
If an executive does take on orifheserves notice to terminate his contract in 12 months time.
anexternal appointment they may retain any fees paid and will be restricted generally to only one such external appointment.
Any entitlement to a bonus for any part of a financial year worked including any period of notice worked prior to cessation of Service contracts employment is subject to the rules of the scheme and subject Executive Directors service contracts contain a termination notice toperformance.
No bonus is payable for any period of notice period not exceeding 12 months.
Name Date of contract Notice period The above summary only addresses contractual rights to payments in lieu of notice, or during the relevant Directors notice period, Paul Waterman, CEO 6 November 2015 12 months andmay not re ect any settlement or compromise sums which are Ralph Hewins, CFO 27 June 2016 12 months separately agreed at the point of termination.
The date of the service contract is not the same as the date of appointment which for Paul Waterman was 8 February 2016 and Committee discretion with regard to incentive plans RalphHewins 12 September 2016.
For any outstanding LTIP awards these are governed by rules of the plan and only in limited circumstances is discretion permitted.
Copies of the executive Directors service contracts are available In such circumstances, the Committee retains the use of discretion forinspection at the Companys registered of ce during normal in its administration of the LTIP as contained in the plan rules.
business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
In the speci c event of loss of of ce any discretion exercised would Policy on payment for loss of of ce depend on the circumstances at that time and the performance For the executive Directors, the terms covering termination were achieved during the performance period.
In the event of the death agreed at the date their contracts were made and both are required of an executive Director and an award has not yet vested the to mitigate their loss in the event of loss of of ce by making efforts Committee, acting in its absolute discretion, may determine vesting to secure a new position.
Payments in lieu of notice to both the from maturity rather than date of death.
If an executive Director CEO and CFO may be reduced or ceased if either secures a ceases employment due to injury, ill health, disability, redundancy newposition.
In both cases, the payments will only be ceased within the meaning of UK legislation or its overseas equivalent, ifthesalary in a new position is equal to or more than the transfer out of the Group sale of business or retirement with salary ontermination: if not the monthly payments will be employers consent a Good Leaver event and an award has reduced by thegross salary earned by the CEO or CFO in his notyet vested the Committee, acting in its absolute discretion, new position each month.
mayallow early vesting at the date of cessation rather than at date of vesting.
All such awards would still be subject to performance It is the Companys policy to follow current market practice and conditions, which the Committee may not waive, as well as preclude the inclusion of any payment bene ts, bonus or pension pro-rating for time which the Committee, acting fairly and other than basic salary in the calculation of termination payments reasonably, may waive in part or in full if it considers acting fairly and a notice period of 12 months.
Payments will be phased on a and reasonably it is appropriate to do so.
monthly basis over the remaining notice period.
Similar provisions apply in the event of a change of control, with Termination payments performance measured up to the date of the relevant event and CEO and CFO normally scaling back pro-rated for time.
The maximum amount payable under both the CEOs and CFOs contract is basic salary, bene ts and pension for 12 months while each serves his notice period.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 47 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report Non-executive Directors terms of appointment Non-executive Directors are appointed for a three year term, continued subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
For non-executive Directors who have served for nine years or more, they may be It is the Committees policy to exercise these discretions in a way appointed for a further year at a time.
Each letter of appointment that would be in the best interests of the Company and depending provides that the Directors appointment can be terminated by on the individual circumstances of each case.
theCompany on six months notice on any grounds without claim for compensation.
The Company operates an annual cash bonus scheme in which participation and payments are made subject to the discretion Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any ofthe Committee.
It is the Committees policy to exercise any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
No individual is discretion in the Companys best interests and depending on the allowed to vote on his her own remuneration.
individual circumstances of each case.
The table below provides further details of the letters of Following the introduction of bonus deferral requirements, the rules appointment that the non-executive Directors held with the of the annual bonus scheme have been amended to incorporate Company during 2016. the deferral requirement as well as recovery and withholding provisions as summarised in the remuneration policy table.
Date of Date of last Date of Therules will include discretion for the Committee, acting fairly Name appointment re-appointment expiry andreasonably, to waive deferral on the occurrence of a Good Non-executive Directors Leaver event.
A Duff 01 04 14 N A 25 04 17 A Christie 11 08 08 11 08 14 10 08 17 Under the amended rules of the LTIP, the holding period will apply S Good 20 10 14 N A 19 10 17 to all participants who receive awards unless the Committee determines otherwise in its discretion, for example for awards A Hyland 01 06 13 01 06 16 31 05 19 made to below Board level participants.
The holding period will N Salmon 20 10 14 N A 19 10 17 expire on the earlier of two years and the date of speci c events, such as a Good Leaver event or a change of control, although the Copies of all letters of appointment of non-executive Directors Committee does have discretion to end the holding period for any areavailable for inspection at the Companys registered of ce other reason.
This discretion will not be applied in a way that during normal business hours and will be available for inspection creates adverse tax consequences for US participants.
For US participants, grants under the LTIP and Deferred Share Shareholder engagement Bonus Plan will be treated as restricted stock units so as to result The Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys in deferral of US income taxation until the shares are delivered to shareholders and would consult with major shareholders and the participants.
However, US social security tax will apply to the shareholder representative bodies ahead of any signi cant future value of the grants at vesting but not again on delivery of the changes to remuneration policy.
In order to avoid adverse US tax consequences, certain of the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan rules otherwise applicable to the holding deferral period have been modi ed for US participants e. g. delivery of shares will result from any separation from service of the Company and its af liates regardless of Good Leaver status.
Legacy matters Legacy awards or other commitments prior to the approval by shareholders of this policy report on 22 April 2015, including thosemade prior to 27 June 2012 but not modi ed or renewed after that date, to current or former Directors may still be paid notwithstanding that they have only been incorporated by reference and not been fully described in this Remuneration policy report.
These legacy awards and commitments comprise the LTIP awardsmade in 2014, as more fully described in the Annual report onremuneration.
48 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration The Committee considers that the bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a This Annual report on remuneration shows how the Companys retrospective basis in next years Directors remuneration report.
policies and practices on Directors remuneration will be applied in Bonus payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
2017 and how they were applied in relation to payments in respect of the financial year ended 2016.
This report and the Chairmans All employee share plans annual statement on remuneration will be put to an advisory Executive Directors will be entitled to participate in any all employee shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
share plans on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 LTIP This first section of the Annual report on remuneration describes For the year to 31 December 2017, the CEOs and the CFOs how the Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy awards will be 200 per cent and 175 per cent, respectively, of their for the financial year ending 31 December 2017. basic salaries.
Basic salaries The performance targets that are intended to apply to the awards The Committee considered carefully salary increases for 2017 and to be granted in the current year are the same as for 2016 in decided to award Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins each a salary respect of both the EPS and TSR conditions, which are capable increase as shown in the table below, which is consistent with the ofpaying out independently.
For fide nitions, see page 39. average increase last year for the respective US and UK workforce.
For the EPS condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a Salary as at Salary as at linear scale from 0 per cent to 100 per cent for average annual EPS 1January 2017 1 January 2016 Increase growth of 3 per cent to 10 per cent, respectively 2016: 3 per cent Paul Waterman $848,100 $825,000 2.8% to 10 per cent.
The EPS growth range has taken into account an Ralph Hewins 334,425 325,000 2.9% assumption of the global in ationary environment and the range selected provides a strong link to the business strategy and is set or date of appoinment if later at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately challenging through the cycle.
Pension and bene ts For the year to 31 December 2017, Paul Waterman and Ralph Vesting schedule: EPS performance condition Hewins will receive the bene ts set out in the Remuneration Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting policyreport.
100 Information concerning Brian Taylorsons remuneration in 2017 100% vesting isset out on page 57.
60 Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity will be 150 per cent of basic 40 salary for Paul Waterman and 125 per cent of basic salary for RalphHewins.
0 Any bonus will be payable dependent on the achievement of 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10% 11% 12% financial and nonfinancial performance targets split 70:30.
Average EPS growth % p. a. Ofthe financial elements these will have the following weights: PBT50 per cent and AWC 20 per cent relative to total bonus opportunity.
PBTis fide ned as reported Group pro t before tax, For the TSR condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a after adjusting items, and AWC is the 12 month average working linear scale from 3.85 per cent to 100 per cent for median to upper capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage.
For both the PBT quartile performance, respectively.
The TSR condition will be and AWC conditions, targets will be set on a sliding scale with the measured against the companies comprising the FTSE All Share threshold, plan and stretch targets set at levels considered to be Index excluding investment trusts.
suf ciently challenging and bonus accrual at these levels under both conditions are 0 per cent, 50 per cent and 100 per cent, Vesting schedule: TSR performance condition respectively, and linear in between.
Percentage of award subject to TSR performance vesting For Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins, the nonfinancial 100 100% vesting performance measures, which will be speci c, measurable and at Upper quartile 80 objective, are linked to the achievement of Company speci c or better objectives that are based on the strategic priorities set out at the 60 Capital Markets Day held in November last year.
40 Each of the performance elements PBT, AWC and nonfinancial 20 objectives is separate and capable of paying out independently.
No vesting 3.85% vesting The Committee has discretion to modify the overall amount of 0 below Median at Median bonus payable in exceptional circumstances and acting in the best Median Upper quartile interests of the Company.
Elementiss position relative to the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 49 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Non-executive Directors remuneration For the year to 31 December 2017, the fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive Directors will be as shown below: 2017 2016 Chairman 180,075 175,000 Non-executive Director 47,330 46,000 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 8,230 8,000 Chairman of Audit or Remuneration Committee 8,230 8,000 Fees were increased by 2.9 per cent in line with the UK salaried workforce increase in 2016.
Remuneration payable to Directors for 2016 audited Although the Company reports its results in US dollars the remainder of this report on remuneration is presented in pounds sterling because the majority of the Directors are UK based and paid in pounds sterling.
A breakdown of the Directors emoluments for the year ended 31December 2016 is set out in the table below.
He received an annual salary of $825,000 2015:nil.
His pension comprises 20 per cent of his salary and employer contributions to fide ned contribution pension schemes.
All remuneration shown has been pro-rated for his 8 February 2016 start date where relevant.
Bonus shown is equivalent to 42.5 per cent of salary.
The LTIPs relate to the tranche of his buyout award that vests on 7 March 2017 and has been valued using the average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2016 and based on 91.2 per cent vesting.
2 Ralph Hewins was appointed CFO-Designate and a Director on 12 September 2016 and CFO on 1 November 2016.
His pension is made up of a salary supplement of 25 per cent.
All remuneration shown has been pro-rated for his 12 September 2016 start date where relevant.
Bonus shown is equivalent to 38.0 per cent of salary.
3 David Dutro, who was CEO until 7 February 2016, was based in the US and paid in US dollars.
All remuneration shown has been pro-rated to 7 February 2016.
LTIP value assumes that the 2014 awards will lapse in full.
4 Brian Taylorson was CFO until 31 October 2016 and worked on a full time basis until the end of November 2016.
His pension in 2016 comprised a salary supplement of 30 per cent of his salary.
Bonus shown is equivalent to 41.0 per cent of salary and has been pro-rated to 30 November 2016.
All other remuneration shown has been pro-rated to 31 October 2016.
LTIP value assumes the 2014 awards will lapse in full.
50 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Determination of annual bonus outcome for performance in 2016 This section shows the performance targets set in respect of the 2016 annual bonus scheme, the level of performance achieved and the amount of bonus payable to Directors.
FY 2016 bonus plan targets Percentage vesting Relative Brian weighting of Paul Ralph Taylorson performance Actual Waterman Hewins Past 1 Full year bonus conditions Threshold Plan Stretch result CEO CFO Director Max as % salary pro-rated 134.43 37.91 114.41 PBT $ million 56% 108.1 116.8 122.8 89.7 nil % nil % nil % AWC % 14% 21.6 22.1 nil % nil % nil % Non-financial 30% 27.5% 30% 30% Total full year payment 100% 27.5% 30% 30% 1 David Dutro, who served as CEO until 7 February 2016, did not participate in the 2016 bonus plan.
No bonus became payable for the PBT and Average Working Capital elements of the bonus plan.
However, certain nonfinancial objectives were achieved as follows: Paul Waterman Key personal objectives included: i initiating a strategy review and developing a strategic plan for reigniting growth at the Company overthe medium term: ii restructuring the leadership team and aligning it behind the delivery of the strategic plan: iii identifying the organisational and resourcing needs and developing a succession and development plan for key management roles: and iv reviewing and improving accountabilities for operational risk and improving health and safety performance in the Group.
Achievements included: i the completion of a strategic review culminating in widespread acceptance at a Capital Markets Day with focus on growth in Personal Care and Asia: ii initiating the implemention of KAM and the development of a globally coordinated supply chain: and iii the reshaping and implementation of a new leadership structure, with globalised functions such as marketing and R&D, supported by a new performance management system and the on-boarding of a new CFO.
Performance fell short of expectations on health and safety performance in relation to the targets for reduced total recordable injuries and Lost Time Accidents.
The Committee determined that in the light of the above achievements and the strong performance in the role, 27.5 per cent out of 30 per cent should become payable in respect of the nonfinancial element of the bonus plan.
Ralph Hewins Key personal objectives included: i managing an effective hand over process with the retiring CFO: ii designing a new finance organisation to support the business in the delivery of its strategy and of its operating model: and iii supporting the CEO and leadership team in the delivery of the Capital Markets Day.
Achievements included: i getting up to speed quickly on the control environment and the financial support needs of the business: ii leading the preparation for, and helping to present, a well received Capital Markets Day: and iii aligning the internal audit programme with business priorities and risks, as well as delivering a smooth year end process with appropriate support and engagement for a newly appointed external auditor.
After the year end, Ralph also contributed signi cantly in the acquisition of SummitReheis, including arranging the appropriate and most cost effective debt in support of the transaction.
The Committee determined that Ralph had made an excellent contribution to the above objectives and should receive the full 30 per cent award in respect of the nonfinancial element of the bonus plan.
Brian Taylorson Key personal objectives included: i assisting the CEO to develop a strategic growth plan: ii developing relationships between the CEO and the wider investment, financial and adviser community: and iii effecting a smooth transition to Ralph Hewins as CFO.
The Committee determined that Brian has achieved in full all of the objectives he was set and, accordingly, all 30 per cent should become payable in respect of the nonfinancial element of the bonus plan.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 51 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Directors share based awards Determination of 2014 LTIP awards Of the Directors in place during the year, only David Dutro and Brian Taylorson held awards made in 2014, shown in the table on page 55 headed Directors scheme interests.
These awards have a vesting date of 1 April 2017.
The performance conditions EPS and TSR, split50:50 relate to performance over the three financial years ended 31 December 2016.
Under the EPS condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if EPS grew during the three financial years ended 2016 by an average of RPI 10percent p. a. or more.
Under the TSR condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts in the three financial years ended 31 December 2016 was at or above upper quartile.
Over the performance period, the Companys EPS growth did not achieve the minimum growth threshold and nd its TSR performance was 9 per cent which placed it at the 42 percentile of companies in the FTSE All Share index.
Accordingly, none of the 2014 awards will vest on 1 April 2017 and the LTIP component of the total remuneration gure in the table on page 50 is valued at nil.
Buyout awards in respect of Paul Watermans recruitment The Committee agreed to make replacement awards to Paul Waterman as explained in last years report with a value of c. $1.5 million, representing all equity related remuneration being forfeited by him on joining Elementis.
Two tranches of awards of restricted stock units RSUs were made on 7 March 2016, each over 225,645 ordinary shares in Elementis.
Within each tranche was a portion 57.5 per cent or 129,745 shares that was subject only to a service requirement of one or two yearsfrom the date of award re ecting a minimum vesting value of the forfeited awards.
The balance of the award 42.5 per cent or95,900 shares in each tranche was subject to performance conditions based on the following metrics: financial cash targets 30percentweight, operational HSE targets 30 per cent weight and speci c business objectives related to cost and talent management 40percent weight.
These metrics were in nature similar and equivalently challenging to those of the forfeited awards.
The first tranche is due to vest on 7 March 2017 and based on the performance assessment where applicable, 91.2 per cent of this award will vest, equivalent to 205,793 shares.
Details of the buyout awards and the performance outcome relating to tranche 1 are shown below.
Face value A summary of of award End of the performance Type of Number at grant Percentage that would vest vesting targets and 1 Award share award Grant date of awards 000s at threshold performance period measures Tranche 1 Nil cost option 07.03.16 225,645 519 57.5% of the award is subject to atime 07.03.2017 As above service condition only, reflecting restricted aminimum vesting value of the forfeited stock unit awards.
Of the 42.5% of the Tranche 2 Nil cost option 07.03.16 225,645 519 07.03.2018 As above awardsubject to performance restricted conditions, 30%is subject to stock unit cashtargets where threshold vesting rds is2 3 and threshold vesting for the remaining performance conditions which are all non-financial objectives vary.
1 The share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 230.20 pence, being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Tranche 1 overall vesting outcome 57.5 per cent or 129,745 shares: service only condition will be met: per cent vesting, 100 per cent or 129,745 shares.
42.5 per cent or 95,900 shares: performance conditions as below partially achieved: per cent vesting, 79.3 per cent or 76,048 shares.
100 per cent or 225,645 shares: per cent vesting in total: 91.2 per cent or 205,793 shares.
Performance related outcome in respect of 42.5 per cent of the award or 95,900 shares Cash targets $m 30% weight Threshold Payout Plan Payout Stretch Payout Result Payout 73.2 20% 78.3 25% 83.2 30% 77.5 24.3% HSE targets 30% weight Goals Payout Result Payout Environmental performance in 2016 vs set metrics 15% Achieved 15% Safety performance in 2016 vs set metrics 15% Did not achieve nil 52 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Business operational targets 40% weight Goals Payout Result Payout Business segment and central cost targets 20% Achieved 20% Talent management and succession planning objectives 20% Achieved 20% Total performance elements achieved: 79.3% Tranche 2 performance measures Similar cash, HSE and operational objectives were set in respect of the tranche 2 awards and, as these are considered commercially sensitive, they will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
Buyout awards in respect of Ralph Hewinss recruitment As previously published on the Companys website, buyout or replacement awards were agreed with Ralph Hewins in order tocompensate him for forfeiting remuneration triggered when he decided to leave BP to join Elementis.
These comprise: i 2014 equity and related awards that were mostly due to vest on 28 March 2017: ii all other remaining 2015 and 2016 equity and related awards that will not vest for another two to three years: and iii his lost 2016 bonus pro-rated.
The value of i will depend on the actual percentage of the BP awards that will vest based on performance, as well as BPs share price atthe date the BP awards are replaced.
These awards will be satis ed or replaced through an award in March 2017 of Elementis shares or nil cost options with no performance conditions re ecting the pro le of the forfeited awards but subject to a two year holding period.
The share price of BP and Elementis that will be used to value the BP award and determine the number of Elementis shares to award will be the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
The awards in ii were replaced entirely through a 2016 award on 19 September 2016 of Elementis nil cost options over 240,693 ordinary shares in Elementis, which is equivalent in value to 154 per cent of Ralph Hewinss starting salary.
These awards are subject to the same EPS and TSR performance conditions as those made in April 2016 to other participants of the Elementis LTIP and will ordinarily also vest in April 2019.
Percentage that A summary of Face value of would vest End of the performance Type of award at grant at threshold performance targets and 1 share award Grant date Number of awards 000s performance period measures Nil cost option 19.09.16 240,693 501 0% of the award 31.12.2018 Average annual subject to the EPS EPS growth of condition and 3% to 10% and 3.85% of the TSR performance award subject to of median to the TSRcondition.
1 The share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 208.20 pence, being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
The value of iii agreed was 139,500 duly pro-rated and will be satis ed in March 2017 partly by cash two thirds and partly through an award of Elementis shares or nil cost options one third.
The shares would be deferred for three years with no performance conditions, re ecting the vesting pro le of the forfeited remuneration.
All share based buyout awards to both Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins were, or will be where applicable, made under our remuneration recruitment policy and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Awards are made as part of a stand alone contractual arrangement borrowing from the terms of the rules of the 2008 LTIP as amended, save for vesting periods, individual limits and performance targets as applicable.
The deferred bonus award will borrow from the terms of our Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Allsharebased awards will be satis ed from repurchased trust held shares.
The Committee took advice from New Bridge Street when valuing the forfeited remuneration and structuring replacement awards and is satis ed that the value of the replacement or buyout awards for Ralph Hewins is no more than the value of the remuneration forfeited and that the nature and vesting conditions of the replacement awards are broadly similar to those awards being forfeited.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 53 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Annual LTIP awards granted in the year audited LTIP awards made in 2016 are set out in the table below and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions split 50:50 over the three years to 31 December 2018 as shown in the table below.
Percentage The end A summary of Face value of thatwould vest dateofthe performance Type of share Number award at grant atthreshold performance targets and 1 Award holder award Grant date of awards 000s performance period measures Paul Waterman Nil cost option 04.04.16 487,816 1,163 0% of the Average annual restricted award subject 31.12.2018 EPS growth of stock unit to the EPS 3% to 10% condition and andTSR Brian Taylorson Nil cost option 04.04.16 255,395 609 3.85% of the performance of award subject median to upper to the TSR quartile.
1 The share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 238.40 pence, being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Details of awards in savings based share schemes are shown in the table on page 55.
Sourcing shares for our share plans Employee share plans comply with the Investment Associations previously ABI guidelines on dilution which provide that overall issuance of shares under all plans should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital over any ten year period, with a further limitation of 5 per cent in any ten year period on discretionary plans.
Based on the number of awards that remain outstanding as at the year end, the Companys headroom for all plans is 4.6 per cent and for discretionary plans 3.8 per cent of issued share capital.
David Dutro and Brian Taylorson ceased to be Directors on 7 February and 31 October 2016 respectively.
As the performance conditions were not met, these awards will lapse in full on 1 April 2017.
These awards will lapse on the earlier of the normal vesting date 36 months from grant and 16 May 2017.
A Replacement awards structured as Restricted Stock Units made under standalone arrangements that borrow terms from the LTIP as amended.
Vesting conditions as set out on page 52.
B LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions.
The same EPS growth RPI plus 4 per cent to 10 per cent p. a. and relative TSR performance conditions apply in respect of the awards made in 2013, 2014 and 2015, as described in the Remuneration policy report.
These also applied to the 2016 award except that the EPS condition was average annual growth of 3 per cent to 10 per cent.
These awards ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and would expire on the tenth anniversary.
C Replacement awards structured as nil cost options made under standalone arrangements that borrow terms from the LTIP as amended.
Vesting conditions as set out on page 53.
D Savings based share options schemes are not subject to performance conditions.
David Dutros options were held under the US sharesave scheme and would ordinarily vest on the second anniversary of the grant date and expire three months thereafter.
Following his retirement, these options lapsed after the exercise period permitted under the scheme rules expired at the end of April 2016.
Brian Taylorsons options are held under the UK SAYE scheme.
Further details on these schemes are shown in note 24 to the Consolidated financial statements on page 105.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 55 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Directors share interests audited The interests of the Directors including any connected persons during the year and from the year end to 1 March 2017 in the issued shares of the Company were: Share interests Shareholding level Acquired Disposed met as at 01.01.16 during 2016 during 2016 31.12.16 31.12.16 Executive Directors 3 Paul Waterman 35,000 35,000 No 3 Ralph Hewins No Non-executive Directors Andrew Duff 50,000 50,000 n a Andrew Christie 10,000 10,000 n a Steve Good 10,000 10,000 n a Anne Hyland 10,000 10,000 n a Nick Salmon 10,000 10,000 n a Past Directors 1 David Dutro 520,818 520,818 n a 2 Brian Taylorson 440,778 93,834 534,612 n a Or from date of appointment if later.
1 David Dutro disposed of his shareholding shortly after his employment ceased.
2 Brian Taylorson retained 93,834 shares following the exercise and sale of options over 177,517 shares granted under the LTIP in 2012 at a price of 186.06 pence, giving him a pre-tax gain of c. 330k.
3 As per the Remuneration policy, share awards vesting over time will contribute to meeting the shareholding level.
The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2016 was 277.4 pence 2015: 229.1 pence and the range during 2016 was 180.6pence to 277.4 pence 2015: 208.2 pence to 320.5 pence.
As at 1 March 2017, the Trustee of the Companys ESOT held 455,000 shares 2015: 160,000.
As executive Directors, Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins, as potential bene ciaries under the ESOT, are deemed to have an interest in any shares that become held in the ESOT.
As at 1 March 2017, no person who was then a Director had any interest in any derivative or other financial instrument relating totheCompanys shares and, so far as the Company is aware, none of their connected persons had such an interest.
Between 31December 2016 and 1 March 2017 there was no change in the relevant interests of any such Directors nor, so far as the Company isaware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons.
Other than their service contracts, letters of appointment and letters of indemnity with the Company, none of the Directors had an interest in any contract of signi cance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Retirement bene ts The table overleaf shows the breakdown of the retirement bene ts of the executive Directors, comprising employer contributions to fide ned contribution plans and salary supplements paid in cash.
Neither David Dutro nor Brian Taylorson accrued any bene ts under any fide ned bene t scheme in 2016, which are closed to new members.
Paul Waterman received a salary supplement of 20 per cent of his basic salary pro-rated and participated in the fide ned Contribution plans, the details of which can be found in the Remuneration policy report.
The amount shown in the table overleaf represents employer matching contributions and both this and the salary supplement are included in the Directors emoluments table shown on page 50.
RalphHewins received a salary supplement of 25 per cent of his basic salary pro-rated in lieu of any other retirement bene t. The amount received is shown in the table overleaf and in the Directors emoluments table.
Brian Taylorson also received a salary supplement in lieu ofany other retirement bene t which was 30 per cent of his basic salary.
The amount shown overleaf has been pro-rated for the period inwhich he served as a Director.
David Dutro received a salary supplement of 20 per cent of his basic salary pro-rated and, as he alsoparticipated in the fide ned Contribution plans, he received a further amount in employer matching contributions as shown in the tableoverleaf.
56 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors retirement bene ts audited Defined Contribution plans Salary supplement 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 Paul Waterman 23 117 Ralph Hewins 25 Past Directors David Dutro 4 53 14 114 Brian Taylorson 87 238 Payment for loss of of ce David Dutro did not receive any payment for loss of of ce as a Director of the Company or any other payments in relation to the cessation of his employment.
After he left the Board on 7 February 2016, he continued to work and support Paul Waterman until 29 February 2016.
During that period, he continued to receive his xed remuneration comprising basic salary, bene ts and pension.
He did not participate inthe 2016 bonus plan and his LTIP awards and sharesave options were treated in accordance with the rules of the plans as follows: the 2013 LTIP awards lapsed in April 2016 as the performance conditions were not achieved: the 2014 LTIP awards which were not pro-rated for time served will lapse on 1 April 2017 also due to performance conditions not being achieved: the 2015 LTIP awards will ordinarily vest in April 2018 subject to performance these awards will be pro-rated for time served : and any outstanding sharesave options held may be exercised in accordance with the rules.
Brian Taylorson did not receive any payment for loss of of ce as a Director of the Company or any other payments in relation to the cessation of his employment.
After he left the Board on 31 October 2016, he continued to work and support Ralph Hewins on a full time basis until the end of November 2016 and then as required during the remainder of his notice period which ends on 16 May 2017.
From1November 2016 to 16 May 2017, he has received and will continue to receive his xed remuneration comprising basic salary, bene ts and pension.
He will not be participating in the 2017 bonus plan and his LTIP awards and savings based options were treated in accordance with the rules of the plans as follows: the 2014 LTIP award will lapse on 1 April 2017 as the performance conditions were not achieved: the 2015 and 2016 awards will lapse on expiry of his notice period which ends on 16 May 2017: and any outstanding savings based options held may be exercised in accordance with the rules.
Total shareholder return performance and change in CEOs pay The graph below illustrates the Companys total shareholder return for the eight years ended 31 December 2016, relative to the FTSE 250 Index, along with a table illustrating the change in CEO pay since 2009.
The table also details the varying award vesting rates year on year for the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
As the Companys shares are denominated and listed in pence, the graph below looks at the total return to 31 December 2016 of 100 invested in Elementis on 31 December 2008 compared with that of the total return of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was selected for the purpose of providing a relative comparison of performance because the Company is a member of it.
Relates to Paul Watermans replacement awards vesting in March 2017.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 57 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Other information about the Committees membership andoperation continued Committee composition The Chairman and members of the Committee are shown on Relative importance of spend on pay pages 30 to 31, together with their biographical information.
Eight The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the meetings were held during 2016 and the attendance records of Group together with the total dividends paid in respect of 2016 and Committee members are shown on page 33.
All meetings were the preceding financial year.
also attended by the Chairman of the Board, to ensure that all non-executive Board members were kept fully informed on the Remuneration against distributions operation and work of the Committee.
Both executive Directors m 2016 2015 Change also attend meetings by invitation, as appropriate, although they are not present when their own remuneration arrangements are Remuneration paid to all employees see note 8 to the Consolidated discussed or, if they are, they do not participate in the decision 1 financial statements 77.7 67.4 15.3% making process.
2 Total dividends paid in the year 55.1 46.0 19.8% Terms of reference 1.
The amounts for 2016 and 2015 have been converted from dollars intopounds sterling using the average USD GBP exchange rates for A full description of the Committees terms of reference, which those years.
wasreviewed and revised last year, is available on the Companys 2.
2016 and 2015 include a special dividend payment of $37.0 million 27.1 website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: million and $32.1 million 20.8 million respectively.
Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and Percentage change in CEOs pay executive Directors and keeping these under review.
The following table shows the change from 2015 to 2016 of the Making awards under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP, CEOs pay with regard to the three elements set out below and the including setting performance targets.
corresponding change of these elements across all employees within the Group.
Monitoring and making recommendations on the design, structure and level of remuneration for all senior executives, % Change from 2015 to 2016 ensuring that these are appropriately linked to the Groups strategy and aligned with the Boards risk pro le.
Salaries Benefits Bonus CEO pay total remuneration 7.5% 84.0% 27.5% Evaluation, training and development All employees 12.9% 16.6% 86.5% On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as All percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into part of the evaluation of the Board.
Following the evaluation last pounds sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
Change in bonus relates to payments in respect of the relevant year, there were no major issues to report.
During 2016 Committee members attended various external Statement of shareholder voting seminars on the latest developments on executive remuneration The resolution to approve the 2015 Directors remuneration report and all Board members received brie ngs from the Company excluding the remuneration policy was passed on a poll at the Secretary and the Committees remuneration advisers throughout Companys last AGM held on 27 April 2016.
Set out in the table the year, to keep them updated on topical matters and below are the votes cast by proxy in respect of that resolution.
developments relating to executive remuneration.
Approval of 2015 Directors remuneration report Remuneration advisers The Committees external advisers are New Bridge Street NBS Votes % Votes % Votes who were appointed after a tender in 2008.
This was reviewed for For against Against withheld again in 2013 and as a result they were retained as advisers.
Report 287,022,138 78.37 79,194,588 21.63 1,405,108 TheCommittee is satis ed that there is no over reliance on NBS, who have no connection with the Company other than as Votes withheld are not included in the final gures as they are not remuneration advisers.
Fees excluding VAT in 2016 were less recognised as a vote in law.
than36,000 and related to advisory services for the structure of remuneration packages for the new CEO and CFO, the departure A number of shareholders voted against the remuneration report of two executive Directors in the year, the review of the 2015 due to the decision not to pro-rate the departing CEOs 2014 LTIP remuneration report, the operation of the Companys share plans award despite the fact that they were not expected to vest and did and a review of below Board level incentives.
Shareholders concerns are understood and the Company will re ect on these concerns in future years.
58 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information In addition, Willis Towers Watson WTW were engaged by management during the year to support on a below Board review ofincentives.
As part of this engagement, a representative from WTW attended two of the Committees meetings held during theyear to present alongside management on observations and recommendations.
Fees in relation to attendance at these two meetings totalled less than $4,000.
The Company and Committee are satis ed that the advice received was independent and objective.
WTW were also engaged separately by management to design and implement a new HR system.
The above fees do not include the costs involved in supporting management on either of these projects.
WTW have no other connection with the Company beyond that as an employee bene t consultant.
Auditable sections of the Directors remuneration report The sections of the Annual report on remuneration that are required to be audited by law are as follows: Remuneration payableto Directors for 2016 and Retirement bene ts: and tablesheaded Annual LTIP awards granted in the year, Directors scheme interests, Directors share interests and Directors retirement bene ts.
Andrew Christie Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1 March 2017 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 59
