Remuneration report In the current competitive environment, the Group aims to ensure that its Remuneration Policy is aligned with its business objectives, and retains and motivates qualified senior executives in order to deliver sustainable, long-term returns to shareholders.
Alexander Izosimov Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This report has been prepared in Directors Key decisions accordance with the Companies Act Remuneration Policy taken during the year 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups The current Remuneration Policy was approved The Committee reviewed the CEOs salary Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 by shareholders at the AGM in June 2014.
The and determined that his salary for 2017 as amended in 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets the relevant requirements of Regulations require that shareholders formally will remain frozen at the same level as the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing approve the Remuneration Policy every three it has been since 2012.
This reflects the Rules and describes how the Board has years and so it is intended that an updated continuing challenging market conditions applied the principles of good governance Remuneration Policy will be put before and low level of wage increases to as set out in the UK Corporate Governance shareholders for approval by way of a binding employees across the Group in general.
Code April 2016. vote at the Companys AGM on 20 June 2017.
If approved by shareholders, the updated Based on performance against the preThis report contains both auditable and Remuneration Policy will have effect determined KPIs and targets, the CEOs non-auditable information.
Prior to that date, the annual bonus payout for 2016 was 40.78% subject to audit by the Groups auditors, Companys existing Remuneration Policy will of the maximum.
Ernst & Young LLP, is set out in the Annual remuneration report and has been continue to apply.
In line with its commitment to good corporate The Company reviewed the Remuneration governance, EVRAZ will continue to monitor Policy during the year and believes that it investors views, best-practice developments remains appropriate.
As such, the 2017 and market trends on executive remuneration.
Remuneration Policy will remain broadly These will be taken into account when unchanged from the Remuneration Policy deciding on executive remuneration at approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
EVRAZ to ensure that its Remuneration Policy remains appropriate in the context of business performance and strategy.
Annual remuneration report The second part of the report, the Annual remuneration report, sets out details of remuneration paid in 2016 and how the Group intends to apply its Remuneration Policy in 2017.
This section will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
120 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Policy report Details of the Remuneration Policy relating to The main objectives of the Remuneration executive and non-executive directors are set Policy are to attract, retain and reward out in the following section.
In accordance with talented staff and management, by offering section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, a compensation that is competitive within the binding shareholder resolution to approve this industry, motivates management to achieve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Companys business objectives, encourages Meeting of the Company to be held in 2017.
If a high level of performance, and aligns approved by shareholders, the Remuneration the interests of management with those of Policy will have effect immediately thereafter.
Prior to that date, the Companys existing Remuneration Policy will continue to apply.
Remuneration Policy Purpose and Element Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics link to strategy Executive director Base salary Provides a Normally reviewed annually, taking Generally, the maximum None level of base into account individual and market increase per year will be in pay to reflect conditions, including: size and line with the overall level of individual nature of the role, relevant market increases within the Group.
experience and pay levels, individual experience role to attract and pay increases for employees However, there is no overall and retain high across the Group.
maximum opportunity as calibre talent.
increases may be made above For the current CEO, base salary this level at the Committees incorporates a directors fee paid discretion, to take account of to all directors of the Company individual circumstances such for participation in the work of as increases in scope and the Board committees and Board responsibility and to reflect the meetings see the section on Nonindividuals development and executive Director Remuneration performance in the role.
Where a salary is paid in a currency other than US dollars, the Committee may make additional payments to ensure that the total annual salary equals the level of annual salary in US dollars.
Benefits To provide a Benefits currently include private The cost of benefits will None market level healthcare.
generally be in line with that for of benefits, as the senior management team.
appropriate Other benefits including pension However, the cost of insurance for individual benefits may be provided if the benefits may vary from year circumstances Committee considers it appropriate.
to year depending on the to recruit and The current CEO does not individuals circumstances.
retain executive participate in any pension scheme talent.
The overall benefit value will be set at a level the Committee In the event that an executive considers proportionate and director is required by the Group to appropriate to reflect individual relocate, or following recruitment, circumstances, in line with benefits may include but are not market practices.
limited to a relocation, housing, There is no total maximum travel and education allowance.
com 121 Purpose and Element Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics link to strategy Annual Aligns executive The Company operates an annual 200% of base salary in respect The bonus is based on achievement of bonus remuneration bonus arrangement under which of any financial year of the the Companys key quantitative financial, to Company awards are generally delivered Company operational and strategic measures strategy in cash.
in the year to ensure focus is spread through across the key aspects of Company rewarding the Targets are reviewed annually and performance and strategy.
achievement of linked to corporate performance annual financial based on predetermined targets.
The exact measures and associated and strategic weighting will be determined on business an annual basis, according to the targets.
Companys strategic priorities, however at least 60% will be based on Group financial measures.
For achievement of threshold performance, 0% of maximum will be paid, rising straight line to 50% of maximum for target performance and 100% of maximum for outstanding performance.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust bonus payments to reflect the overall performance of the Company.
Non-executive directors Chairman To provide Director fees are normally paid in the form of cash fees, but with the flexibility to forgo all or part of such fees and nonremuneration after deduction of applicable income tax and social taxes to acquire shares in the Company should the nonexecutive that is sufficient executive director so wish.
Non-executive director fees are reviewed from time to time.
director to attract and remuneration retain high Non-executive directors receive an annual fee for Board membership.
calibre nonexecutive talent Additional fees are payable by reference to other Board responsibilities taken on by the non-executive directors for example, membership and chairmanship of the Board committees.
The chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive annual fee.
Costs incurred in the performance of non-executive directors duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the costs.
This may include travel expenses, professional fees incurred in the furtherance of duties as a director, and the provision of training and development.
In addition, the Company contributes an annual amount towards secretarial and administrative expenses of nonexecutive directors.
Non-executive directors may not participate in the Companys share incentive schemes or pension arrangements.
Total fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in the Articles of Association.
The Committee reserves the right to make any The CEOs incentive arrangements are subject the Groups variable remuneration plans in remuneration payments and payments for loss to malus, under which the Committee may order to comply with Provision D. 1.1 of the 2016 of office that are not in line with the policy set adjust bonus payments downwards to reflect Corporate Governance Code.
This is noted in out above where the terms of the payment the overall performance of the Company.
the Corporate Governance report on page 104. were agreed before the policy came into effect The Committee does not operate clawback or at a time when the relevant individual was arrangements on directors remuneration on The Committee may make minor amendments not a director of the Company and, in the the basis that such arrangements would not be to the Remuneration Policy set out above opinion of the Committee, the payment was enforceable under the Russian Labour Code.
for regulatory, exchange control, tax or not in consideration of the individual becoming The Committee will keep this under review and administrative purposes or to take account a director of the Company.
should the Russian Labour Code change, they of a change in legislation without obtaining will revisit the inclusion of such provisions in shareholder approval for that amendment.
122 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Performance measures Policy on recruitment When setting salaries for new hires, the and targets Committee will take into account all relevant of executive directors factors, including the skills and experience Annual bonus measures and targets are In the event of hiring a new executive director, of the individual, the market from which they selected to provide an appropriate balance remuneration would be determined in line are recruited and the market rate for the role.
between incentivising the director to meet with the following Remuneration Policy.
This For interim positions, a cash supplement may financial objectives for the year and achieving Remuneration Policy has been developed be paid rather than salary for example a nonkey operational objectives.
They are reviewed to enable the Company to recruit the best executive director taking on an executive annually by the Committee to ensure that the candidate possible who will be able to function on a short-term basis.
measures and weightings are in line with the contribute to the Companys performance and strategic priorities and needs of the business.
will help to reach its goals.
To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may need to compensate an executive director Remuneration arrangements So far as practicable and appropriate, the for the loss of remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Committee will seek to structure pay and forfeited on joining the Company.
In granting benefits of any new executive directors in any buyout award, the Committee will take This remuneration approach and philosophy line with the current Remuneration Policy.
into account relevant factors including any is applied consistently at all levels, up performance conditions attached to the to and including the executive director.
This Notwithstanding this, the Committee awards forfeited, the form in which they ensures that there is alignment with business recognises that the executive director were granted eg cash or shares and the strategy throughout the Group.
Remuneration Remuneration Policy set out above is tailored timeframe of the awards.
The Committee will arrangements below Board level reflect towards the only current executive director, generally seek to structure the buyout on a the seniority of the role and local market the CEO, who has a significant shareholding comparable basis to awards forfeited.
The practices, and therefore the components in the Company.
Any new executive director overriding principle is that any buyout award and remuneration levels for different is likely to have a different fact-pattern to would be at or below the commercial value employees may differ in parts from the policy the current CEO, and thus the Committee of remuneration forfeited.
believes it is important to retain the flexibility to be able to offer other elements, namely The Committee retains the flexibility to alter For instance, in addition to a base salary, market competitive, share-based incentive the performance measures of the annual a performance-related bonus calculated by programs, which are linked to the Companys bonus for the first year of appointment, if the reference to KPIs aligned with the Groups performance and designed to align the Committee determines that the circumstances strategy and benefits, senior managers are executive directors interests to the delivery of the recruitment merit such alteration.
also entitled to participate in a long-term of growth in shareholder value.
This is designed to Where an executive director is appointed from align the interests of these individuals to the The maximum level of variable remuneration within the organisation, the normal policy delivery of long-term growth in shareholder which may be granted in respect of recruitment is that any legacy arrangements would be value.
The current CEO already holds a excluding any buyouts will not exceed the honoured in line with the original terms and substantial shareholding in the Group and ongoing policy of more than 200% of base conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is therefore does not participate in this plan.
salary, as described in the policy table above.
appointed following an acquisition of, or merger This additional headroom has been capped at with another company, legacy terms and Illustration of the application a level comparable with maximum award levels conditions will be honoured.
of the Remuneration Policy seen in conventional long-term incentive plans used in the wider UK-listed market.
On the appointment of a new chairman or The chart below provides an indication of what non-executive director, their remuneration will could be received by the executive director The Committees intention would be for typically be in line with the Remuneration Policy under the proposed Remuneration Policy.
any share-based incentive awards to be as set out above.
Any specific cash or share subject to performance conditions.
Where arrangements delivered to the chairman or the intention is to grant regular longnon-executive directors will not include share term incentive awards to a candidate, options or any other performance-related the Committee would seek appropriate elements.
Minimum 100% shareholder approval for a new share plan 2,521 in accordance with the Listing Rules.
In line with expectations 50% 50% 5,021 In line with Minimum Maximum expectations Maximum 33% 67% Base pay Base salary value of annual benefits provided in 2016 7,521 Annual bonus 0% of salary 100% of salary 200% of salary target opportunity maximum opportunity Base pay Annual bonus www.
com 123 Executive directors where an executive director leaves by reason Consideration of conditions of death, disability, ill-health, or other reasons elsewhere in the Company service contract that the Committee may determine, a bonus and loss of office policy may be awarded.
Any such bonus would Management prepares details of all employee The CEO has a service contract with normally be subject to performance and time pay and conditions, and the Committee a subsidiary of EVRAZ plc.
pro-rating, unless the Committee determines considers them on an annual basis.
Committee takes this into account when setting the CEO's remuneration.
However, The terms of the CEOs service contract the Committee does not consider any direct Executive Date Notice Non-executive directors comparison measures between the executive director of contract period director and wider employee pay.
The Group letters of appointment Alexander V. 31 December N A does not formally consult with employees on Frolov 2016 Each non-executive director has a letter executive director remuneration.
of appointment setting out the terms and The CEOs service contract does not provide conditions covering their appointment.
They Consideration of shareholder for any specific notice period and therefore, in are required to stand for election at the first views the event of termination, the applicable notice AGM following their appointment and, subject period will be as provided for in the Russian to the outcome of the AGM, the appointment When determining the Remuneration Policy, Labour Code from time to time where the is for a further one-year term.
Over and above the Committee takes into account investor body termination is at the Companys initiative, the this arrangement, the appointment may be guidelines and shareholder views.
entitlement to pay in lieu of notice is currently terminated by the director giving three months limited to three months base salary.
The notice or in accordance with the Articles of Committee may determine that a termination Association.
Letters of appointment do not payment of up to 12 months base salary provide for any payments in the event of loss should be paid, taking into consideration the of office.
Going forward, all new executive directors contracts will normally All directors are subject to annual reprovide for a notice period of no more than 12 appointment and accordingly each nonmonths and for any compensation provisions for executive director will stand for re-election termination without notice to be capped at 12 at the AGM on 20 June 2017. months base salary and contractual benefits.
Copies of the directors' letters of appointment There is no automatic entitlement to annual or, in the case of the CEO, the service contract, bonus and executive directors would not are available for inspection by shareholders at normally receive a bonus in respect of the the Group's registered office.
financial year of their cessation.
However, The key terms of the non-executive directors appointment letters Non-executive directors Date of contract Notice period Alexander G. Abramov 14 October 2011 Three months Karl Gruber 14 October 2011 Three months Alexander Izosimov 28 February 2012 Three months Sir Michael Peat 14 October 2011 Three months Deborah Gudgeon 31 March 2015 Three months Eugene Shvidler 14 October 2011 Three months Eugene Tenenbaum 14 October 2011 Three months 124 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual remuneration report This section summarises remuneration paid Pension and benefits audited disposals higher than US$50 million, Cash out to directors for the 2016 financial year, Cost Index and Board assessment of overall and details of how the Remuneration Policy will The CEO does not currently receive any performance against strategic objectives.
be implemented in the 2017 financial year.
Benefits consist principally of private healthcare.
The Committee reviews the resulting bonus Executive directors payout to ensure that it is appropriate in light remuneration Annual bonus of the Groups overall performance.
In 2016, the CEO, Alexander Frolov, was entitled The CEO is eligible for a performance-related Despite a highly volatile business environment to a base salary, a performance-related bonus bonus that is paid in cash following the year in 2016, EVRAZ generally outperformed and provision of benefits.
As a member of the end, subject to the agreement of the Committee its financial targets, resulting in an annual Board, he is also entitled to a directors' fee and approval by the Board of Directors.
The bonus payout of 40.78% of the maximum.
US$150,000 and any applicable fees for bonus is linked to achieving performance Management focused on best utilisation participation in the work of the Board Committees conditions based on predetermined targets set of temporary market improvements: domestic as laid out in the section below on non-executive by the Board of Directors.
The target bonus is steel price growth in Q2 and export coal and director remuneration.
However, the Committee 100% of base salary with a maximum potential iron ore price rises in Q4.
These efforts, along considers these fees to be incorporated in of 200% of base salary.
with tight control over operational efficiency his base salary.
Alexander Frolov's current and investments, have helped to overcome shareholding 10.68% of issued share capital Annual bonus for 2016 audited the market fall in Q1 and mitigate logistics as of 1 March 2017 provides alignment with issues in Russia.
Free cash flow was negatively the delivery of long-term growth in shareholder The bonus is linked to the Groups main affected by transaction costs associated with value.
As such, the Committee does not consider quantitative financial, operational and earlier debt repayment.
However, the working it necessary for the CEO to participate in any strategic measures during the year to ensure capital optimisation drive fully compensated long-term incentive plans or to impose formal alignment with the key aspects of Group for this.
However, the Committee performance and strategy.
For 2016, the will continue to review this on an ongoing basis.
following five indicators, each with an equal The Committee determined that this level of weighting of 20%, were taken into account vesting is reflective of the Companys overall Single total figure when determining the CEO's annual bonus: financial performance and commensurate of remuneration audited LTIFR, EBITDA, Free Cash Flow adjusted for with the shareholder experience.
Key elements of the CEOs remuneration package received in relation to 2016 compared with the prior year Alexander Details of the targets set for each KPI, the actual achievement in the year 2016 US$ 2015 US$ V. Frolov and total payout level for the 2016 bonus Salary and 2,500,000 2,500,000 1 Result Measurement Bonus director fees KPIs Actual 2016 payout Planned level Threshold Outstanding Benefits 21,184 19,935 % of max % of target Bonus 2,038,870 666,650 LTIFR 2.09 1.74 1.39 2.36 0.0 Total 4,560,054 3,186,585 EBITDA US$1,160m US$1,450m US$1,740m US$1,542m 65.9 FCF US$500m US$625m US$750m US$659m 63.6 Base salary Cash cost index 110% 100% 90% 105% 24.4 The current CEO salary was approved by the BoD discretion Committee assessment of overall See section 50.0 Committee on 23 May 2008 at US$2,500,000 Company performance during the year, Board which includes, for the avoidance of doubt, including consideration of operational assessment the directors' fee, fees paid for Committee performance, financial performance, of overall membership and any salary from an EVRAZ plc shareholder value creation, outcome performance of key projects and stakeholder on page 126 subsidiary.
For 2016, the CEO's salary will remain Total 40.78 unchanged at US$2,500,000.
1 At the start of 2015, the Committee agreed a new exchange rate, which applied to all rouble-denominated salary payments throughout the year.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate meant that the total rouble amount paid to the CEO in the year equalled less than US$2,500,000.
As such, at the last Committee meeting, it was decided that in future situations where the rouble amount paid is below US$2,500,000, a one-off payment would be made to the CEO after the year-end.
com 125 Board assessment of overall Annual bonus for 2017 as chairman of more than one Committee performance is generally entitled to receive fees in For 2017, the bonus framework will be in line respect of one chairmanship only.
The fee EVRAZ Remuneration policy stipulates that the with 2016.
Forward targets are considered for the chairman of the Board amounts discretionary portion of the bonus should reflect by the Board to be commercially sensitive: to US$750,000 from 1 March 2012 this the CEOs performance in relation to the Groups however, they will generally be disclosed in the fee includes, for the avoidance of doubt, key strategic priorities, as well as his efforts subsequent year.
In line with previous years, directors' fees and fees paid for Committee to ensure its long-term success.
The key reasons a malus arrangement will apply under which membership.
to award the discretionary portion of the bonus bonus payouts may be adjusted downwards to in full are: reflect the overall performance of the Group.
Fees will remain unchanged for 2017.
The business stabilised in 2016 Progress was made on all key strategic priorities amid very volatile times for the Non-executive directors Aggregate directors Group remuneration remuneration Net debt was reduced by 10% year-on-year In terms of portfolio development, EVRAZ Non-executive directors remuneration payable The aggregate amount of directors remuneration continued to grow and retained its in respect of 2016 and 2015 is set out in a payable in respect of qualifying services for the leadership positions in the targeted valuetable below.
year ended 31 December 2016 was US$6,977 added segments rails, long steel, and thousand 2015: US$5,968 thousand.
premium coking coal A non-executive directors remuneration Costs were reduced by more than consists of an annual fee of US$150,000 US$300 million, allowing the Group to retain and a fee for Committee membership Share ownership by the one of the worlds lowest cost positions US$24,000 or chairmanship US$100,000 Board of Directors audited The CEO placed a strong focus on developing for chairmanship of the Audit Committee senior management talent, which allowed and US$50,000 for other committees.
As set out earlier in this report, there are no them to implement appropriate and timely For reference, the fees payable for the formal minimum shareholding requirements changes to strengthen the performance chairmanship of a Committee include the currently in place, reflecting the CEOs current of EVRAZ executive team membership fee, and any director elected shareholding in EVRAZ.
Single total figure of remuneration audited 2016 US$ thousand 2015 US$ thousand Non-executive director Total 2 Total 2 1 Admin Total 1 Admin Total fees fees Alexander G. Abramov 750 30 780 750 30 780 Alexander Izosimov 242.6 30 272.6 212.2 30 242.2 Eugene Shvidler 174 30 204 174 30 204 Eugene Tenenbaum 150 30 180 150 30 180 Karl Gruber 248 30 278 238 30 268 3 Duncan Baxter 84 6.25 90.25 224 30 254 3 Olga Pokrovskaya 74.25 6.25 80.5 198 30 228 Sir Michael Peat 219 30 249 216.2 30 246.2 Deborah Gudgeon 269 30 299 154 20 174 4 190 15 205 Terry Robinson 1 Total fees include annual fees and fees for Committee membership or chairmanship pro rata working days.
2 The Group contributes an annual amount of US$30,000 towards secretarial and administrative expenses of non-executive directors.
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, the Group reimburses directors travel and accommodation expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties.
3 Resigned on 14 March 2016 4 Resigned on 18 June 2015 126 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The directors interests in EVRAZ shares Policy on external Performance graph as of 31 December 2016 were as follows: appointments The graph below shows the Group's Total holding, The Committee believes that the Company performance measured by total shareholder Number Directors Ordinary of shares can benefit from executive directors holding return compared with the performance of shares, % approved non-executive directorships in other the FTSE 350 mining Index since EVRAZ plc's Alexander 303,541,958 21.38% companies, offering executive directors the admission to the premium listing segment of Abramov opportunity to broaden their experience and the London Stock Exchange on 7 November Alexander 151,573,018 10.68% knowledge.
Company policy is to allow executive 2011.
The FTSE 350 mining Index has been Frolov directors to retain fees paid from any such selected as an appropriate benchmark, as it Eugene 43,805,030 3.09% appointment.
The CEO does not currently hold a is a broad-based index of which the Group is a Shvidler non-executive directorship of another company.
Alexander 80,000 0.01% Izosimov The table below shows as a single figure the There have been no changes in the directors Relative importance CEO's total remuneration over the past six interests from 31 December 2016 through years, along with a comparison of variable of spend on pay 28 February 2017. payments as a percentage of the maximum The graph below shows comparison of total bonus available.
The shares held by Alexander Izosimov were cost of remuneration paid to all employees acquired in 2012 when he was appointed as an between current and previous years and independent non-executive director.
financial metrics in US$ millions.
EBITDA was chosen for the comparison as it is a KPI which All shares held by directors are held outright, best shows the Groups financial performance.
with no performance or other conditions attached to them, other than those applicable For more information on EBITDA to all shares of the same class.
Other directors do not currently hold any shares in the Company.
com 127 Percentage change in the elements of remuneration for the director undertaking Percentage change in remuneration the role of CEO compared with average figures for Russia-based administrative personnel The table on the right sets out the percentage change in the elements of remuneration Russian for the director undertaking the role of CEO CEO administrative compared with average figures for Russiapersonnel based administrative personnel.
This group of Salary 0% 5% employees has been selected as an appropriate comparator, as they are based in the same Benefits 6% 13% geographic market as the CEO, so are subject Annual bonus 203% 30% to similar external environment pressures.
Role of the Committee to review and approve any compensation Composition payable to executive directors and key senior of the Remuneration The Committee is a formal committee of the executives in connection with any dismissal, Committee Board and can operate with a quorum of two loss of office or termination whether for Committee members.
It is operated according misconduct or otherwise to ensure that This section gives details of the composition to its Terms of Reference, a copy of which can such compensation is determined in of the Committee and activities undertaken be found on the Group's website.
accordance with the relevant contractual over the past year.
terms and Remuneration Policy, and that The main responsibilities of the Committee are: such compensation is otherwise fair and not Members of the Committee to set and implement the Remuneration excessive for the Group: Policy covering the chairman of the Board, to oversee any major changes in employee The composition of the Committee changed the CEO, the company secretary and other benefits structures throughout the Group.
The current members of the executive directors, and to recommend Remuneration Committee are set out below: and monitor the level and structure of During 2016, the Committee met three times.
Alexander Izosimov became Committee remuneration for key senior management: The purpose of the meetings was to consider Chairman on 14 March 2016 to take into account all factors that it deems and make recommendations to the Board in Deborah Gudgeon joined the Committee necessary to determine, such as framework relation to the remuneration packages of the on 14 March 2016 or policy, including all relevant legal and executive director and key senior managers: to Sir Michael Peat joined the Committee regulatory requirements, the provisions approve the annual bonus for the 2015 results: on 14 March 2016 and recommendations of the UK Corporate and to approve the 2016 long-term incentive Governance Code and associated guidance: plan LTIP awards for key senior management.
Karl Gruber stepped down from the to review and take into account Committee and joined the Audit Committee remuneration trends across the Group when on 14 March 2016. setting the Remuneration Policy: to review regularly the appropriateness and Duncan Baxter who was Committee Chairman relevance of the Remuneration Policy: till 14 March 2016 stepped down from the to determine the total individual remuneration Board of Directors on 14 March 2016. package of the chairman of the Board, the company secretary and other executive No directors are involved in deciding their own directors, including pension rights, bonuses, remuneration.
The Committee may invite other benefits in kind, incentive payments and share individuals to attend Committee meetings, options or other share-based remuneration in particular the CEO, the head of human within the terms of the agreed policy: resources and external advisers for all or to approve awards for participants where part of any Committee meeting as and when existing share incentive plans are in place: appropriate and necessary.
128 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Advisers The Committee received advice during the year The Committee is satisfied that the nature from Deloitte LLP, which it selected to provide of Sir Michael's role at Deloitte LLP does not independent remuneration consultancy services give rise to such conflict and that there are to the Group.
Deloitte is a member of the appropriate internal controls and segregation Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, of duties in place.
Sir Michael did not play a voluntarily operates under the code of conduct part in the tender and selection process.
in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The code of conduct can be found at The Committee is satisfied that the advice www.
they have received has been objective and independent.
During the year, Deloitte advised the Committee on developments in the regulatory Shareholder considerations environment and market practice and on the development and disclosure of the Groups EVRAZ remains committed to ongoing pay arrangements.
The total fee for advice shareholder dialogue and takes an active provided to the Committee during the year was interest in feedback received from its GBP29,900.
Other parts of Deloitte provided shareholders and from voting outcomes.
unrelated tax and regulatory advisory services during the year.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to directors' Sir Michael Peat, an independent non-executive remuneration, the Group shall seek to director of EVRAZ, is also an independent nonunderstand the reasons for any such vote and executive on the Board of Deloitte LLP.
Both will detail any actions in response to these.
the chairman of the Board and the Committee chairman recognise the need to ensure that The table on the left sets out actual voting there is no conflict of interest arising from the results from the Annual General Meeting, appointment of Deloitte LLP as independent which was held, in respect of the previous remuneration consultants.
remuneration report and Remuneration Policy.
Actual voting results from the Annual General Meeting Total votes as % of Number of votes For Against Withheld issued share capital To approve the Annual remuneration report section of the directors' 1,062,930,124 10,684,012 20,000 75.63% 1 remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2015 99.00% 1.00% That the Directors' Remuneration Policy contained in the directors 1,024,608,770 6,996,299 10,265,194 68.48% remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013 be 99.32% 0.68% approved 1 Percentage of votes cast.
These results illustrate the strong level of shareholder support for the directors' remuneration framework.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, Alexander Izosimov Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2017 www.
