Governance Report on directors remuneration 99 Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 16 July 2014 and the Committee intends to implement this policy for the three years to July 2017.
Last year, the policy was adjusted for clarity to include information on the introduction of clawback provisions, in line with the revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have included below the Policy table, which we consider to be the most helpful section of the policy for shareholders.
The full and original version of the policy, as approved by shareholders, is available on the Companys website at www.
Policy table Element and link Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics, to strategy value and payment at target weightings, relevant time period and clawback Base salary Reflects the Base salary is paid in equal instalments The annual salary increases for When the Committee competitive during the year.
executive directors are normally considers salary increases, market salary in line with those for the Group it takes into account Salaries are reviewed annually, with any for the role and as a whole.
individual performance over increases generally taking effect from takes account the preceding financial year.
Higher increases may be made of personal as a result of a change in role or Salary levels and increases take into contribution and responsibility, and will take account account the prevailing economic conditions, performance of market practice in relation to the best practice, positioning against the against Group new role.
Such increases may also market and the approach to employee strategy.
be made where the current salary remuneration throughout the Group.
level is behind market benchmarks.
Benefits Benefits are The Group provides a range of marketThe Committee sets benefits at None.
provided competitive benefits that includes, a level it considers appropriate as part of a but is not limited to, healthcare, death against relevant market practice competitive and in service provision, company car or for comparable roles in similar cost effective allowance, financial and tax advice and companies, and sufficient package.
based on the role and particular circumstances for example In the USA, eligible executive Further benefits where the individual is required directors may participate in a deferred may be provided to relocate.
compensation plan, which is standard to support market practice in the USA.
expatriates, where they have Executive directors can also participate relocated.
in any of the Groups all-employee share plans, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
For expatriate assignments, we retain the flexibility to tailor benefits to the circumstances of the assignment.
Additional benefits may include relocation expenses at the beginning and end of each assignment, housing allowance and school fees.
100 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Element and link Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics, to strategy value and payment at target weightings, relevant time period and clawback Pension Provides In the UK, the Group operates a defined In the UK, the cash payment or None.
competitive contribution plan with company pension contribution for executive retirement contributions set as a percentage of base directors is normally equal to provision.
An individual may elect to receive 20% of annual gross salary but a cash allowance instead.
may be increased if market practice changes.
The Group also operates a defined benefit plan which is now closed to new entrants, In the USA, the contribution rate is except in the exceptional circumstance equivalent to 4% of earnings, up to that this was necessary, for example, to an annual compensation limit set recruit an executive director to the Board.
by the Internal Revenue Service.
In the USA, executive directors are eligible to join a defined contribution plan.
As agreed on his appointment to the Board in 2006, a supplementary unfunded defined benefit arrangement was provided in the USA for Don Robert, which broadly mirrors the pension that would have been provided through the UK defined benefit plan.
Annual bonus Motivates and The Committee approves the performance Minimum payout is zero.
The annual bonus rewards the targets at the start of each financial year.
is entirely based on For below-target performance, a achievement of financial performance.
At the end of the financial year, the payout would generally only be specific financial Committee determines the extent to made if the Committee judges that The Committee will objectives, linked which these have been satisfied, based circumstances justify it.
exercise its judgment on to Experians on audited results, and agrees the whether to vary the level Bonus of 100% of salary is payable strategy to level of bonus.
of payout, if it considers for target performance.
drive profitable that the payout determined Payment is made as soon as practicable Bonus of 200% of salary is payable growth.
by measuring performance after the financial year-end, unless the for maximum performance.
is inconsistent with the executive director elects to defer some or Groups actual underlying all of their bonus into the CIP.
Governance Report on directors remuneration 101 Element and link Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics, to strategy value and payment at target weightings, relevant time period and clawback CIP Use of stretching Participants are invited to invest between Minimum vesting of matching Vesting of awards is based financial metrics 50% and 100% of their annual bonus in shares is zero.
on financial performance, incentivises Experian shares.
subject to the Committee Nothing vests for below-target performance.
being satisfied that the A conditional award of matching shares performance.
vesting is not based on Aligns with is granted on a two-for-one basis, and will For target performance, matching materially misstated shareholder vest subject to achieving performance shares vest on a one-for-one basis.
interests through targets tested over a three-year period.
For maximum performance, personal The Committee will exercise Dividend equivalents accrue on conditional matching shares vest on a investment its judgment on whether to awards of shares.
and delivery of vary the level of vesting, if shares.
it considers that the level of vesting determined by Encourages measuring performance participants is inconsistent with the long-term Groups actual underlying commitment financial and operational to the Group performance.
PSP Annual award of conditional shares which Normal maximum award levels Vesting of up to 25% of Use of stretching vest subject to achieving performance are 200% of salary.
Awards of up the awards is based on a financial metrics incentivises targets tested over a three-year period.
to 400% of salary may be made in share-based metric, with performance.
exceptional circumstances such as the balance based on Dividend equivalents accrue on conditional on recruitment.
Aligns with awards of shares.
shareholder Minimum vesting of awards is zero.
Awards are also subject to interests through a financial underpin and a Nothing vests for below-target delivery of clawback feature whereby performance.
vesting is subject to the For target performance, 25% of Committee being satisfied the shares vest.
that it is not based on For maximum performance, materially misstated 100% of the shares vest.
The Committee will exercise its judgment on whether to vary the level of vesting, if it considers that the level of vesting determined by measuring performance is inconsistent with the Groups actual underlying financial and operational performance.
102 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Element and link Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics, to strategy value and payment at target weightings, relevant time period and clawback Share Option Plan SOP Provides focus Options are granted with an exercise Normal maximum awards are The vesting of options on increasing price equivalent to the market value of 200% of salary.
However, the rules is based on financial Experians share an Experian share at the date of of the SOP allow awards of up to performance targets.
These vest subject to achieving 400% of salary.
medium to performance targets that are tested over Minimum vesting of awards is zero.
a three-year period and are exercisable Nothing vests for below-target for a seven-year period thereafter.
No option grants have been made since For target performance, 2009 and the Committee has agreed that 25% of the options vest.
no further awards will be made, unless For maximum performance, warranted by exceptional circumstances 100% of the options vest.
Chairman and non-executive director NED fees Attract The Chairman is paid a fee in equal The Committee sets the No performance-related individuals with instalments.
The Group may provide the Chairmans fees and benefits at arrangements are in a broad range Chairman with a limited range of benefits a level it considers appropriate, place for the Chairman of experience such as a company car or allowance, against comparable roles in or the NEDs.
and skills, to healthcare and tax advice.
oversee the NED fees are set by the Board The NEDs are paid a basic fee plus implementation as a whole.
additional fees for chairing a Board of our strategy.
Committee and for the role of Deputy Fees are normally reviewed Chairman Senior Independent Director.
every two years, against those of NED fees are paid in equal instalments Chairmen and NEDs in companies during the year.
of similar size, international reach and complexity.
NEDs receive an additional fee where attendance at Board meetings involves intercontinental travel from their home location.
The Company may settle any tax due on travel expenses incurred by the Chairman and NEDs.
Notes The remuneration policy for executive directors, and for around 800 members of our senior management, is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This makes the greater part of their remuneration conditional on successfully delivering our business strategy and, in turn, high levels of corporate performance and shareholder returns.
This underpins the link between creating value for shareholders and the pay of our most senior leaders.
The performance measures used in the annual bonus and the long-term incentive plans are all financial or share-based.
The  process, which we use throughout Experian, assesses executives against both financial and nonfinancial objectives.
Performance against these individual objectives ultimately supports our financial performance, so the Committee believes it is appropriate that financial metrics remain the key measures.
These seek to ensure the underlying financial performance of the business, while clearly aligning the interests of shareholders and executive directors.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 10 May 2016
