82 Governance Report on directors remuneration Report on directors remuneration Roger Davis Chairman of Remuneration Committee Current members Roger Davis Chairman Judith Sprieser George Rose Deirdre Mahlan Luiz Fleury Paul Walker INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN The Remuneration Committee the Committee is pleased to present its Report on directors remuneration the Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Committees aim is to ensure that our remuneration policy and outcomes support Experians p8 business strategy, details of which you can find in the Our strategy section of this Annual Report.
In order to achieve this, we have carried out a number of activities during the course of the year and full details of these, as well as the Committees roles and responsibilities, are set out in the section entitled The Remuneration Committee.
This year, we have made some changes to the layout of the Report and, in particular, have included a Remuneration at a glance section to provide shareholders with a summary of our historical and forward-looking pay relative to performance.
The rest of the Report is split into two sections: the first is our Annual report on remuneration which explains how we implemented our Directors remuneration policy for the year ended 31 March 2016, and how we propose to implement it for the year ending 31 March 2017 and the second sets out our remuneration policy table as approved by shareholders on 16 July 2014, and which applies until the 2017 AGM.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the Annual report on remuneration at the AGM on 20 July 2016.
Pay and performance in the last financial year Business context The past year has seen us make meaningful progress, delivering strong financial and business results.
More information on this can be found elsewhere in this Annual Report.
However, I would like to particularly note the performance of our business in Brazil, which has held up well in the face of the challenging economic environment in the country: and the return to growth in North America following the actions taken to reposition our North American Consumer Services business, where we are now seeing an underlying improvement in trends.
During the year, we have also delivered organic revenue growth of 5%, whilst maintaining our EBIT margin at constant currency and returning US$972m to our shareholders through dividends and net share purchases.
Annual bonus In light of the strong business performance and in line with the overall Benchmark PBT performance against the targets set at the beginning of the year, the Committee approved a maximum bonus payout to each of the executive directors.
Further details of the annual bonus outcomes are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Long-term incentives Performance periods for the awards granted under the Co-investment plan CIP and Performance Share Plan PSP in 2013 ended on 31 March 2016 and, accordingly, the Committee considered the vesting of the awards this year.
The CIP awards were based equally on Benchmark PBT growth and cumulative operating cash flow targets.
Although the cumulative operating cash flow target was partially met, we did not meet our stretching three-year Benchmark PBT growth targets and, as a result, 47.6% of the CIP awards vested.
The PSP awards were based on Benchmark PBT growth and total shareholder return TSR targets.
As the TSR target was partially met, 11.3% of the PSP awards vested.
Further details on the long-term incentive outcomes are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Salary During the year, the Committee approved salary increases for the executive directors of between 2.8% and 2.9%.
These increases were in line with those awarded to the wider employee population across the Group.
Further details are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Governance Report on directors remuneration 83 Looking ahead Following the executive leadership team changes last year, as well as the renewal of Experians long-term incentive plans at the 2015 AGM, 2016 has been a settled year and we expect the coming year to be similar.
Last year shareholders showed support for our long-term incentive arrangements by voting in favour of renewing our existing plans at the 2015 AGM.
The plans are directly linked to the business strategy, reflecting three of our key performance indicators Benchmark PBT per share, operating cash flow and ROCE, and have historically provided strong motivation for our executive directors to grow the business.
We are pleased that shareholders have continued to support these plans.
Annual bonus disclosure Whilst we received strong support from our shareholders for our long-term incentive plans, we noted that a number of shareholders called for an increase in the levels of disclosure in respect of our annual bonus targets.
The Committee has historically believed that targets for our annual bonus metric, being solely growth in Benchmark PBT, are commercially sensitive and their disclosure would be detrimental to shareholders longer-term interests.
However, we are aware of shareholders desire for increased transparency around annual targets and that many companies are now providing more information in this area.
The Committee has therefore reviewed its position and has decided in future to disclose the annual bonus targets one year following the completion of the relevant performance period.
This new approach will apply for the year commencing 1 April 2016 and these targets will be disclosed in the following years Report.
We believe that this approach maintains an appropriate balance between protecting the commercial interests of Experian and its shareholders, and providing greater transparency in respect of our targets.
Ensuring shareholder alignment We acknowledge that shareholders are increasingly calling for longer-term remuneration structures as a means of strengthening shareholder alignment.
Given the overwhelming support for the renewal of our long-term incentive plans last year, we believe that our current policy already provides strong and significant alignment between the long-term interests of management and our shareholders, through: shareholding guidelines, which are set at upper quartile levels relative to the market: a history of executive directors choosing to defer 100% of their bonuses into Experian shares under the CIP in each year since their appointment to the Board: and executive directors holding vested shares from both the PSP and CIP in order to reach their shareholding guidelines as quickly as possible.
We believe that the combination of these features achieves the same objectives as, for example, compulsory post-vesting holding periods, whilst ensuring that our incentive plans remain tailored to Experian.
Summary Overall, I am pleased with the year we have had, and believe that the changes we have made to this Report improve the level of information and transparency for shareholders.
As a Committee, we will continue to engage with our key shareholders and strive to implement an executive remuneration framework which is both fair and appropriate.
I would like to conclude by thanking my fellow Committee members and those who support the Committee for their commitment and guidance over the year.
I am also grateful for the input received from shareholders which plays an important part in developing responsible pay practices.
I look forward to receiving your support at the 2016 AGM.
