REMUNERATION REPORT 1 A Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016, and the first following my appointment as Remuneration Committee Chairman following Mike Salamons retirement from the Board in May 2016.
I would like to thank Mike and the rest of the Committee for their work during the year.
As in recent years, this report is split into two distinct sections.
The first Part A, which is not subject to audit, sets out Ferrexpos remuneration policy for Executive and Non-executive Directors which was last approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is accordingly subject to shareholder approval again at the 2017 AGM.
The changes to the policy that we are proposing this year are set out on the next page and are relatively minor, reflecting changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the introduction of malus and clawback provisions and developments in market best practice.
We have consulted our largest institutional shareholders over these proposals, and their responses give us confidence that the amended policy will meet with the approval of the great majority of shareholders.
The second part of the report Part B reviews how the Companys remuneration policy was implemented in 2016, and will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The sections subject to audit are highlighted throughout.
During 2016, the benchmark price of iron ore increased substantially from a low base, although circumstances in Ukraine continued to be challenging.
The Company remained focused on its core strengths and repeated its strong operational performance of 2015, increasing the volume and quality of production to record levels, reducing costs and increasing sales volumes.
The Committee believes that this performance is fairly reflected in executive remuneration outcomes for the year, as set out in this report and taking into consideration the specific arrangements regarding Mr Zhevago the CEO outlined below.
Considering the challenging business operating conditions in 2016, a decision was taken to reduce Non-executive Directors fees by 10% to US$135,000 p. a. from 1 September 2016 and Committee Chairmens fees to US$35,000 p. a. from 1 January 2017.
It is the policy of the Board to align executive and shareholder interests by linking a high proportion of remuneration to performance, basing rewards on a balanced portfolio of performance measures, and assessing them against the relevant market so as to ensure that they attract, motivate and retain talented executives.
The CEOs incentive is derived entirely from his shareholding in the Company, and his salary is paid at a flat rate of US$240,000 per year, all of which is donated to charity.
The Board considers this large shareholding in the business to be a significant factor in aligning the performance of the CEO with other shareholders interests, and is satisfied that this structure is appropriate.
The remuneration of Mr Zhevago and Mr Mawe the Executive Directors is disclosed in local currency and allows year-on-year comparison, uninfluenced by exchange rate fluctuations on notional conversion into US Dollars.
Mr Mawes the CFO salary is unchanged for the year commencing 1 January 2017.
No significant changes were made to the implementation of the remuneration policy during the year.
As stated above, it is in the interests of shareholders to align the incentives of the executives and the shareholders, and the Board keeps under review the structure and level of remuneration afforded through share-based incentives and ownership in relation to variable and fixed pay.
BERT NACKEN CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 1 This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
FERREXPO PLC 61 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PART A: POLICY SECTION Committee Terms of reference for the Committee have been approved by the Board, and its duties include the determination of the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee, as well as their specific remuneration packages, including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
In determining such policy, the Committee is expected to take into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
The composition of the Committee and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website at www.
Key Principles of the Remuneration Policy Ferrexpos remuneration policy is designed to help attract, motivate and retain talented executives to help drive the future growth and performance of the business.
The policy aims to: align executive and shareholder interests: link a high proportion of remuneration to performance: reward based on a balanced portfolio of performance measures e. g. relative Total Shareholder Return TSR outperformance of sector peers, annual business priorities, financial and operational targets and individual performance : and provide competitive rewards assessed against the relevant market to attract, motivate and retain talented executives.
In determining the Companys remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account the particular business context of the Group, the industry segment, the geography of its operations, the relevant talent market for each executive, the location of the executive and remuneration in that local market and best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee will continue to give full consideration to the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration and to the guidance of investor relations bodies.
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Directors, which incorporates minor changes to the policy that shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM, which principally aim to provide us with additional flexibility to respond to changes in the business environment over the life of the next policy, including: the ability to offer cash in lieu of pension up to 15% of salary: introduction of malus and clawback provisions on Executive Director STIP and LTIP awards.
Clawback will apply for two years after the payment of an STIP or vesting of an LTIP award: the ability to defer a portion of any earned STIP award in cash or shares: currently, Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding of equivalent value to a years base salary: the ability to include a holding period on vested LTIP awards for Executive Directors in the future.
We intend to introduce a two-year holding period on vested LTIP shares from awards granted in 2018 onwards: the ability for LTIP awards to be denominated in cash or shares.
Executive Director Policy Table This section of our report summarises the policy for each component of Executive Director remuneration, which will apply from the date of the 2017 AGM to both current and future Executive Directors but see also Remuneration policy for new appointments below.
The Chief Executive takes a salary of US$240,000 per year which is all paid to charity net of applicable income taxes with no performance related pay as described earlier in this report, and his incentive is derived entirely from his shareholding in the Company.
At the current time, most of these policies below, other than those related to benefits and pensions, are therefore not applicable to the current CEO and apply exclusively at the current time to the CFO.
The principles below are however also considered as a framework and applied where appropriate to the members of the Executive Committee.
62 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed Pay Base Salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, Base salary increases are applied in Business and, where relevant for To attract and retain talent with reference to the individuals role, line with the outcome of the review current Executive Directors, individual by ensuring base salaries are experience and performance: business which will not exceed 5% p. a. or if performance are considerations competitive in the market in performance: salary levels for equivalent higher the applicable inflation rate on in setting base salary.
which the individual is employed.
posts at relevant comparators: cost an annualised basis over the period of living and inflation: and the range over which this policy applies.
Increases of salary increases applying across above this level may be applied where the Group.
appropriate to reflect changes in the scale, scope and responsibility attaching to the role and market comparability.
Pension Executive Directors will, as appropriate, The employer contribution will be a Not performance related.
be offered membership of a scheme percentage of pensionable salary and which complies with relevant legislation associated benefits excluding variable where necessary, additional pension pay.
The employer contribution will entitlements will be provided or cash normally be up to 15% of salary subject in lieu of pension.
to compliance with local statutory requirements.
Benefits Benefits are paid to comply with Benefits values vary by role and Not performance related.
Competitive in the market in which local statutory requirements and as eligibility and cost are reviewed the individual is employed.
applicable to attract or retain executives periodically.
Increases to the existing of a suitable calibre.
They include life benefits will not normally exceed insurance and medical insurance.
Increases above appropriate, additional benefits may this level may be applied where be offered including, but not limited appropriate to reflect changes in role, to, allowances for accommodation, scope, location and responsibility.
relocation, tax advice and legal advice.
Variable Pay Short-Term Incentive Plan Targets are set at the start of the year Maximum opportunity of 150% Performance related.
STIP against which performance is measured.
The target opportunity To focus management on The Committee determines the extent is up to two-thirds of maximum and Performance measures can include delivery of annual business to which these have been achieved.
the threshold opportunity is up to financial, non-financial and personal priorities which tie into the longThe Committee can exercise discretion one-third of maximum.
achievement criteria measured over term strategic objectives of the to adjust the formulaic outcome within one financial year.
business which include but the limits of the plan for factors outside are not limited to: developing of management control where it believes Details of the performance measures the reserve base, increasing the outcome is not truly reflective and weightings for the STIP in 2016 are production, reducing costs, of performance or in line with overall set out in Part B under STIP framework reducing the risk profile of Company performance.
for 2017, which is consistent with the the business, expanding the 2016 framework.
customer portfolio, expanding Payments are typically made in cash, geographically.
however, the Committee may determine The Committee has discretion to that a portion of the bonus be deferred make changes in future years to reflect and be in the form of cash or shares.
the evolving nature of the strategic imperatives that may be facing Malus and clawback provisions will apply theCompany.
in the event of a material misstatement of results, material calculation error or gross misconduct.
Long-Term Incentive Plan The LTIP framework was approved by The LTIP provides for annual awards Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to LTIP shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
of performance shares, options or the Companys relative TSR against To motivate participants to deliver cash up to an aggregate limit of 200% a comparator group over a period of appropriate longer-term returns To the extent that an LTIP award of salary in normal circumstances.
at least three years and continued to shareholders by encouraging vests, this will include the applicable This limit may be exceeded in employment.
In addition, for any shares them to see themselves not just dividends on the shares earned during exceptional circumstances but to vest, the Committee must be satisfied as managers, but as part-owners the vesting period.
will not exceed 300% of salary.
that the recorded TSR is a fair reflection of the business.
of Ferrexpos underlying business The Remuneration Committee has The threshold opportunity is 20% performance.
discretion to introduce a two-year of maximum.
holding period to Executive Directors Details of the performance targets vested LTIP shares for future awards.
for the LTIP are set out in Part B under LTIP granted in 2016.
These targets Malus and clawback provisions remain consistent with 2017. will apply in the event of a material misstatement of results, material The Committee reviews the LTIP calculation error or gross misconduct.
performance conditions, in advance of granting each LTIP cycle.
Over the life of this policy relative TSR will be retained as the primary performance measure.
FERREXPO PLC 63 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Rationale for Performance Measures The STIP is based on performance categories that are key to delivering on our long-term strategy.
Performance measures are set at the beginning of the financial year to reflect business priorities and other corporate objectives, and can include financial, non-financial and personal achievement criteria.
Performance targets are set at such a level as to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic priorities and economic environment in a given performance period.
The STIP target is based on the annual budget approved by the Board.
Where appropriate, the Committee sets a performance zone Threshold to Stretch around the target, which it considers provides an appropriate degree of stretch challenge and an incentive to outperform.
The Committee believes that using multiple targets for the purposes of the STIP provides for a balanced assessment of performance over the year.
For the LTIP, the Committee believes that relative TSR is the most objective external measure of the Companys success over the longer term.
Relative TSR helps align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders by incentivising share price growth and, in the Committees view, provides an objective measure of long-term success.
The Committee has discretion to review the comparator index if any of the constituent companies is affected by corporate events such as mergers and acquisitions.
The Committee also reviews the constituents and their weightings prior to the start of each LTIP cycle in order to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Details of the comparator group will be set out in Part B of the Remuneration Report for the year immediately following the year in which the grant is made.
With effect from the grant of 2010 LTIP awards which vested in 2013, Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee are encouraged, in line with the practice among FTSE listed companies, to build up a holding of shares of equivalent value to a years base salary in the case of Executive Directors or six months base salary for other members of the Executive Committee.
Executives are encouraged to retain their vested LTIP shares on an after-tax basis until the applicable guideline level is achieved.
Remuneration of Senior Executives Below the Board The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior executives below the Board is consistent with that of the Executive Directors.
Senior executives participate in the LTIP with the same performance measures applied as for the CFO.
Long-term incentive awards may be granted to participants below the Board without performance conditions, for example, if it is considered necessary to attract executives of the appropriate calibre.
Payments Resulting from Existing Awards The Executive Director concerned is eligible to receive payment resulting from the vesting of any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report.
Non-executive Director Policy Table This section of our report summarises the policy for each component of Non-executive Director remuneration.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fees To attract and retain talent by ensuring Annual fee for the Chairman.
Changes to Non-executive Director Not performance related.
fees are market competitive and reflect fees are applied in line with the the time commitment required of NonAnnual base fee for Non-executive outcome of the review.
executive Directors in different roles.
Additional fees are paid for additional responsibilities, for example, The maximum aggregate fees, per for acting as the Senior Independent annum, for all Non-executive Directors Director and the Chairmen of allowed by the Companys Articles the Committees as well as for of Association is 5,000,000. representation on subsidiary Boards.
Fees are reviewed from time to time, taking into account the time commitment, responsibilities, and fees paid by comparable companies, and also taking into consideration geography and risk profile.
Additional fees may be payable to Non-executive Directors in exceptional circumstances, e. g. if there is a material increase in time commitment.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive plans, or receive benefits or any additional elements of remuneration to that stated above.
64 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Pay-for-Performance: Scenario Analysis The CEO does not participate in any incentive plan, for the reasons stated in the introduction to this report.
Under all scenarios, therefore, his remuneration, which is donated to charity, remains as set out in Section B of this report.
For the CFO who is the remaining Executive Director, the graph below provides estimates of the potential future reward opportunity and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, Target and Maximum.
CFO CHF 000s 46% 51% 3% Maximum 1,922 2,019 57% 41% 2% Target 1,543 1,574 100% Below 892 892 threshold 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Fixed STIP LTIP In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions have been made: Scenario STIP LTIP Fixed pay 1 Maximum Maximum STIP 150% of salary Performance warrants full vesting Base salary, pension, 1 Target On target STIP 100% of salary Performance warrants threshold vesting 20% and benefits as at 1 January 2017 Below threshold No STIP payable Threshold not achieved nil 1 Excludes increase in value arising from share price growth.
Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy and current practice, applied to the base salary in force at 1 January 2017.
For the STIP, the amounts illustrated for the CFO are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2017.
For the LTIP, awards do not normally vest until the end of three years following the beginning of the year in which they were granted.
The LTIP award opportunity for the CFO above, is assumed to be of similar monetary value as in 2016.
However, it should be noted that the Committee reviews the efficacy of the LTIP prior to grant each year which could affect the LTIP awards made to the CFO in 2017.
Remuneration Policy for New Appointments The Committees approach to setting remuneration for new Executive Directors is to ensure that the Companys pay arrangements are in the best interests of Ferrexpo and its shareholders.
To do this, the Company takes into account internal pay levels, the external market, location of the executive and remuneration received at the previous employer.
The Committee reserves discretion to offer appropriate benefit arrangements, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role.
Variable pay awards excluding any potential buy-out awards, described below for a newly appointed Executive Director will be as described in the policy table, subject to the same maximum opportunities.
Different performance measures may be set initially for the STIP and LTIP awards, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial year at which he or she joined, and subject to the rules of the plan.
The rationale will be clearly explained in each case.
In addition, the Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out existing incentive awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In such cases the compensatory award would typically be on a like-for-like basis with similar time to vesting, performance measures and likelihood of the targets being met.
The fair value of the buy-out award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
To facilitate such a buy-out the Committee may grant a bespoke award under the Listing Rules exemption available for this purpose.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director.
FERREXPO PLC 65 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In every case, the Board will pay both the appropriate but also the necessary rate of pay to attract an executive who in the view of the Board will contribute to shareholder value.
The approach to setting Non-executive Director fees on appointment is in line with the approach taken for the fee review set out in the Non-executive Director policy table earlier in this report, and will also take into account fee levels for existing Non-executive Directors.
Details of Executive Directors Service Contracts The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Ferrexpo AG, a Group company the employer.
The Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors at 12 months or less, which reduces the likelihood of having to pay excessive compensation in the event of poor performance.
The principal terms of the Executive Directors service contracts which have no fixed term not otherwise set out in this report are as follows: save in circumstances justifying summary termination, Mr Zhevagos service contract with the employer is terminable on not less than six months notice to be given by the employer or by Mr Zhevago, and Mr Mawes service contract with the employer is terminable on not less than 12 months notice to be given by the employer or not less than six months notice to be given by Mr Mawe.
Notice period Executive Director Position Date of contract From employer From employee K Zhevago CEO 1 November 2008 6 months 6 months C Mawe CFO 7 January 2008 12 months 6 months Under the service contracts, the Executive Directors are entitled to 25 working days paid holiday per year.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain a provision exercisable at the option of the employer to pay an amount on early termination of employment equal to the respective notice period.
If the employer elects to make such a payment which in practice it will do if the speed and certainty afforded by this provision are thought to be in the best interests of shareholders, the Executive Director will be entitled under his contract to receive all components of his base salary, accrued but untaken holiday and expenses for the extent of the notice period, including for Mr Mawe a pro-rated performance-related payment under the STIP where the employer terminates employment, which reflects the practice in the Group at the time when Mr Mawe was appointed.
Mr Mawes entitlement to a pro-rated performance-related payment where the employer terminates his employment will not be replicated in the service contracts of future Executive Directors.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, any employee including the Executive Directors may have additional statutory and or common law rights to certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
Policy for Loss of Office Payments The following principles apply when determining payments for loss of office for the Executive Directors and any new Executive Directors.
The employer will take account of all relevant circumstances on a case by case basis including but not limited to : the sums stipulated in the service contract including base salary during his or her notice period, accrued but untaken holiday, and allowances benefits but excluding STIP, save in the case of Mr Mawe : whether the Executive Director has presided over an orderly handover: the contribution of the Executive Director to the success of the Company during his or her tenure: and the need to compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have.
The Company may, for example, if the Committee considers it to be necessary: enter into agreements with Executive Directors which may include the provision of legal fees or the settlement of liabilities in return for a single one-off payment or subsequent payments subject to appropriate conditions: terminate employment other than in accordance with the terms of the contract bearing in mind the potential consequences of doing so : or enter into new arrangements with the departing Executive Director for example, consultancy arrangements.
If the individual is considered a good leaver e. g. for reasons of death, ill-health, injury or disability: his or her employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group: the business or part of the business in which he or she is employed being transferred to a transferee which is not a member of the Group: or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits any outstanding LTIP awards will be pro-rated for time and performance conditions will be measured.
The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions as permitted by the relevant plan rules on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances, in order to ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
In considering the exercise of discretion as set out above, the Committee will take into account all relevant circumstances which it considers are in the best interests of the Company: for example, ensuring an orderly handover, performance of the executive during his tenure as Director, performance of the Company as a whole and perception of the payment amongst the shareholders, general public and employee base.
66 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 In the event of a change of control, the vesting period under the LTIP ends and awards may be exercised or released to the extent to which the performance conditions have, in the Committees opinion, been achieved up to that time.
Pro-rating for time applies but the Committee has discretion to allow awards to be exercised or released to a greater or lesser extent if it considers it appropriate having regard to the circumstances of the transaction and the Companys performance up to the date of the transaction.
It is the Committees policy to review contractual arrangements prior to new appointments in the light of developments in best practice.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
External Appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other quoted companies, provided that they have obtained the consent of both the Chairman of the Board and which should be notified to the Board.
No external directorships of quoted companies are currently held by Executive Directors.
Details of Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-executive Directors have each entered into a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Non-executive Directors are each appointed for an initial period of three years, and their appointments may then be renewed on a three-yearly basis, subject to re-election when appropriate by the Company in general meeting: in 2011 the Company adopted the practice of annual re-election of all Non-executive Directors.
The key terms of current letters of appointment are as follows: Non-executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of re-election S Lucas Chairman 19 May 2016 Annual re-election O Baring Non-executive Director 1 December 2007 Annual re-election M Field Non-executive Director 10 March 2016 Annual re-election B Nacken Non-executive Director 1 August 2014 Annual re-election V Lisovenko Non-executive Director 28 November 2016 Annual re-election M Reilly Non-executive Director 27 May 2015 Annual re-election Employee Context In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions throughout the Group.
Prior to the annual pay review and throughout the year, the Committee receives reports from the CEO setting out the circumstances surrounding, and potential changes to, broader employee pay.
The CEO consults as appropriate with key employees and the relevant professionals throughout the Group.
This forms part of the basis for determining increases in Executive Director and senior executive remuneration which also takes into consideration factors detailed earlier in this report.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Committee takes into consideration views expressed by shareholders regarding remuneration, either at the AGM, or by correspondence, or at one-to-one or group meetings and shareholder events or otherwise by considering these views at the relevant Committee meetings which are subsequently reported to and considered by the Board as a whole.
The Committee takes shareholder feedback into careful consideration when reviewing remuneration and regularly reviews the Directors remuneration policy in the context of key institutional shareholder guidelines and best practice.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to making any major changes to its executive remuneration structure.
Details of shareholder consultations carried out during the year are included below in Part B of this Remuneration Report.
FERREXPO PLC 67 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PART B: REMUNERATION IN 2016 The following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
Committee Membership in 2016 The Committee comprises four independent Non-executive Directors.
Miklos Salamon was the Chairman of the Committee until he retired from the Board in May 2016 when he was succeeded by Bert Nacken.
The other members are Oliver Baring, Mary Reilly since July 2016 and Vitalii Lisovenko since November 2016.
Wolfram Kuoni stepped down from the Committee at the beginning of June 2016.
Steve Lucas served on the Committee from his joining the Board in May until his appointment as Chairman of the Board in November 2016.
The Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52.
A summary of the topics discussed at meetings in 2016 is detailed below: Review of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and remuneration of members of the Executive Committee, including salaries, STIP and LTIP policy Review of recovery provisions in relation to incentive arrangements, including practical implications of applying them to executives employed in various jurisdictions in which the Group operates Review of incentive outcomes Review of feedback from 2016 AGM voting season Review of general market considerations surrounding executive remuneration packages and structure Performance evaluation of the Committee The CEO and the Group Head of Human Resources usually attend meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No Director is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Advisers The Committee retains Kepler, a brand of Mercer, to provide advice on remuneration policy, with particular emphasis on the structure of long-term incentives for senior management and the provision of benchmark reports on executive and non-executive remuneration.
Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code of conduct.
To help ensure a consistent approach to remuneration across the Group, Kepler also provided advice to the Company in respect of matters relating to the remuneration of other employees.
Other than remuneration advice, no other services were provided by Kepler.
Keplers parent company, Mercer, advised the Group on international healthcare plans.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work carried out for the Committee in 2016 totalled 49,500 based on time and materials.
The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers periodically and is satisfied that Kepler provide independent and objective remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with Ferrexpo which may impair its independence.
The CEO and the Group Head of Human Resources provide guidance to the Committee on remuneration packages of senior executives employed by the Group but not in respect of their own remuneration.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration Audited The table below sets out in a single figure for each currency of payment the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ending 31 December 2016 and the prior year.
2 Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year accommodation allowance.
3 STIP: this is the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
Further details are provided on pages 63, 65, 70 and 71.
4 LTIP: the market value of shares that vested on performance to 31 December of the relevant year 2016: 24% vested on performance: 2015: nil vested on performance.
The market value is based on the share price on the date of vesting: 31 December 2016 of 134.50 pence.
Further details are provided on pages 63, 65, 72 and 73.
5 Pension: Valued in accordance with sections 230 to 232 of the Finance Act 2004 for cash balance arrangement schemes.
Other formulae such as 20 times the increase in the value of accrued benefit over the year are not considered appropriate since this is not a classic Defined Benefit scheme see Pensions and other Benefits below, and for expatriate staff the pension is repaid as a lump sum on leaving the country.
The table below sets out in a single figure for each currency of payment the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ending 31 December 2016 and the prior year.
2 Steve Lucas joined the Board on 19 May 2016 and was appointed Chairman on 28 November 2016.
He received a time pro-rated Non-executive Director base fee plus in recognition of his additional work as Chairman designate a pro-rated additional fee of US$40,000 p. a. from 19 May to 27 November 2016, and the Chairman fee of US$440,000 p. a. from 28 November 2016.
3 Oliver Baring receives an additional fee of US$60,000 p. a. in total for his roles as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Nominations Committee until June 2016 and Chairman of the Committee of Independent Directors.
4 Sir Malcolm Field joined the Board on 10 March 2016 and received a time pro-rated additional fee of US$40,000 p. a. for his role as Chairman of the Bank F&C Review Committee since appointment on 10 March 2016.
He also received a fee of US$74,865, calculated on a time spent basis, in respect of work carried out on the Bank F&C review.
5 Mary Reilly joined the Board on 27 May 2015 and received a time pro-rated additional fee of US$40,000 p. a. for her role as Chairman of the Audit Committee since appointment on 1 November 2015.
6 Bert Nacken received a time pro-rated additional fee of US$40,000 p. a. for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee since appointment on 19 May 2016.
7 Vitalii Lisovenko joined the Board on 28 November 2016.
8 Michael Abrahams stepped down from the Board on 28 November 2016.
He received payment of US$18,333 under a consultancy agreement with the Company to cover work relating to the handover of his responsibilities as Chairman of the Board, which ran from his retirement from the Board until 31 December 2016.
9 Wolfram Kuoni received, in addition to the Non-executive Directors base fee until his retirement from the Board on 28 November 2016, additional fees of US$40,000 p. a. for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee until 31 October 2015 and US$75,000 for his role as a Non-executive Director and as Chairman of Ferrexpo AG.
10 Miklos Salamon stepped down from the Board on 19 May 2016, and received a time pro-rated additional fee of US$40,000 p. a. for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from appointment on 1 November 2015 to 19 May 2016.
11 David Frauman joined the Board on 26 October 2015 and stepped down from the Board on 10 March 2016: he also provided consultancy services to the Company, and received fees in relation to this of 105,768 in 2016.
FERREXPO PLC 69 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Implementation of Remuneration Policy Salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to the individuals role, experience and performance: business performance: salary levels at relevant comparators: and the range of salary increases applying across the Group.
During the year the Committee considered pay levels against international mining comparators and other FTSE-listed companies of similar size with executives based in similar geographic locations.
Following this review the Committee decided not to increase salaries for 2017.
Mr Zhevagos salary, which he donates to Ukrainian charities, also remained unchanged at US$240,000.
Base salary at: Executive Director Position 1 January 2017 1 January 2016 Increase K Zhevago CEO US$240,000 US$240,000 0% C Mawe CFO CHF 651,525 CHF651,525 0% Pensions and Other Benefits Audited The Group does not operate a separate pension scheme for Executive Directors.
Mr Mawe and Mr Zhevago are members of the Ferrexpo AG pension plan which is a mandatory insurance scheme under Swiss law, provided for all employees of Ferrexpo AG, to which the Company contributes an average of 6% of their annual base salaries.
Increase in value for 2016 Total cash Normal less Directors value at end retirement contribution of 2016 date CHF000 CHF000 K Zhevago 7.1.
27 59 692 No additional benefit is receivable should an Executive Director retire early.
Mr Zhevago is entitled to, but in 2016 made no claim in respect of, furnished accommodation in Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe if necessary for the performance of his duties, and up to US$5,000 for professional tax advice.
Ferrexpo AG provides Mr Mawe with CHF167,790 of accommodation allowance per annum which is subject to periodic review in line with CPI inflation.
Pension and other benefits will operate as set out in the Executive Director Remuneration Policy set out earlier in the report.
2016 STIP Outcome Audited The STIP framework for 2016 was in line with the principles of the existing Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014AGM.
The Company, as a single product producer of iron ore pellets with a focused customer portfolio, sets its performance targets to ensure that the CFO and senior executives are motivated to enhance shareholder value in the short term but also in the long-term.
Key performance targets for 2016 were set at the start of the year for the CFO and senior executives and were weighted to reflect the contribution of the individual to the achievement of that target.
Targets during the year related to financial performance, operational performance, safety behavioural safety initiatives and improvements in lost-time accident statistics, and cost improvement activities, as well as personal targets relating to operational and financial management objectives.
In last years report detailed targets and objectives were not disclosed prospectively as they were considered to be commercially sensitive at that time.
We indicated that retrospective disclosure of these targets would be given in this years report where this is no longer the case, and this is included in the table below.
Financial and operational targets were normalised, as in previous years, to take account of market and raw material cost price developments and mining plans as appropriate, to the extent that these were not under the direct control of management.
The level of achievement against each of the targets for 2016 as determined by the Committee for the CFO is summarised below.
70 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Weighting Bonus for CFO Threshold Target Stretch Scorecard Max as a % of awarded as a KPI Measures target % 50% 100% 150% outcome Assessment salary % of salary EBITDA before special items Financial US$ 12.5% 291 341 391 375 Above target 18.8% 16.7% NOPAT US$ 5.0% 109 128 146 198 Above stretch 7.5% 7.5% Operational Production volume Mt 2.5% 11.3 11.8 12.0 11.1 Below threshold 3.8% 0.0% Processed volume Fe65% % t 2.5% 85 90 95 96 Above stretch 3.8% 3.8% Total movement cost US$ t 7.5% 1.43 1.40 1.30 1.39 Above target 11.3% 10.1% Sales and Seaborne Freight per wmt Marketing compared to C3 US$ t 5.0% 5.0 3.5 2.0 3.3 Above target 7.5% 5.4% Realised DAP FOB Price US$ 2.5% 0.0 0.5 1.0 0.0 Threshold 3.8% 1.0% Sales volume Mt 5.0% 11.4 11.9 12.1 12.1 Stretch 7.5% 7.5% CSR and Safety standards CSR safety programme implementation % 5.0% 75 100 125 100 Target 7.5% 5.0% Zero fatalities LTIFR 5.0% 0.5 1.1 1.4 0 Below threshold 7.5% 0.0% Operational Concentrator utilisation % 2.5% 1 2 5 1 Threshold 3.8% 1.3% improvement Reduced blasting unit cost 2.5% 1.5 3 6 3 Target 3.8% 2.5% projects UAH t Effective Organisation Design 2.5% 600 800 1000 600 Threshold 3.8% 1.3% Personal Deleverage & maintain liquidity 15.0% Stretch 22.5% 22.5% objectives Judgment against quantitative Reduce working capital 15.0% Between target 22.5% 17.1% and qualitative personal objectives and stretch set by the Committee Enhance credit rating & banking 10.0% relationships Target 15.0% 10.0% Total 100.0% 150% 112% 1 LTIFR number of work-related lost time injuries per million man hours not including contractors.
Target STIP opportunity as a percentage of salary may be varied as appropriate to take account of changes in role, responsibility or scope.
No payment is made under the STIP if performance is below threshold.
For the CFO, threshold performance earns a bonus of 50% of salary, on-target performance 100%, and stretch performance 150%.
The Committee considered the CFOs personal performance, as well as Financial, Production, CSR and Safety, Sales and Marketing and the achievement of Operational improvement targets during 2016.
Taking into account his overall performance and achievement of specific personal targets relating to deleveraging the groups balance sheet and reducing working capital as well as steps taken to improve the companys credit rating and relationships with banking partners, the Committee awarded a bonus of 112% of salary to the CFO.
FERREXPO PLC 71 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STIP Framework for 2017 The STIP framework for 2017 is in line with the principles of the existing Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and 2016 framework.
Financial and Operational targets, including cost reduction measures and personal KPIs continue to be set as in previous years.
Mr Mawes 2017 STIP opportunity is 150% for maximum performance, and 100% of salary for target performance.
The measures and weightings for the STIP in 2017 are shown in the table below.
Due to commercial sensitivity, details of performance targets will be disclosed retrospectively and in certain instances will be aggregated.
The CEO does not participate in the STIP.
Weighting for KPI CFO Financial EBITDA, NOPAT 20.0% Operational Production, sales volume 22.5% Safety and LTIFR 10.0% Cost reduction and improvement initiatives 7.5% Personal 40.0% Total 100% 2014 LTIP Award Vesting Audited The performance period for the 2014 LTIP awards ended on 31 December 2016.
The 2014 LTIP rewarded TSR outperformance of a tailored comparator group, with 20% of maximum vesting for TSR performance in line with the index and with full vesting for TSR outperformance of 8% p. a.
The constituents of the comparator group are set out on page 73.
Alcoa underwent a demerger during the performance period and was dropped from the single commodity miners.
Ferrexpos TSR performance relative to weighted index was assessed by Kepler.
From 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016, Ferrexpos TSR outperformed Index TSR by 0.4% p. a. resulting in 24% of the 2014 LTIP awards vesting.
The Committee has considered the Companys overall performance and determined that the recorded TSR outperformance was a fair reflection of Ferrexpos underlying performance over the performance period and has therefore determined in accordance with the rules of the plan that 24% of the 2014 LTIP awards vested.
LTIP Granted in 2016 Audited The 2016 LTIP grant to Mr Mawe is outlined below.
Vesting for minimum performance End of Number of Face value Face value % of performance Date of grant shares % salary maximum period 1 1 C Mawe 20.04.16 150,000 44,700 10% 20% 31.12.18 1 Based on average share price for the last three months of 2015, 29.8 pence and average exchange rate of CHF1 0.680.
72 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 The constituents of the Index for the last three cycles are summarised in the table below: 1 2014 2015 2016 Focused iron ore miners Weighting 50% 60% 60% African Minerals Assore Atlas Iron Cliffs Fortescue Metals Kumba Iron Ore Mount Gibson Global diversified miners Weighting 40% 40% 40% Anglo American BHP Billiton Rio Tinto Vale Xstrata Glencore 2 Single commodity emerging market miners Weighting 10% 0% 0% 1 The Committee reviewed the constituents of the comparator index and their weightings prior to the grant of 2015 LTIP awards and decided to increase the weighting on the focused iron ore miners from 50% to 60% by dropping the single commodity emerging market miners component from the comparator group, increasing the weighting on our closest comparators to improve the relevance of the benchmark and aid simplicity.
2 Single commodity emerging market miners include: African Rainbow Minerals, Alcoa, Alumina, Aluminium Corp of China, Antofagasta, Boliden, Eramet, First Quantum Minerals, Freeport McMoRan, Industrias Penoles, Katanga Mining, KAZ Minerals PLC, KGHM Polska Miedz, Lundin Mining, Norilsk, OZ Minerals, Peabody Energy, Teck Cominco, Vedanta Resources.
TSR is calculated on a common currency basis to ensure that comparisons with international comparators listed overseas are fair, with a TSR share price averaging period of six months to help improve the comparison of the management long-term incentive in relation to potential short-term movements in Ferrexpos share price or the share price of comparator companies.
No performance shares will vest if Ferrexpos TSR underperforms the comparator index.
20% will vest if Ferrexpos TSR is equal to Index TSR: full vesting will occur only if Ferrexpos TSR exceeds the Index by at least 8% p. a. : there will be straight-line pro rata vesting in between those points.
In addition, for any shares to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the recorded TSR is a fair reflection of Ferrexpos underlying business performance.
Dividends accrue on performance shares over the vesting period and are paid on shares that vest.
LTIP Framework for 2017 This Directors Remuneration Report is published prior to the grant date of awards under the LTIP, which are normally made in April.
In advance of grant, the Committee will review the efficacy of the LTIP to ensure that it remains relevant.
Details of awards made in 2017 will be set out in next years Annual Report on remuneration.
FERREXPO PLC 73 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive Directors including the Chairman The Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed each year in light of the time commitment and level of involvement that Non-executive Directors are required to devote to the activities of the Board and its Committees, market practice, and surveys by Kepler.
Fees payable were reviewed in 2016 and reduced, effective 1 September 2016, as follows: From Before 1 September 2016 1 September 2016 Role Annual fee Annual fee Chairman fee US$440,000 US$500,000 Non-executive Director base fee US$135,000 US$150,000 Committee Chairman fee US$40,000 US$40,000 Senior Independent Director fee US$60,000 US$60,000 1 With effect from 1 January 2017 the Committee Chairman fee has been reduced to US$35,000 p. a.
Directors Shareholdings Audited Total interests of the Directors in office and connected persons as at 31 December 2016: At 31 December At 31 December 2016 2015 1 K Zhevago 296,077,944 296,077,944 C Mawe 238,217 238,217 S Lucas 0 O Baring 20,130 20,130 2 I Mitiukov 37,679 37,679 B Nacken 20,000 20,000 M Reilly 0 0 V Lisovenko 0 M Field 0 2 M Abrahams 57,417 57,417 2 W Kuoni 34,026 34,026 2 M Salamon 100,000 100,000 2 D Frauman 0 0 1 Mr Zhevago is interested in these shares as a beneficiary of the Minco Trust, which is the ultimate shareholder of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. which owns 296,077,944 shares in the Company.
2 As at date of retirement from the Board.
Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee are encouraged to build up a holding of shares of equivalent value to a years salary in the case of Executive Directors or six months salary for other members of the Executive Committee.
Executives will be encouraged to retain their vested LTIP shares on an after tax basis until the applicable guideline level is achieved.
As at 21 March 2017, being a date not more than one month prior to the date of notice of AGM, the Executive Directors shareholdings are as follows: Shareholding Current 2 requirement Subject to shareholding 1 % salary Owned outright performance % salary Guideline met?
Further details of shares subject to performance are provided below.
2 Based only on shares owned outright at 31 December 2016 and share price of 134.50 pence.
74 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Details of LTIP awards held by Mr Mawe which are subject to performance are provided below.
2 This award has vested 24% under the TSR performance condition descibed above.
At the date of vesting 31 December 2016 the market price of a share was 134.5 pence.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors from the end of the period under review to 21 March 2017.
Total outstanding i. e. awarded but not yet vested awards granted under the LTIP as at the end of 2016 are equivalent to 0.23% of issued share capital.
Exit Payments Made in Year Audited No payments for loss of office were paid to or receivable by any Director or former Director in the financial year.
Payments to past Directors Audited Lucio Genovese and Wolfram Kuoni retired from the Board on 1 August 2014 and 28 November 2016 respectively.
They remain respectively a Non-executive Director and the Chairman of Ferrexpo AG for which they respectively receive fees of US$40,000 p. a. and US$75,000 p. a.
As disclosed above, Michael Abrahams received payment of US$18,333 under a consultancy agreement with the Company to cover work relating to the handover of his responsibilities as Chairman of the Board, which ran from 28 November until 31 December 2016.
No other payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Percentage Change in CEO Remuneration Compared to Other Employees The table below sets out the percentage increase in salary, taxable benefits, and annual bonus for the CEO between 2015 and 2016 compared to that for other employees.
Other 1 CEO employees Salary 0% 0% Taxable benefits 0% 0% Annual bonus n a 2.1% 1 Refers to senior executives.
Relative Importance of Spending on Pay The table below shows Ferrexpos dividend and total employee pay expenditure this includes pension and variable pay, including STIP and fair value of LTIP, but not social security for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, and the percentage change.
US$ million 2016 2015 Year-on-year change All-employee remuneration 46 49 -6% 1 Distributions to shareholders 40 19 111% 1 Includes dividends and share buybacks.
FERREXPO PLC 75 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Comparison of Company Performance and Executive Director Pay The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Ferrexpos shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 250 and All-share indices or in the shares of the LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 250 and All-share indices are chosen because Ferrexpo was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 for most of the period.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the 8 years to 31 December 2016 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Ferrexpo 2016 LTIP Index FTSE250 Index FTSE All Share Index Chief Executive Officers Pay US$000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 K Zhevago Single figure total remuneration 322 341 348 291 243 243 243 243 STIP vesting % max K Zhevago did not participate in the STIP or the LTIP.
LTIP vesting % max Statement of Shareholder Voting The following table shows the results of the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM and advisory vote on the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Policy at 2014 AGM 530m 99.8% 1.2m 0.2% 2.9m 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration at 2016 AGM 341m 70.8% 141m 29.2% 1.6m The Committee notes that the vote on the Remuneration Report mirrored the voting on the Report and Accounts and therefore does not believe that it gave specific evidence of dissatisfaction with the Remuneration Report that would require changes in policy or execution.
As stated below the Committee had consulted with shareholders about the changes to policy proposed at the 2017 AGM.
Shareholder Consultation The Remuneration Committee wrote to the Companys largest shareholders in December 2016 outlining the proposed minor changes to the remuneration policy, as outlined earlier in this report.
The feedback we received was broadly in favour of the changes.
Other transactions involving Directors are set out in Note 39 related parties to the financial statements.
This report was approved by the Board on 21 March 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board BERT NACKEN CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 76 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
