Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report has been split into two sections: the Directors Remuneration Policy, which sets out the policy on the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors for the next three years, and an Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses the directors remuneration for the year ended 31st December 2016.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is intended to be operated from the start of the 2017 financial year and take formal effect from the 2017 Annual General Meeting and remain in place for three years.
Fidessa will be seeking shareholders support for the Directors Remuneration Report including the Directors Remuneration Policy at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors remuneration policy The Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance.
This should be at a comparable level to directors and senior managers in similar companies and at a level that will challenge, attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver long-term success against Fidessas strategy and value to shareholders.
Fidessas remuneration philosophy is that a significant proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior managers should be performance-related, so that management is clearly focused on financial performance.
Whilst the annual variable pay component is focused on financial performance in the year, the long-term share-based incentives are focused on longer term growth and share price performance measured over multiple years.
The focus on sustainable financial performance avoids excessive short-term risk taking, encourages consistent performance over multiple years and aligns remuneration with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
It aims to deliver success, value and good growth over the long-term whilst balancing the extent of caution and risk.
The individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to executive directors are set out in the table below.
Executive directors remuneration policy Salary Executive directors salaries are normally reviewed with effect from 1st January each year.
When setting salary levels the Committee takes into account an individuals experience, knowledge and performance in the role, business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Committees remuneration advisers.
Maintaining this alignment is one of the factors the Committee takes into account when setting salary levels.
This approach should assist in the recruitment, motivation and retention of high performing individuals.
In addition, the Committee considers the salary increases being provided to Fidessa employees over recent years and the period under review to take account of potential sensitivity of salary increases to executive directors.
Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Benefits Benefits are very limited as the Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Current benefits include life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
The benefits offered may vary during the policy period but they shall not exceed those benefits generally offered to employees.
Any reasonable business expenses and any tax thereon that are deemed to be taxable benefits by HMRC may also be reimbursed by the Company.
For any international recruitment and or overseas assignment benefits may be tailored to comply with local market legislation, regulation or cultural norms.
Annual The purpose of the annual variable pay award is to reward the performance of the executive directors variable pay based on an annual business target s. It is currently based on financial performance measures which are reviewed annually and will be aligned to the Groups strategic objectives at that time.
The Committee may revise the performance criteria in the event of an acquisition or disposal.
The applicable sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration sets out details of the performance measures and the operation of the annual variable pay award.
Should the Committee impose nonfinancial performance measures the annual variable pay award will still be primarily based on financial performance measures.
To be consistent with other tiers of management, annual variable pay award is currently paid in two instalments, interim and final payments being paid after the half year and final results are announced, respectively.
The proportion of the variable pay award payable as an interim award is around one third of the anticipated final award.
In the unlikely event that the overall annual variable pay award is less than that already paid as an interim award, the excess will be clawed back.
This directly aligns the annual variable pay award with financial performance, whilst at the same time avoids rewarding for poor performance.
A component of the annual variable pay award may be deferred in shares for three years, subject to continued employment, through the use of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP : thus encouraging a longer term focus.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on deferred annual variable pay awards at the time at which the award vests.
The Committee will take into consideration the executive directors shareholdings and existing long-term share-based incentives when determining whether deferral of a proportion of an annual variable payment is appropriate or not.
The maximum annual variable pay award is capped at 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for any other executive director.
The minimum percentage of salary payable at threshold is 0%.
Up to 50% of the annual variable pay award will normally be deferred under the DABP.
Annual variable pay is subject to clawback and withholding provisions.
Long-term Long-term incentives are an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined with incentives other forms of remuneration.
Such incentives are also key to aligning long-term remuneration with the long-term interests of shareholders.
These incentives also encourage employee retention and sustainable performance when measured over multiple years.
The current primary long-term incentive plan the executive directors can receive awards from is the PSP which was approved by shareholders in May 2011.
Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Long-term Subject to approval by shareholders, PSP awards granted from 2017 onwards will have a vesting incentives and performance period of at least three years.
Awards with a three year vesting period will also be continued subject to an additional holding period of at least two years during which the executives directors are normally unable to sell vested awards, other than to settle any tax or NICs due on vesting of awards.
The maximum annual award under the PSP to an executive director is 500,000 based on the market value of the shares at the time of the award.
When determining the value of the grants to the executive directors, the Committee takes into account, and ensures consistency with, the awards granted to other employees.
No more than 25% of the total award may vest at threshold.
Awards will be subject to performance conditions which are aligned to the Groups longer term strategy.
The performance measures for awards in the current financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee has discretion to introduce more measures or change the weighting of measures for each years awards so that they are directly aligned with Fidessas strategic objectives for each performance period.
The Committee will normally consult with its major shareholders before implementing any major changes to the measures used.
The PSP is subject to clawback and withholding provisions.
Pension The provision of pension benefits ma y be important in helping Fidessa attr act and r ecruit high performing individuals.
Directors are eligible to participate in a money purchase pension scheme or r ec eiv e a cash alt erna tiv e allo w anc e: the e x ecutiv e dir ect ors do not curr ently participa t e in the scheme.
The maximum contribution or allowance that Fidessa may make to a directors money purchase pension scheme shall be consistent with other employees in the same location.
Fidessa currently matches the contributions of employees participating in the UK money purchase pension scheme up to a maximum of 3% of salary consistent with other UK employees.
Any such pension benefits will be taken into consideration when agreeing a directors salary so that it does not result in an inappropriate proportion of fixed remuneration.
All-employee The executive directors are also eligible to participate in all-employee share plans approved by share shareholders on the same terms as other employees.
These plans have standard terms and, where scheme applicable, are subject to timing set by HMRC from time to time.
Share Executive directors are encouraged to build a material holding in the Group to align interests ownership with shareholders.
guidelines As such and with effect from approval of this policy, executive directors are expected to retain at least 50% of shares from vested awards other than sales to settle any tax or NICs due until they hold at least 200% of salary in the case of the Chief Executive Officer and 150% in the case of the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee has discretion to allow flexibility regarding achieving the share ownership guideline in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee will review progress against the guideline on an annual basis.
Fidessa group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued When considering annual variable pay targets the Committee takes into account the directors on target earnings i. e. salary and variable pay for the year and sets a target level that is appropriately demanding taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time and the expected financial performance for the year.
The Committee chooses financial performance measures which are simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
The financial performance measures consist of a threshold and a sliding scale of payment once that threshold has been achieved up to the relevant cap, as described in the table above.
In relation to the PSP, growth in EPS has been chosen as the performance measure for the 2017 awards which the Committee considers appropriate, as the vesting of an award requires an improvement in Fidessas financial performance.
Additionally, in the event that total shareholder return is below that of the FTSE techMARK Index over the performance period, the Committee reserves the right to the scale back the awards if it feels the level of vesting based on the EPS performance is, in the opinion of the Committee, inappropriate.
Such measures are simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
When setting performance measures for the variable incentive plans in future years the Committee will consider the strategic priorities at the start of each financial year award cycle.
Targets will be set on a sliding scale where possible with a minority of the maximum potential payable for achieving threshold performance.
The target range will be set after considering a number of reference points, which may include internal financial forecasts, market consensus and a view of broader macroeconomic conditions.
The Committee will operate all incentive plans in accordance with their respective plan rules, the Listing Rules and relevant legislation where required.
Committee discretions The Committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans and executive director remuneration, the Committee will apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: if an event occurs which results in the annual variable pay award or PSP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, departure of a director etc the Committee will have the ability in limited circumstances to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings: determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment: and undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the annual variable pay award and PSP from year to year.
Fidessa group plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration policy changes The remuneration policy above remains broadly similar to that approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The material change is the increased flexibility to grant PSP awards in the future with different performance conditions previously limited to awards subject to a narrowly defined EPS measure with a target range of 8% per annum to 15% per annum.
The Committee has also formalised the share ownership guidelines and introduced post-vesting holding periods, clawback and withholding provisions and standard operational discretions into the policy.
The chart below illustrates the levels of remuneration that would be received by each executive director at different levels of performance for the first year to which the remuneration policy applies.
s s PSP PSP Chris Aspinwall Andy Skelton Variable Variable  Base Base      Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum The illustration above, which excludes benefits and awards under the SIP as they represent a very small amount, was calculated based on the following assumptions: minimum remuneration is solely fixed remuneration comprising salary the current executive directors do not receive a pension contribution from Fidessa : on target remuneration comprises fixed remuneration, annual variable pay including any deferred amount for the year calculated on principles similar to those applied in 2016 with an on target value of 90% and 47% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively and the maximum allowed PSP award, valued at the time of the award with a face value of 500,000 and a vesting of 25% during the year valued at the grant price: and maximum remuneration comprises fixed remuneration, the annual bonus including any deferred amount based on the maximum multiple of salary achievable with a maximum value of 125% and 100% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively and a PSP award, valued at the time of the award with a face value of 500,000 and 100% vesting during the year valued at the grant price.
The assumptions for on-target performance in the graph above are provided for illustrative purposes only and, in accordance with the regulations, does not make any assumptions as to future share price growth.
Fidessa group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Non-executive directors remuneration policy Fees The fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors are paid monthly and reviewed annually taking into account time commitment, responsibilities and fees paid by listed companies with a similar market capitalisation.
The Committee sets the Chairmans fee and the Board, excluding the non-executive directors, sets the non-executive directors fees.
The fee increases will take into account the outcome of the annual review and other factors, such as inflation.
Additional fees for non-executive directors for duties outside the ordinary course of their service or for taking on additional responsibilities may be payable to reflect the time and responsibility involved.
Benefits The Chairman is entitled to life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
Those benefits shall be provided on terms that are no better than those available to other employees.
Other non-executives do not normally receive benefits but may be provided with travel and or hospitality r ela t ed benefits as part of the perf ormanc e of their r oles.
In addition, all r easonable business related expenses including any tax thereon will be reimbursed.
Other The Chairman participates in the SIP on terms that are no better than those available to other employees.
Fidessa provides a matching share for each share purchased in the SIP.
The Chairmans participation in the SIP may not be greater than maximum allowed in the plan rules and or relevant legislation which may change from time to time.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to any annual variable pay and are not eligible to participate in the long-term incentive or pension schemes offered by the Company.
Payments for loss of office future directors In the event of termination, the directors will receive payments for loss of office in accordance with the termination provisions of their service contracts, letters of appointment as applicable and any discretions available to the Committee.
No executive director is entitled to receive any annual variable pay award in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
Termination provisions for new directors will be no more favourable than those set out in the current Chief Financial Officers service contract.
The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
The Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interests of the Company.
Fidessa group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Service contracts executive directors The contract of service for Chris Aspinwall was entered into on 2nd June 1997, and has been amended on three occasions in October 2003, January 2012, February 2014 to reflect current market practice.
The contract of service for Andy Skelton was entered into on 17th August 2015.
The key terms of the service contract and payments for loss of office for existing directors are shown in the table below: Provisions Summary Term and Indefinite with 12 months notice from either party.
notice Payment Salary and annual variable pay.
Benefits Private medical insurance, life insurance and ill health income protection.
Entitled and other to participate in the SIP and MSPP and receive matching shares in relation to those share plans.
entitlements Entitled but to date not participating in Fidessas defined contribution pension plan.
Clawback During the period of two years from the date on which an annual variable pay, PSP or DABP award has been paid or awarded, that award will be subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the financial results, an error in calculating performance against the conditions or if the executive director commits an act of gross misconduct.
Termination In the event of early termination, the directors may be entitled to receive payments for loss of office in accordance with the termination provisions of their service contracts and letters of appointment as applicable.
In the event of early termination, the executive director will normally be entitled to receive salary, pro-rata variable pay for the period of time worked up to the date of termination and benefits during the notice period.
If Fidessa terminates employment early, it may elect to make a payment in lieu of the required notice period, or unexpired part thereof, of salary and the cash equivalent of benefits.
The executive director may also receive a pro-rata variable pay award for the period of time worked up to the date of termination.
The executive directors are not entitled to receive any annual variable pay award in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
Where the Chief Executive continues to work during his notice period it may be beneficial to Fidessa and its shareholders for the terms of the variable pay award to be varied, for example to ensure an effective handover of responsibilities.
If such circumstances arise, the Committee in its absolute discretion may determine that different targets may apply to the Chief Executive than for other executives.
The remuneration policy relating to payments for loss of office sets out how the Committee may exercise its discretion.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Chief Executive is not entitled to receive a bonus in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
Fidessa group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Provisions Summary Termination Payments during the notice period or payments in lieu of notice will be payable in equal monthly continued instalments on the normal payroll date, except that any annual variable pay shall be payable at such time as that award would otherwise have been payable.
Payments made in lieu of notice are subject to the executive director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment: in the event that alternative employment is secured, amounts payable pursuant to the new employment shall be deducted from any payment made by Fidessa during the unexpired notice period.
Service contracts may be terminated without notice and without compensation in a number of scenarios, including gross misconduct.
Further amounts may become due to settle statutory entitlements, compromise claims, assistance with outplacement costs and legal expenses.
Share The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an executive director will incentive be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment will be for outstanding plans unvested awards to lapse on cessation of employment.
In relation to awards granted under the PSP, DABP, SIP and MSPP, in certain prescribed circumstances good leaver status may be applied death, injury or disability, transfer of employment outside of the Group, or any other reason at the Committees discretion and the awards will normally vest in full in the case of the DABP, SIP and MSPP or subject to pro-rating for time in the case of the PSP subject to the performance condition.
PSP awards and any restricted share awards under the DABP will vest on the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines they vest on the date of cessation and will be subject to time pro-rating unless the Committee determines time pro-rating is inappropriate.
Other DABP awards will vest on the date of cessation.
The executive directors may accept a non-executive role at one other company with the approval of the Board.
The executive directors will be entitled to retain any fees paid for those services.
Service contracts non-executive directors The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and the key terms are shown in the table below: Provisions Summary Term and Indefinite with six months notice from either party.
Entitled to participate in SIP and other and receive matching shares from Fidessa in relation to that share plan.
entitlements Termination Payment in lieu of notice equal to six months pay.
Fidessa group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment for a term of three years except in the case of Ron Mackintosh, whose appointment term is one year that is subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
The current terms commenced in: 2016 for Ron Mackintosh and 2014 for Elizabeth Lake, John Worby and Ken Archer.
Further details of the appointment dates and remaining unexpired terms are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration policy for new directors In the event that a new executive director is appointed or a new service contract is entered into, the service contract would be subject to a notice period of not greater than 12 months with the director entitled to receive salary, benefits as well as participate in the annual variable pay scheme and share plans.
The remuneration package for the new director would be set in accordance with the terms of Fidessas approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment whilst at the same time reflecting the experience and skill of the individual.
The new directors total remuneration would be set taking account of comparative packages as advised by the Committees remuneration advisers and the proportions of the various elements of the remuneration package would be broadly similar to those relating to the current executive directors, taking into account local market legislation, regulatory constraints and cultural norms.
The salary for a new executive will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys target pay positioning and the market rate for the role in the relevant location, subject to the overall goal of attaining the right candidate.
Where it is appropriate to do so, salaries may be set below the market rate, with phased increases over the first few years as the individual gains experience on the role.
Different measures and targets under the annual variable pay plan or the PSP may be set initially, taking account of the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they join.
A new employee may be granted a normal annual PSP award in the first year of employment in addition to any awards made with respect to prior employment being forfeited.
Where the Committee has considered it to be in the best interest of Fidessa and its shareholders it may offer additional cash and or share-based elements on a one-time basis, such payments would be limited to the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer to take up a position with Fidessa and would reflect the delivery mechanism e. g. cash, shares, options, time horizons and whether performance requirements are attached to that remuneration.
If it is not possible, or not considered appropriate, to match the delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirements of such payment for lost remuneration then the Committee has the discretion to recommend that a payment be made on terms that it considers to be no more favourable than the payment terms for the lost remuneration.
Existing arrangements will be used to the extent possible subject to the limits set out in the policy : however, the Committee retains discretion to use the flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make such awards.
Shareholders will be informed of such payments at the time of appointment.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
Other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue as appropriate, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that Fidessa will meet reasonable legal expenses, and or relocation expenses in line with market practice.
The appointment of non-executive directors shall be on terms substantially similar to those of the existing non-executive directors and in accordance with the remuneration policy for non-executive directors applicable at the time.
