Fidessa group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committees of the Board The constitution and responsibilities of the Boards Committees are set out below.
Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2016.
The Committee continues to believe that a significant proportion of the remuneration for the executive directors should be performance-related.
The elements of each executives package that are performance-related are the annual variable pay, which is directly linked to the years operating profit, and long-term share incentives.
These elements are underpinned by a competitive salary but with very limited benefits.
These principles are reflected in the updated remuneration policy.
During the year the Committee conducted a five year review of the Companys share plans for directors and other employees and also reviewed the Directors remuneration policy which is due to be presented for renewal at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The conclusion of the review was that the current share plans and the policy are broadly fit for purpose: however certain changes are proposed to give greater flexibility in the way that the policy and, in particular the Performance Share Plan PSP, is operated from year to year and to take account of market and best practice developments.
The Committee consulted with Fidessas largest shareholders holding almost 75% of Fidessa shares regarding these changes and the majority of those consulted were supportive.
Details of the proposed performance targets for the 2017 awards are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The key change to the policy will be to allow the Committee greater flexibility in the choice of long-term incentive metrics the previous policy only allowed narrowly defined earnings per share EPS targets to be used as a measure.
The Committee has also formalised the share ownership guidelines and will introduce a two year post-vesting holding period into the policy.
Clawback and withholding provisions were also updated and or introduced to the share plan rules and the annual variable pay award to ensure consistency with best practice.
The overriding focus of the performance-related elements will remain on consistent financial performance over multiple years and the operation of increased shareholding guidelines will provide alignment with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
In September 2016 the Committee also approved the first grant of long-term incentives under the PSP since 2014.
These awards will vest in September 2020 subject to the achievement of challenging EPS targets.
For 2016, the Committee felt that due to prevailing market conditions and the potential financial performance of Fidessa, basic salary and the total annual variable pay opportunity for the executive directors should remain unchanged.
As in previous years, when setting the operating profit threshold for the executive directors annual variable pay, the Committee considered the market conditions at the time, Fidessas projected financial performance for the year and stakeholders interests.
For 2016, the Committee increased the operating profit threshold by 2.6%.
For 2017, the Committee has agreed that any increase in executive directors salaries will take into account and reflect sensitivities in relation to the percentage increase received by the Groups UK employees.
Additionally, there will be no change in benefits and Chris Aspinwalls and Andy Skeltons annual variable pay will be aligned to operating profit performance consistent with the approach taken since 2013.
Ken Archer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
