Fidessa group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration for the year commencing 1st January 2017 Executive directors Salary The Committee will continue to monitor the r emuner ation of e x ecutiv e dir ectors of other companies in the IT sector and other listed companies with similar market capitalisation to ensure that the executive directors remain sufficiently rewarded to promote the long-term success of Fidessa.
The Committee also takes into account sensitivities in relation to the salary increases across the wider workforce.
Salary increases may also include use of the DABP.
Any increase will be set out in the 2017 Annual Report.
Benefits The benefits received by the directors will remain substantially unchanged from 2016, being life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
Annual Variable pay will be paid to the executive directors in accordance with the directors remuneration policy variable pay and the operation method followed in 2016.
The threshold operating profit and the percentage payable on operating profit greater than the threshold will be set to provide a similar overall outcome for on target earnings and material adjustments to these parameters are unlikely and will be disclosed to shareholders in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
An interim payment will be made after the half year results are announced.
The performance measure for, and the operation of, the annual variable pay for 2017 is not being disclosed in this report as that information is deemed to be a forecast and therefore commercially sensitive.
That information will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.
Long-term It is proposed that the Committee may approve the granting of awards to the executive directors under incentives the PSP in accordance with the Policy.
The performance targets for awards made under the PSP will be the same as in 2016.
Awards granted under the PSP will vest depending on the compound annual growth in EPS during the performance period, as follows: Compound annual growth in EPS of award vesting Less than 8% 0% 8% 25% Between 8% and 15% Between 25% and 100% Greater than 15% 100% In addition to the EPS based performance condition, in the event that the total shareholder return is below that of the FTSE techMARK Index over the performance period, the Remuneration Committee will also have the power to scale back awards if in its opinion the level of vesting based on EPS performance is inappropriate.
Pension The executive directors have not participated in the pension scheme in the past.
Any participation in the pension scheme will be on terms no better than those available to UK employees.
Currently Fidessa matches the contributions of employees participating in the UK money purchase scheme up to a maximum of 3% of salary.
Other The directors will continue to be awarded matching shares as a result of their participation in the SIP.
In relation to the Chairman and non-executive directors, it is proposed that their fees will be reviewed to take into account fees paid by listed companies with a similar market capitalisation and also their time commitment and responsibilities.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Ken Archer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10th February 2017
