Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 138 Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement Dear Shareholder, As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 and, within this introduction, set the context for the activities and decisions of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Whilst much of the activity of the Remuneration Committee during 2016 may be regarded as business as usual, the expiry of our current Directors remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM has presented a timely opportunity for us to reflect on our overall approach to remuneration.
The firm conclusion from that review is that the fundamentals of our remuneration policy remain sound and appropriate for Fresnillo and are supported by our shareholders.
Therefore, whilst we are proposing some changes as outlined on page 140 the essential structure of the policy will remain unchanged and therefore the key features of the policy remain as follows: The fundamentals of our Component of remuneration Key features and rationale remuneration policy remain Base salary These are core elements of remuneration and benefits designed to recruit and retain Directors.
sound and appropriate for Ordinarily, the same basis for change e. g. salary increases will be applied Fresnillo and are supported across the Company to senior management and employees alike.
Annual bonus Annual bonus is capped at six months salary and is paid on the basis of metrics Charles Jacobs set out in the remuneration policy.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Long-term There are no long-term incentive incentive schemes schemes.
The annual bonus scheme sets targets which are aligned to the long-term strategic objectives so that these priorities are embedded within the day-to-day activities of our business rather than being seen as something extra.
Shareholding In the absence of share-based incentive guidelines schemes, there is no need to adopt shareholding guidelines for executives.
Claw-back The absence of long-term incentives and malus makes it difficult to adopt claw-back and malus arrangements.
There is scope within the bonus scheme for bonus awards to be adjusted downward at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
As in previous years, we have published remuneration information in respect of our Chief Executive Officer as if he were a member of the Board, even though that is not currently the case.
We believe this is within the spirit of our reporting obligations, even if it is not strictly required, as it adds to the transparency of our reporting.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 139 Remuneration Committee membership Remuneration Committee activity Although the UK Corporate Governance Code emphasises During the year, the Committee met four times.
Its key activities the need for the Remuneration Committee to be made up during the year were: of independent Non-executive Directors, we believe that it Monitoring of UK regulatory requirements and changing is vital that the membership of the Committee is made up of shareholder expectations and a review of potential changes Non-executive Directors who are able to bring the following to the remuneration policy.
perspectives to the working of the Remuneration Committee: Receipt of reports from Willis Towers Watson concerning the An understanding of shareholder expectations.
benchmarking of remuneration for members of the Executive An understanding of the evolving remuneration expectations Committee and Executive Directors, by reference to the of investors on the London Stock Exchange.
An understanding of the general approaches to remuneration Consideration of information about Mexican inflation trends within the Mexican market.
and internal employee salary reviews prior to setting the annual salary increases for the Chief Executive Officer and members When viewed against these three criteria, the current composition of the Executive Committee.
of the Remuneration Committee, being myself, Mr Baillres, the Review of the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Mr Fernando Ruiz, appears to be very members of the Executive Committee compared to the KPIs appropriate.
Thus, although Mr Baillres was non-independent set for 2015 and approval of annual bonus awards for 2015 at the time of his appointment to the Board and therefore his based on achievement of KPI targets.
membership of the Remuneration Committee does not comply Review of KPI targets for the Chief Executive Officer and with Code Provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance members of the Executive Committee for 2016, including Code, the Board continues to uphold the view that Mr Baillres consideration of the effectiveness of changes to the targets experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican to reward better performance in safety improvement and market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration exploration efforts set the previous year.
Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the Other activities, e. g. Committee evaluation, as required Remuneration Committee.
I am based in London and aware of the by the Committees terms of reference.
UK requirements whilst Mr Ruiz is based in Mexico and, along with the Chairman, is aware of the Mexican approach to remuneration.
I am always happy to talk to our shareholders about our approach to remuneration particularly as we approach the renewal of our policy at our 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Yours faithfully Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Performance highlights and remuneration outcomes in 2016 Company performance Silver production moz Gold production koz Total silver reserves moz 50.3m 935.5m 530.3m 2015: 47.0m 7.1% 2015: 761.7m 22.8% 2015: 547.6m -3.2% Total gold reserves moz Profit for the year US$ millions Fatalities 9.5m 425.0m 3 2015: 9.5m 0.0% 2015: 69.4m 512% 2015: 1 300% Components of CEOs remuneration Total salary MX$ millions Bonus MX$ millions 14.8m 3.6m 2015: 14.1m 5.0% 2015: 1.7m 111.8% Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 140 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy A new Directors remuneration policy will be proposed to shareholders for approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2017.
The full policy is set out on pages 142 to 146.
For ease of reference, the significant changes being proposed are summarised as follows: Proposed change Rationale The addition of limited discretion in the Bonus section of This provides the Remuneration Committee with limited flexibility Remuneration Policy table to enable the Committee to to adjust the weighting of different elements of the bonus KPIs to adjust individual KPI weightings from year-to-year.
ensure that the bonus remains aligned to the strategic objectives as they evolve.
Change to triennial benchmarking rather than biennial, to be Institutional shareholders have stated that they prefer three-yearly reviewed in the year prior to the renewal of the remuneration cycles for benchmarking which are administratively easier policy.
Addition of a cap on the maximum level of salary increase for the To ensure that there is absolute clarity about the maximum level Chief Executive Officer in any year to ensure that it is not more of pay increase for the Chief Executive Officer by reference to the than 10% higher than the average percentage pay increase for workforce whilst allowing some scope for justifiable above-inflation the workforce as a whole, except in exceptional circumstances increase e. g. where the Chief Executive Officer has been initially which would be fully explained in the following Annual Report appointed at a below median pay level to allow scope to grow on Remuneration.
More explicit disclosure about the peer group used to benchmark To provide clarity about the most appropriate group of companies the Chief Executive Officers remuneration to ensure that it remains to use for benchmarking purposes in response to comparator within the parameters set out in the remuneration policy.
groups selected by third parties.
Addition of a provision to allow the Remuneration Committee to This specific discretion to reduce bonus payments where adjust a bonus outcome downward if the financial or operational circumstances justify it is effectively a malus provision.
performance of the Company or individual does not justify the bonus level that would otherwise have been achieved on an ordinary interpretation of the targets and metrics.
The Remuneration Committee has previously agreed a change To bring the banding structure for the Chief Executive Officers to the payment bandings by adding a three-month bonus bonus arrangements into line with the changes previously agreed payment band.
for the other Executive Committee members and provide more flexibility in bonus payments.
Addition of a new section describing how shareholder views As required by the Regulations.
on remuneration are taken into account.
A statement concerning the use of Shareholding Guidelines This had previously been included in the Annual Report on is introduced.
Remuneration and is now part of the remuneration policy.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 141 Directors Remuneration Policy in summary The retention of key senior executives and the alignment of management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key objectives of the Groups current remuneration policy.
Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors or key management at an appropriate level is key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Salaries are therefore market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for comparable companies.
Total remuneration is benchmarked triennially against the Companys peer group within Mexico and internationally to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long-term.
Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and length of service.
The annual bonus rewards the achievement of financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of personal objectives.
Although the annual bonus is set for and based on performance over a single-year period, the KPIs and targets are also designed to ensure that both short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo Group are given broadly equal priority within variable remuneration.
As a consequence, the Company does not use share-based forms of remuneration to incentivise long-term performance.
The Annual Bonus Plan aligns incentives to the short-term one year and long-term multiple year objectives in the following manner.
Time horizon for objectives Key performance indicator 1 Strategic objective for the bonus scheme Short-term Long-term Measure Weighting Maximise the potential Increase production X X Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 of existing operations Safety X Fatalities 5 Deliver growth through Resources X Increase in total resources 10 development projects Extend the growth pipeline X Increase in resources upgraded from inferred 20 to indicated Advance sustainable Stakeholder X Various focused on community, employee 11 development and contractor relationships 2 Financial X Net adjusted profit 17 All objectives Teamwork X X Various e. g. succession planning 11 Notes: 1.
The Remuneration Committee may approve changes to the weightings in order to ensure that the bonus remains aligned to the strategic objectives as they evolve.
The 2016 net profit amount for the purposes of the 2016 annual bonus was re-based to take account of the year-on-year changes in currency, metals prices, the revaluation of the Silverstream contract.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 142 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy of the Company and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and the views of our major shareholders.
It describes the policy to be applied for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and beyond.
The remuneration policy will be put to a binding vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, and, subject to it receiving majority shareholder support, the Effective Date of the policy will be the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting of the Company, 23 May 2017.
This policy replaces in its entirety the remuneration policy approved by the Companys shareholders on 16 May 2014 but the Company may honour any commitment to pay an amount which was made before this policy came into effect or before the Director became a Director.
As required by UK law, the remuneration policy is binding in relation to Directors.
The Company currently has no Executive Directors who would be bound by the remuneration policy.
However, the Company will as it has previously done treat the Chief Executive Officer as if he were an Executive Director for the purposes of the remuneration policy and for reporting on his remuneration.
Remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy seeks to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain and motivate its Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The retention of key management and the alignment of management incentives and the creation of shareholder value being key objectives of this policy.
Setting base salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee at an appropriate level is a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Therefore, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for comparable companies.
Total compensation is set within a range around the median level for the Companys peer group within Mexico and internationally, total remuneration is benchmarked triennially to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long-term.
Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and service.
The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Directors pay set out in the remuneration policy the Policy Table : Base salary Provides the core reward for the role Operation Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months starting on 1 April each year and the review is influenced by: Role, experience and performance.
Comparison with the Companys peer group in Mexico and internationally.
Salaries are benchmarked triennially by reference to companies of similar size and complexity and will be positioned within a mid-range of the Companys comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally.
The next review will take place in April 2017 under the old policy and April 2019 under the new policy.
Maximum value The Executive Directors salary will be reviewed taking account of the benchmarking information received by the Remuneration Committee and the maximum value of the Executive Directors base salary will be positioned within the mid-range for companies in the peer group of Mexican and international resources companies.
An Executive Directors salary will be increased in line with increases applied across the whole workforce.
In exceptional circumstances, the Executive Directors salary may be increased by up to but never more than 10% above the average pay increase for the whole workforce of the Company in any year.
The rationale for such increases will be fully explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance metric The Remuneration Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate meeting each year by reference to the factors noted under the Operation heading in this table.
Details of the current remuneration of the Executive Director are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee will establish the Companys comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally as part of the triennial review which it will consider in April 2019.
The peer group will be reviewed again in April 2019.
The Committee will report on the outcome of these reviews within the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Help recruit and retain employees Operation An Executive Director would be entitled to life insurance, the use of a company car, the payment of premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups.
Benefits may be changed if Company policy on benefits changes.
Maximum value The current benefits are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The maximum value of benefits will be determined by Company policy that is applicable to all employees.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee may consider changes to the benefits made available to Executive Directors in line with any changes in the policy for benefits provided to all employees.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 143 Pension Rewards continued employment and sustained contribution Operation The Group operates a defined contribution scheme.
Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined contribution scheme.
Maximum value The maximum company contribution for any employee may not exceed 13% of salary.
Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of both shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives Operation Targets are renewed annually and relate to the strategic aims of the business as a whole.
A scoring system is used for the plan.
Each objective set for the executive at the beginning of the year is allocated a points-rating which represents a median performance target for that objective.
Upper and lower point thresholds are set to allow for outstanding performance and to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
For each member of the Executive Committee including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President of Exploration and the Chief Operating Officer, a bonus is only payable if the aggregate performance equals or exceeds 100 points.
Bonus payments are paid for aggregate performance against target at or above 100 points as follows: Points Variable pay months salary Variable pay % of salary Less than 100 Zero Zero 100.00103.75 Two 16.67 103.76-107.50 Three 25.00 107.51111.00 Four 33.33 111.01115.00 Five 41.67 115.01 Six 50.00 Maximum value The maximum percentage of salary is 50% six months salary and is paid where Executive Directors achieve 115.01 points or more under the Annual Bonus Plan target is 100 points.
Performance metric The KPI targets focus set out in the previous table will apply and are intended to focus on risks that are within the control and influence of management.
Thus, the management of safety, security, project, human resource, exploration and environmental risks are all currently implicitly covered within the KPIs.
The KPIs and targets, which are set by reference to the reserved and resources and financial metrics at the previous year end and or set in the budget for the forthcoming financial year are also designed to ensure that both short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo Group are given equal priority.
Details of the measures, targets and performance which is tested on an annual basis will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee considers that the KPIs, upon which bonuses are based, may need to evolve from year-to-year in line with the strategy and therefore it retains the discretion to make modest adjustments to the KPIs themselves, the bonus bands within the overall maximum and the individual KPI weightings from year-to-year.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust bonus payments in the following circumstances: i A do wnward adjustment where the KPI outcomes would result, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, in a bonus payment which cannot be justified by the Companys financial or operational performance during the year or subsequently in respect of previous years.
In this case a downward adjustment would be applied.
ii W here factors outside the control of Executive Directors e. g. force majeure circumstances have significantly depressed the level of points awarded.
In deciding whether adjustment is merited, the Remuneration Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Executive Directors response to those circumstances: in this situation a modest upward adjustment may be considered.
iii P oor executive response to adverse health, safety or environmental performance during the year, in which case a downward adjustment would be considered.
The use of any such discretions will be fully explained in future Directors Remuneration Reports.
Note: Any adjustment in individual KPI weightings will not result in their achievement being any less difficult to satisfy.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 144 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Alignment of executive remuneration and the market On behalf of members earning a salary of no more than 25 In setting the fixed remuneration of Executive Directors and the times the minimum wage in force from time to time the employing members of the Executive Committee, information relating to the company may make contributions of 5% to the scheme.
The mining company comparators is provided by various consultants.
employing company may also make additional contributions Information relating to the Mexican economic metrics and internal between 5% and 8% of salary to this plan.
Members may elect benchmarking is collated by management for the Remuneration to match percentages between 5% to 8% of salary.
Executive Directors may participate the Groups pension schemes Reviews are conducted by Willis Towers Watson triennially.
on the same basis as any other employee.
These enable the Remuneration Committee to validate the Companys policy towards remuneration and ensure that it was Engagement with shareholders on remuneration globally as well as locally competitive.
The analysis evaluates the The composition of the Remuneration Committee has been elements of base salary, short-term compensation guaranteed designed to ensure that the views of the controlling shareholder payments and short-term bonus and long-term compensation through the membership of the Chairman of the Board on the primarily stock programmes separately.
With assistance Committee and the independent shareholders through the from Willis Towers Watson, the Remuneration Committee has membership of a UK-based Director on the Committee can established a peer group consisting of the following companies be represented.
The Remuneration Committee has considered which will be used to benchmark any Executive Directors and the views of organisations such as Institutional Shareholder any Executive Committee members remuneration to ensure Services ISS and the Investment Association both generally that it remains within the parameters set out in this policy.
and as reported to the Company in relation to its own executive remuneration practices prior to each Annual General Meeting, Europe Randgold Resources when considering the Remuneration Policy and its application.
Acacia Mining The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also discussed Hochschild Mining aspects of the Remuneration Policy in person with ISS, and there were no major concerns raised.
USA Canada Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd Goldcorp Inc.
The Remuneration Committee does not consult with employees Hecla Mining Co. in setting Directors remuneration.
Newmont Mining Corporation Panamerican Silver Corp. Policy on recruitment Yamana Gold Inc.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the remuneration Mexico Goldcorp of new Executive Directors by reference to the remuneration policy Grupo Mexico set out above.
The Remuneration Committee does not as a default position pay sign-on payments or compensate new Directors for any variable remuneration forfeited from any employment prior to Comparison of executive and wider Company remuneration joining the Board.
If it did, such payments would be fully explained When setting pay and benefits for Executive Directors and in the next Annual Report on Remuneration both as to the reason members of the Executive Committee, the Remuneration for payment and the rationale for the quantum.
Salary will be set Committee takes account of pay and conditions across the Group.
so as to be market competitive both within the Mexican context It will consider the overall pay increase percentage negotiated and internationally for comparable companies and taking account with employee representatives as its starting point.
Subject to the of the experience and seniority of the appointee coming into the 10% limit in the Policy Table, the Remuneration Committee may new role.
The Remuneration Committee is likely to set base salaries agree pay increases above or below the agreed percentage in below median on appointment whilst retaining discretion to exceptional circumstances, where in its discretion it considers award increases during the first and, possibly, subsequent years such variance to the norm to be justified.
Other than the to bring salaries into the normal range expected for Executive Willis Towers Watson report specifically commissioned by the Directors, in line with the Companys stated policy.
Such increases Remuneration Committee, the same benchmark reports are will not exceed the maximum level set out in the Policy Table.
New used in the evaluation of executive and employee remuneration, Executive Directors will receive benefits and pensions in line with thus providing a common approach to both.
Companys existing policy and will be able to participate in the Annual Bonus Plan on a pro-rated basis for the portion of the Below Board level, a statutory profit-sharing arrangement PTU financial year for which they are in post.
The maximum level of is operated which in some years has enabled employees to receive variable pay for new recruits will be the same as that set out in significant levels of bonus in line with the increased profitability the Policy Table for existing employees pro-rated as necessary.
of the relevant employing company.
Neither the Chief Executive Officer nor any of the Non-executive Directors participate in a PTU Policy on loss of office scheme within the Fresnillo Group.
The other members of senior Other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, Executive management group below Board level are employed by Servicios Directors and members of the Executive Committee, including Administrativos Fresnillo SA fide CV which pays annual PTU the Chief Executive Officer, leaving employment from the Group, payments.
However such payments are modest.
will be entitled to receive salary and pro-rated annual bonus based on performance to the date of leaving.
Statutory entitlements The Group operates two pension schemes: i a defined benefit are payable according to Mexican labour law, based on length scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 of service.
Mexican labour law does not make any provision for with benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject employers and employees to give or receive notice of termination to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer of employment.
Therefore the Committee will not make payments Price Index: and ii a defined contribution scheme which was in lieu of notice to departing executives unless required to do so introduced on 1 July 2007.
Membership of the latter scheme is by law.
No contractual commitments concerning loss of office voluntary, members earning a salary of no more than 25 times the were entered into with any Director prior to 27 June 2012. minimum wage in force from time to time may make contributions of 5% to the scheme.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 145 Annual bonus plan and policy on variable remuneration than one year, the Remuneration Committee does not consider It is the Companys policy not to use its equity to incentivise that there is much value in introducing claw-back provisions into long-term performance.
The Companys core strategy is one the contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer of long-term sustainable growth.
Sustainable growth in mining at this stage.
Within this remuneration policy, the Remuneration requires the steady and safe expansion of the Groups operations Committee reserves the right to make downward adjustment through the discovery of new resources and construction, to bonus payments where the KPI outcomes would result, in the maintenance and or expansion of new mines.
No distinction opinion of the Remuneration Committee, in a bonus payment is therefore made between shortand long-term incentives.
which cannot be justified by the Companys financial or personal performance during the year or subsequently in respect of The Company operates a single cash-based incentive plan for previous years.
In this case a downward adjustment would Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee, be applied.
including the Chief Executive Officer.
Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy Malus and claw-back for the Chief Executive Officer The Remuneration Committee has considered whether malus and The following table sets out the fixed and variable remuneration or claw-back provisions should be incorporated into the service of the Chief Executive Officer in the different scenarios where agreement for the Chief Executive Officer.
Given that the Company he receives, minimum, target and maximum variable pay based does not operate any remuneration plans with a timeframe of more on 31 December 2016 remuneration.
Max value Component US$k Minimum Target Maximum 1 Share incentives 2 Annual bonus 277k Annual Variable Pay US$1,195k US$1,010k US$918k 9.1% 23.2% 3 Pension benefits 36k Fixed Pay 100% 90.9% 76.8% Other benefits 90k Base salary 792k 1.
Fresnillo plc does not operate any share option or share-based long-term incentive plans.
Variable pay consists only of remuneration where performance measures or targets relate only to one financial year.
Fixed pay includes salary, benefits and pension.
External appointments The Chairman of the Company does not receive any fees for acting It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept as Chairman other than his fees as a Non-executive Director.
directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies and retain any fees or other remuneration for doing so, provided that Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company.
of 14 days per year in fulfilling their duties as a Director of the Any such directorships must be formally notified to the Board.
Once this policy is approved a base fee of 35,000 per annum will be paid to each non-UK-based Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors Director to reflect the time commitment and level of involvement The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the they are required to make in the activities of the Board as a whole.
Non-executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly There are no set fees for membership of any Board committees in arrears.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not or for the chairmanship of the Board.
The UK-based Non-executive participate in any long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, Directors receive a higher fee to reflect the additional time nor do they accrue any pension entitlement.
Neither the Chairman commitment that they make in order to travel to Board meetings nor any of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract in Mexico and to their responsibilities as appropriate as Senior with the Company: however each has entered into a letter Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of appointment with the Company.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors give not less than three months notice of termination of the signed a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial appointment.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment period of three years.
Since April 2011, the letters of appointment of and service agreements are available for inspection at the serving Non-executive Directors have been drafted in accordance Companys registered office.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging them to retire at each Annual General Meeting and be subject to annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of one year.
The amendments have been drafted such that renewed appointment will not necessitate a new letter of appointment.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 146 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment for the Directors serving during the year are as follows: Date of original letter of Notice period from Director to 1 Director appointment the Company Duration of term Fees p. a. Alberto Baillres 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Arturo Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Alejandro Baillres 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Jaime Lomeln 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Brbara Garza Lagera 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 30,000 Charles Jacobs 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 90,000 Jaime Serra Puche 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 30,000 Alberto Tiburcio 4 May 2016 3 months 1 year 30,000 1.
Unexpired term: the Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The current term expires on 23 May 2016, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM.
The fees payable to the Non-UK Non-executive Directors will, subject to this policy being approved, be increased to 35,000 with effect from the 23 May 2017.
The Board have agreed that the aggregate fees of the Non-executive Directors excluding the reimbursement of expenses will be 530,000 per annum.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that the aggregate remuneration of Directors may not exceed 3,000,000 unless approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the Company.
This is the maximum figure for the purposes of this policy.
Shareholding guidelines Fresnillo has not introduced share ownership guidelines The Company does not operate a share-based incentive scheme given that the culture for incentives in the Mexican market does not favour share-based incentives.
Consequently, there would be neither opportunity nor appetite for executives to build a shareholding in the Company and therefore the Remuneration Committee has not adopted any shareholding guidelines.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 147 Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 Introduction This report sets out information about the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016.
In accordance with the Regulations, the information provided in the section entitled Directors Remuneration 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 and accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
Although the Chief Executive Officer is not currently a member of the Board, the Remuneration Committee has elected to report on his remuneration in this Report as if he were a Director, in keeping with the spirit of the Regulations.
Benefits provided to Mr Alvdrez include the cost of life insurance premiums 2016: US$24,779 2015: US$26,465, club memberships 2016: US$1,544 2015: US$1,679, subsistence and other meal benefits 2016: US$9,508 2015: US$10,517, premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups 2016: US$4,210 2015: US$3,639, chauffeur 2016: US$29,507 2015: US$25,351, car 2016: US$19,308 2015, US$11,216 and social security costs 2016: US$977 2015: US$1,100.
The basis of calculation for Mr Alvdrez annual bonus for 2016 is set out in the table below.
The Company does not operate a long-term incentive plan or any share-based incentives.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 148 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 continued The objectives, as applied to Mr Alvdrez incentive payment, the measures associated with each objective, and the relative weighting between objectives, are detailed below: 2016 2015 Weighting 2016 2016 points 2015 points 1 Objective Measure points target result award result award Production Increase in equivalent 26 104.4 million equivalent 111.2 27.7 92.5 26.80 3 ounces produced ounces of silver This information is shown 2015: 89.8 million equivalent on page 58 ounces of silver 2 Exploration Increase in total resources 10 Maintain prior year 109% 10.9 102% 10.20 growth This information is shown total resources on page 71 Increase in resources 20 Maintain prior year 113% 22.6 103% 20.60 upgraded from inferred to total indicated 3 indicated This information is shown on page 71 3 4 Financial Net profit adjusted 17 US$111 million US$337 51.7 US$236 28.50 2015: US$141 million million million Stakeholder Relationship with key 5 Unmeasured 2.00 2.00 3.00 3.00 stakeholders e. g. 4 communities and unions 4 Management of land rights 3 3.00 3.00 4.25 4.25 4 Controls over contractors 3 0 0 3.75 3.75 Teamwork Collective teamwork across 5 Unmeasured 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 4 the Group Progressing the Succession 6 0 0 2.00 2.00 Plan for Executive 4 Committee positions 5, 6 Safety Fatal accidents 5 Zero 3 0 1 0 Sub-total 100 119.9 104.10 Adjustments 2.4 0 Sub-total 100 117.5 104.10 Discretion 8.0 Total 100 109.5 104.10 1.
The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management.
Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the Weighting will be amended in future years.
Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored.
Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract.
The 2016 net profit amount for the purposes of the 2016 annual bonus was in line with this approach.
A table setting out the reconciliation of Net Profit to the numbers reporting in the financial statements is set out below.
The points awarded for the Stakeholder and Teamwork objectives are subject to some discretion.
The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration Committees assessment of the stakeholder and teamwork effort: Satisfactory performance 100% of weighting points: outstanding performance 140% of weighting points: and underperformance 0 points.
In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for safety.
For the purposes of calculating fatalities: all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors.
Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to ten points.
In addition, to the penalty for a single fatality see note 5, the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities, or by 2% if there are three fatalities, or by 3% if there are four fatalities etc.
Reconciliation of net profit targets and outcomes to the financial statements 2016 2015 US$ millions Result Result Profit for year as shown in financial statements 425.0 69.4 Adjustments: Changes due to currency fluctuations 115.5 17.6 Changes due to year-on-year movements in metal prices including the effects of metal hedging 109.5 168.6 Changes due to the movement in the valuation of the Silverstream contract 93.5 19.4 Net profit adjusted total for bonus purposes 337.5 236.2 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 149 Explanation of non-financial targets and committee decision on points awarded Relationship with stakeholders The Remuneration Committee consider that some improvement is needed in certain aspects.
Surface tenure Performance was in line with expectations.
Controls over contractors Fatalities among contractor staff during the year so further work is needed.
Collective teamwork The Remuneration Committee consider that some improvement is required in this area.
Succession plan for Exco positions No progress was made during the year to the disappointment of the Remuneration Committee.
Committee discretion The Committee continued to be concerned at safety performance and the areas set out above and used its discretion to deduct points so as to reduce the bonus paid to the CEO compared to what he would have received otherwise.
Pension entitlement The pension entitlement of the Chief Executive Officer is as follows: US$000 Defined Contribution Scheme DCS Defined Benefit Scheme DBS 1 Rights as at 31 December 2016 US$396 US$898 Additional benefit in the event that the In the event of early retirement, Mr Alvdrez Mr Alvdrez is not currently entitled to Chief Executive Officer retires early is entitled to receive his accumulated any additional benefit on early retirement contributions both member and Company in the DBS.
Increase, before inflation and the effect Increase in accrued benefits of foreign exchange, in accrued benefits Accumulated accrued benefits during the year note 1 during the year US$000 At 31 Dec 2016 At 31 Dec 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Octavio Alvdrez 1,297 1,435 139 134 36 90 Notes: 1.
The decrease in accrued benefits during the year includes a revaluation effect of US$ 215k 2015: US$253k.
Mr Alvdrez is expected to retire at his normal retirement age of 60 years old.
Shares held by Directors The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2016 and at 31 December 2016 was: 1 January 31 December 2016 2016 1 Alberto Baillres 552,595,191 552,595,191 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Rafael MacGregor N A Arturo Fernndez Jaime Lomeln Fernando Ruiz 30,000 30,000 Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala N A Alejandro Baillres Brbara Garza Lagera Charles Jacobs Jaime Serra Alberto Tiburcio 1.
Alberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
Mr Baillres and companies controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate 68.9% of the issued share capital and voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 Ordinary Shares 74.99% of the issued share capital in the Company.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 150 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 continued Unaudited Information Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 Chief Executive Officer salary and benefits The Total Remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer, Octavio Alvdrez, during the year was US$1,110,765.
During the year, Mr Alvdrez served as Chief Executive Officer but was not a member of the Board.
Mr Alvdrez is employed under a contract of employment with Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S. A. fide C. V. a subsidiary of Fresnillo plc.
Mr Alvdrez contract was entered into on 15 August 2012 and is governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law.
Mr Alvdrez service agreement does not have a fixed term and can be terminated in writing by either party with no entitlement to additional compensation for termination other than compensation payments required for termination without cause under Mexican labour laws.
No benefits are payable on termination.
The salary payable under Mr Alvdrez service agreement is MX$898,700 per month, which excludes payments for holidays, Companypaid savings contributions and other cash benefits.
Mr Alvdrez was awarded a salary increase of 4.5% to reflect his development as Chief Executive Officer over the past year.
Willis Towers Watson have confirmed that the salary review was in line with the remuneration policy.
Under his service agreement, Mr Alvdrez is entitled to 26 working days paid holiday per year.
He is not entitled to profit-sharing PTU.
Mr Alvdrez is also entitled to life insurance, the use of a chauffeur and company car, the payment of medical insurance premiums covering limited expenses and check-ups, meals and subsistence payments and club subscriptions.
The Remuneration Committee consider that year-on-year changes to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer align equitably with changes in the remuneration of the Companys workforce for the following reasons: Salary The Remuneration Committee ordinarily use the same percentage agreed for the whole workforce as the percentage basis for the annual salary increase for the Chief Executive Officer.
Bonus The Chief Executive is prohibited from participating in the PTU Scheme and therefore may only receive a maximum of six months pay.
All other employees are eligible for PTU payments annually which can be as high as 200% of salary in exceptional years.
Benefits The Chief Executive Officer participates in the Company-wide benefits scheme.
Pension The Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Companys standard pension scheme.
Annual bonus Mr Alvdrez achieved 109.5 points under the bonus scheme for the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: 104.1 points and therefore was awarded a bonus of MX$3,594,800: US$192,681 : for 2016.
Pensions The Group operates two pension schemes: a defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme which was introduced on 1 July 2007.
Further information on the Groups pension schemes is set out in the remuneration policy on page 144.
Malus and claw-back The introduction of the 2016 Corporate Governance Code requires companies to either introduce malus and or claw-back provisions and other forms of deferred variable pay where appropriate, or explain why they have not complied with the Code.
In 2016, the Company had not introduced any malus or claw-back provisions into the contractual agreements with the Chief Executive Officer: however the 2017 remuneration policy will give the Remuneration Committee discretion to reduce bonus payments to take account of poor operational or financial performance in previous years, see page 145 in the Directors remuneration policy section.
Year-on-year percentage change in remuneration of CEO and all employees Percentage change in US dollar amounts 20162017 Base Salary Fees Benefits Annual Bonus Chief Executive Officer 10.8% 12.3% 70.0% All employees 0.7% 2.6% 4.5% FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 151 Implementation of the remuneration policy in 2016 and 2017 In 2014, the Remuneration Committee asked Willis Towers Watson to recommend a framework for setting the salaries of Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Following this review, the Remuneration Committee established the peer group of companies for the purposes of validating the remuneration of Executive Directors the Peer Group.
The Peer Group consists of 11 resources companies from Europe three companies, USA and Canada six companies and Mexico two companies see page 144.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the Chief Executives salary should be set within a range of 25% to 75% of the Peer Group for base salary.
In 2016, Willis Towers Watson advised the Remuneration Committee that the CEOs salary was well within the parameters set out in the remuneration policy.
The new 2017 remuneration policy as set out on pages 142 to 146 of this Report will be presented to shareholders for approval at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the effectiveness of KPIs and targets that were set for 2016 and it continues to consider that the overall structure of the Incentive Plan and the targets set in 2016 remain appropriate for 2017 other than where adjusted to reflect the 2017 business plan targets.
The 2017 weightings and measures are therefore set out in the table below.
The 2017 targets and performance against those targets will be disclosed in this report.
Weighting 1 Objective Measure Points 2 Production Increase in equivalent ounces produced compared to prior year production level 26 2 Exploration growth Net increase in total resources compared to previous year-end total 10 Net increase in resources upgraded from inferred to indicated compared to previous 20 2 year-end total 3 Financial Year-on-year increase in net profit adjusted 17 4 Stakeholder Relationship with key stakeholder 5 4 Surface tenure 3 4 Controls over contractors 3 4 Teamwork Collective teamwork across the Group 5 Succession Plan for Executive Committee positions 6 5, 6 Safety Fatal accidents 5 Total 100 7 Adjustments Total 100 1.
Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the weighting will be amended in future years.
The points awarded for the stakeholder and teamwork objectives are subject to some discretion.
The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration Committees assessment of the teamwork effort: Outstanding 7 points: Satisfactory 5 points: Underperformance 0 points.
Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points.
In addition, to the penalty for a single fatality see note 5, the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities.
From the remaining total score, and additional 2% will be deducted if there are three fatalities.
In the case of four fatal accidents, an additional 3% will be deducted from the remaining total score and so on for further fatalities.
In addition, in 2017, a further adjustment will be introduced for environmental incidents.
In the event of an environmental incident, the total bonus score will be reduced by 2%.
In the case of two incidents, a further 3% will be deducted.
In the case of three incidents a further 4% will be deducted and so on.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 152 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 continued Advisors to the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration consultants are engaged by Group companies Membership to provide benchmarking information on remuneration but not The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following Directors to provide guidance on the structure of remuneration.
All of the in the year ended 31 December 2016: consultants that the Group uses are independent of the Company.
No remuneration consultants are directly engaged by the Mr Charles Jacobs Chairman, Independent Remuneration Committee itself.
Non-executive Director Mr Alberto Baillres, Chairman of the Board Benchmarking information on pay and employment conditions is Mr Fernando Ruiz, Independent Non-executive Director supplied annually by Mercer, Hay Group and Data Compensation.
The information provided is used across the Group in determining Mr Baillres was non-independent at the time of his appointment salaries for all employee grades including senior management.
to the Board and therefore his membership of the Remuneration Whilst the Remuneration Committee takes such information into Committee does not comply with Code Provision D. 2.1 of the account when considering executive remuneration, none of these UK Corporate Governance Code.
However, the Board believes advisors are considered to materially assist the Remuneration that Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the Group and Committee in the performance of its duties.
the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership In addition, the Remuneration Committee receives specific of the Remuneration Committee.
Further information about reports comparing the remuneration of the members of the the rationale for the current membership of the Remuneration Executive Committee to international benchmarks.
Willis Towers Committee is set out in the Chairmans Annual Statement Watson have advised the Remuneration Committee in relation on pages 138 and 139. to the establishment of the Peer Group and the provision of benchmarking information showing the position of the Role remuneration, and particularly the salaries, of members of the The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making Executive Committee in relation to the Peer Group.
Willis Towers recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration Watson provide general advice and benchmarking information policy for senior management the Chief Executive Officer and to the Group concerning executive remuneration and during 2016, other members of the Executive Committee, and for determining the Group paid Willis Towers Watson US$nil.
specific remuneration packages for senior management, including pension rights and any compensation packages, as well as The Company Secretary ensures that the Remuneration remuneration of the Chairman within agreed terms of reference.
Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, is responsible for setting the on relevant regulatory developments in the UK.
Chairmans remuneration: however the Chairman does not receive any remuneration other than his fee as a Non-executive Director The Group Human Resources Department provides information of the Company.
on Mexican market trends and compensation structures for the broader employee population in the Fresnillo Group.
Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys AGM voting on the Remuneration Report website at: www.
The Remuneration Committees approach to executive remuneration has received strong support from shareholders at Activity during 2016 every Annual General Meeting since the Companys listing on the During the year, the Committee met four times.
A summary of its London Stock Exchange in 2008.
More than 99% of independent key activities during the year is set out in the Chairmans Annual share votes cast on the advisory vote at each AGM have been in Statement on pages 138 and 139. favour of the Directors Remuneration Report.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 153 Payments to departing Directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors: neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
Performance reviews As required by the Regulations, the following graph sets out the performance of the Companys share price since its listing compared to the FTSE 100 Index.
This is deemed to be the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes.
Key Fresnillo Total Return Index FTSE 100 Total Return Index 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer for the past six years, in US dollars, has been as follows: Year ending 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chief Executive Officer Jaime Lomelin Octavio Alvdrez Total remuneration US$000s 1 Jaime Lomelin 1,698 1,329 Octavio Alvdrez 580 1,116 1,217 1,166 1,111 Total 1,698 1,909 1,116 1,217 1,166 1,111 Percentage change on previous year 11.1% 12.4% 41.5% 9.1% 4.2% 4.7% Proportion of maximum bonus paid to CEO in year Jaime Lomelin 33.33% 66.66% Octavio Alvdrez 66.66% 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% 66.66% 1.
This figure only relates to remuneration paid to Jamie Lomelin in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer in 2012.
Relative importance of the spend on pay 2016 2015 % Change 1 Staff costs US$000s 85,889 88,593 3.1% Distributions to shareholders US$000s 88,059 37,582 134.3% 1.
Staff costs are taken without PTU in order to make a like-for-like comparison with the Chief Executive Officer who does not receive PTU.
This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2017
