Directors remuneration report THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Further information on the levels of executive remuneration earned in 2016, including performance against the relevant targets, are given on pages 89 to 96.
Main activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year % Reporting and governance 25% Incentives 30% Executives base pay 3% Management changes 27% John Daly Chairmans fee 5% Remuneration Committee Chairman Below board level 10% Having succeeded Mark Elliott as chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May, I would like to express my thanks to him for his excellent work whilst chairman of the committee.
I am very keen to continue the work and focus of the committee in Key areas of focus in 2016 ensuring the alignment of our remuneration structure with the Companys strategy, to drive total focus from our executive Committee membership team on the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
At the 2016 AGM, Mark Elliott retired from the board and I took Committee membership and attendance during 2016 over from him as chairman of the committee.
I would like to thank Mark for his insightful contributions to the work of the committee.
Meetings attended On 1 July, Barbara Thoralfsson joined the board of G4S plc and the 1 John Daly Chairman 5 of 5 committee.
Barbaras experience of executive and senior 2 management remuneration structures in other markets is a useful Mark Elliott 2 of 2 3 addition to the committees broad knowledge base.
Winnie Fok 4 of 5 Clare Spottiswoode 5 of 5 Management changes 4 Barbara Thoralfsson 3 of 3 Tim Weller succeeded Himanshu Raja as chief financial officer of the Companyafter Mr Raja stepped down from the board on 1.
John Daly succeeded Mark Elliott as chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2016.
The committee discussed and approved the arrangements associated with Mr Rajas departure, details of which 2.
Mark Elliott retired from the board and the committee in May 2016. were published on our website www.
Winnie Fok was unable to attend one meeting following the 15 August 2016 and which can also be found on page 95. cancellation of her flight due to typhoon conditions.
The committee also approved Mr Wellers remuneration taking 4.
Barbara Thoralfsson joined the board and the committee in July 2016. into consideration relevant market factors and the skills and There were three scheduled meetings and two additional meetings were experience that Tim brings to the role.
Further details held during the year ended 31 December 2016. can be found on page 59. Business context and performance Our remuneration policy In a year of rising geo-political risk and increased political As announced last year, in anticipation of the Companys uncertainty, and against a slow economic recovery in developed remuneration policy requiring shareholder approval in 2017, the countries and reduced growth in developing countries, committee undertook an extensive review of the existing management made substantial progress in delivering the Groups Directors Remuneration Policy Current Policy during 2016.
They produced tangible results, with continuing business doing so, the committee was mindful of the overall approach and revenue growth of 6.3%, PBITA increase of 9.7% to 454m and structure of employee reward across the Group, developments in operating cash flow increase of 61.5% to 638m.
Further details remuneration for executives in the global market as well as views are set out in the chief executive officers introduction to the of the investor community.
Strategic Review on pages 4 to 7.
The review sought to assess whether the Current Policy remained suitably aligned to the Companys strategy and provided effective 2016 Remuneration outcomes incentives to the executives and senior management team.
As reported last year, the CEOs and CFOs salaries were Particular attention was paid to the variable components of increased by 1% with effect from 1 January 2016. remuneration and their operation.
The Remuneration Committee Annual bonus Against the backdrop of strong financial also received the assistance of its adviser, who aided the performance, annual bonus outcomes for the executive directors development of remuneration proposals by providing information resulted in payouts of 146% of salary for the CEO and 136% for on remuneration arrangements at similar businesses operating on the CFO, representing stretch performance.
a global scale and evolving market practices.
Long term incentive plan given the very strong business performance in the year, as described above, awards that were granted in 2014 vested based on performance over the three year period to the end of 2016 at a level of 70%.
While stretch performance was achieved based on the measurement of average operating cash flow and average annual growth in EPS, 30% of the award which was measured against relative total shareholder return did not meet the required threshold.
78 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance A particular area of focus was our choice of performance The long-term incentive plan introduced in 2014 had measures.
The performance measures in the Long Term Incentive overwhelming support from shareholders and will continue to Plan LTIP approved by shareholders in 2014 consist of growth in operate unchanged in 2017. earnings per share, relative total shareholder return and average UK Code compliance operating cash flow.
The Remuneration Committee considers that performance in all these critical areas is achieved by delivering the The committee had in place malus and clawback before their Group strategy and the areas with the most direct correlation introduction became a feature of the revised UK Corporate between strategic priorities and performance are Governance Code.
These arrangements are explained on page 84. highlighted below.
The committee is also conscious of the Codes requirement that executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote Earnings per share growth is directly and immediately impacted the long-term success of the Company and that performanceby improvements in productivityand operational excellence for related elements of remuneration should be transparent, example through IT investment, global procurement initiatives and stretching and applied rigorously.
This aligns with the Remuneration operational efficiency programmes which help build momentum in Committees own philosophy.
Operating cash flow improvements have been driven by greater The committees performance financial discipline across the Group as new behaviours and better The committees formal performance review carried out at the controls are embedded in the finance function and in the broader end of 2016 concluded that the committee continues to be management team and this stronger cash flow performance is effective and to perform well.
As the transformation of the Group sustained through delivery of consistent, excellent service to gains momentum and results in evolving organisational structures, our customers.
the committee will continue to review and analyse the reward strategy for the senior management population to ensure strong Total shareholder return is strongly influenced by our ability to alignment with the Companys strategy.
In doing so, the committee differentiate our service through innovation, leading to revenue will take account of remuneration practices in those markets growth in new sectors as well as increased market share.
Our where it seeks to recruit, develop and retain key talent from a continued focus on health and safety also correlates to sustainable highly international and mobile population.
performance by embedding strong values at all levels in the organisation.
Voting on remuneration Having concluded its review, the committee found that the The Companys current remuneration policy for directors was Current Policy operates effectively and continues to align the approved by shareholders at the Companys annual general executives with the longer-term performance of the business.
meeting held on 5 June 2014 with 98.38% of all votes cast in Minor amendments were made to remove certain terms no favour.
It came into effect on 6 June 2014 and continued to apply longer required following the retirement of Grahame Gibson, the for up to three years.
In accordance with the Large and Mediumformer chief operating officer, from the board in 2015.
I wrote to sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports shareholders representing 60% of our shareholders base in March Amendment Regulations 2013, a new remuneration policy will 2017 to advise them of the Remuneration Committees decision be submitted to shareholders for approval at the AGM on concerning remuneration policy.
25 May 2017, which will apply for up to three years.
The policy is set for a period of three years.
However, we will The committee believes that the Current Policy is adequate to continue to review the position to ensure the policy is aligned to motivate and retain our executive team whilst supporting the the Companys evolving business needs as we continue the delivery of sustainable returns to shareholders, we are therefore transformation of G4S across the Group.
proposing to make no substantive changes to the policy from that approved in 2014.
Implementation of remuneration in 2017 In addition, the annual report on remuneration will be put to an Pay review advisory vote at this years annual general meeting, and we look forward to receiving shareholders support on both resolutions For 2017, the CEOs base pay has been increased by 1.5% and once again this year.
that for the new CFO remains unchanged.
This pay review took account of market salary trends as well as salary increases I will be available to answer questions and listen to the views of elsewhere in the Group.
The increase awarded to the CEO was our shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
lower than the average percentage increase applicable to Group employees based in the UK.
John Daly Incentives Remuneration Committee Chairman The bonus opportunity and LTIP award levels remain unchanged in 2017.
28 March 2017 In relation to bonus, the committee seeks to set targets that support the overarching strategy, reflect the business context for the relevant period.
Targets are also intended to be stretching whilst remaining achievable and are compatible with the Groups risk appetite.
The committee is confident that the targets set meet these criteria, based on the range of assumptions in the Companys budget.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 79 Directors remuneration report continued annual bonuses and benefits under long-term incentive plans and Responsibilities assesses performance against the objectives of those plans.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of the remuneration of the executive directors, other members of The committees terms of reference are available on the the group executive committee and the chairman of the board.
It also agrees with the board the framework and policy for the Our remuneration approach remuneration of other senior managers of the Group and reviews We seek to attract and retain the best people whilst ensuring that and recommends to the board the remuneration of the the remuneration policy and practice drive behaviours that are in company secretary.
the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
In determining remuneration policy, the committee takes into Fixed pay account a variety of legal and regulatory requirements and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
base pay The committee also determines policy on the duration, notice retirement benefits period and termination payments under the contracts with the other benefits executive directors, with a view to recognising service to the Short-term incentives Company whilst ensuring that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is recognised.
annual bonus plan one year with deferred element three years The committee approves the design and determines the target measures and formulae for performance-related pay schemes Long-term incentives operated by the Company.
It approves the eligibility of executive long term incentive plan three years directors and other group executive committee members for Directors remuneration policy This section sets out the Directors remuneration policy, which is subject to a binding vote of the shareholders at the Companys next annual general meeting on 25 May 2017.
Subject to its approval, this remuneration policy will be effective from that date.
The Current Policy, which can be found in the annual report and accounts 2013, is available on the Companys website at www.
com investors and will continue to apply until the policy set out below is approved.
As explained in the introduction to this report, minor amendments were made to remove certain terms no longer required following the retirement of the former chief operating officer from the board in October 2015.
Directors remuneration policy Remuneration policy for executive directors BASE PAY Purpose and link to strategy In determining salary increases, the committee considers market salary levels including those of appropriate comparator companies.
Base pay is set at competitive levels in order to recruit and retain high calibre executives with the skills required in order to manage Ordinarily, annual salary increases would be no more than the a company of the size and global footprint of G4S.
average annual increase across the Group.
However, in exceptional circumstances a higher level of increase may be awarded, The level of pay will reflect a number of factors including individual for example: experience, expertise and role.
following a significant change to the nature or scale of Operation the business: Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing following a significant change to the nature or scope of the 1 January.
Interim salary reviews may be carried out following role: or significant changes in role, scope or responsibility or at any other for a new appointment, where the base pay may initially be set time at the committees discretion.
below the market level and increased over time, as experience The final salary decision may also be influenced by role, develops and with reference to the individuals performance in experience, individual and company performance, internal the first few years in the role.
relativities and increases for Group employees.
Where exceptional increases are made we will fully disclose and explain the rationale for such increases.
Maximum opportunity Actual base pay for each executive director is disclosed each year Performance measures and clawback in the Directors remuneration report.
None, although individual performance may have a bearing on salary increases.
80 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity As with base salary, a suitable range of benefits is made available in Maximum benefits per director per annum: order to recruit and retain high calibre executives.
holidays 30 days Operation car allowance 20,000 Executives are entitled to a number of benefits comprising paid business related local transport 40,000 holiday, healthcare for themselves and their family and life for financial advice, expatriate benefits and relocation expenses, insurance of up to four times base salary, car allowance, business the expense will reflect the cost of the provision of benefits related transport, limited financial advice from time to time and from time to time but will be kept under review by expatriate benefits where relevant.
A relocation allowance the committee reflecting reasonable costs actually incurred will be paid.
other benefits granted at the discretion of the committee up Other benefits may be granted at the discretion of the to 3% of base pay per annum per director Remuneration Committee.
reasonable business expenses are not subject to a maximum, since these are not a benefit to the director Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed Any allowance in relation to relocation will provide for the and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred.
Performance measures and clawback None.
Remuneration policy for executive directors ANNUAL BONUS Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures and clawback Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic business Typically, executive directors bonus measures are weighted so that: targets and delivery of personal objectives.
between 70% and 85% of the bonus is based on achievement Deferred element encourages long-term shareholding and of challenging financial performance measures e. g. profit discourages excessive risk taking.
before tax and amortisation, organic growth, cash-flow measures, etc.
with each measure operating independently of Operation the others: and Awarded annually based on performance in the year.
Targets are the remainder is linked to personal and or non-financial set annually and relate to the Group and or the business managed measures, which are strategic or operational in nature.
Each year, the committee may use its discretion to vary the exact Bonus outcome is determined by the committee after the year number of measures, as well as their relative weightings, and this end, based on annual performance against targets.
will be disclosed in the annual remuneration report.
Bonuses are paid in cash, but executives are required to defer any As a result of the number of factors taken into account in bonus payable in excess of 50% of their maximum bonus determining bonus, there is no minimum pay-out level.
Deferral is for a minimum period of three For illustrative purposes, in the event that only threshold has been years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the deferral period achieved, pay-out would be 35% of maximum, rising to full pay-out on deferred shares.
should achievement of a stretch performance level be achieved Bonuses are not pensionable.
for all measures assuming the non-financial performance measures were satisfied.
Maximum opportunity The deferred element of the bonus is not subject to any further Maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay per annum for the performance measures but is subject to clawback in certain CEO and the CFO.
The non-deferred part of the bonus, which is 125% of base pay per annum for any other executive director.
settled in cash, is also subject to clawback see separate section on page 84.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 81 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy for executive directors continued LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Incentivises executives to achieve the Companys long-term Maximum opportunity of 250% of base pay per annum for financial goals, as well as focus on value creation, whilst aligning the the CEO.
interests of executives with those of shareholders.
Maximum opportunity of 200% of base pay per annum for other executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are granted awards on an annual basis, which Performance measures and clawback vest over a period of at least three years subject to continued Awards vest based on performance over a period of at least three service and the achievement of a number of key financial years commencing with the financial year in which the performance measures.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the quantum of awards to Performance will be measured based on a combination of be made to each executive each year to ensure that they earnings per share growth, total shareholder return against a remain appropriate.
comparator group and average operating cash flow.
For awards Dividends or equivalents accrue during the vesting period on made in 2017, these were in the proportion of 40%, 30% and 30% awards that vest.
However, the committee retains the flexibility to amend these proportions, provided that no single measure will be The award is settled by the transfer of market-purchased shares a significantly greater proportion than the others.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant portion vests.
This increases on a All the released shares after tax must be retained until the straight-line basis up to 100% for performance in line with minimum shareholder requirement is met.
Targets are set out on page 97. shareholding requirement is 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the other executive directors.
Awards are subject to clawback in certain circumstances see below on page 84.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy The current executive directors receive cash allowances.
The CEO receives 25% of base pay as a cash allowance: the CFO and other As with base salary and other benefits, making available a suitable executive directors receive 20% of base pay.
retirement benefits package aids the recruitment and retention of high calibre executives, allowing such executives to provide for The level of award is kept under review by the committee and is their retirement.
intended to be broadly market comparable for the roles.
Operation Maximum opportunity and clawback G4S operates a defined contribution Group-wide personal Maximum opportunity of up to 25% of base pay for the CEO and pension plan in the UK in which executives may participate.
Alternatively, G4S may provide a cash allowance in lieu of a contribution into such plan.
82 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration policy for non-executive directors CHAIRMANS FEE Purpose Maximum opportunity To attract and retain a high calibre chairman by offering a Ordinarily, any increase in the chairmans fee would be in line with market-competitive fee, which also reflects the responsibilities and other increases for similar roles in other companies.
There are no performance-related elements.
Fees payable to the chairman and other non-executive directors in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the maximum specified in Operation the Companys articles of association for the relevant year.
The chairmans fee is disclosed each year in the Directors remuneration report.
The fees are reviewed annually by the committee.
The annual fee is an all-inclusive consolidated amount.
The committee retains the discretion to review the chairmans fee at any other time if appropriate.
The chairmans fee is reviewed against other companies of a similar size.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES EXCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN Purpose The NED fees are reviewed annually by the executive directors.
The board retains the discretion to review the NED fees at other To attract and retain high calibre non-executive directors NEDs times, as appropriate, to reflect any changes in responsibilities by offering market-competitive fees which should reflect the or commitment.
There are no performancerelated elements.
The basic fee covers committee membership and each NED is expected to participate in one or more board committees.
All the Operation fees are reviewed against other companies of a similar size.
NED fees including any additional fee for any additional role listed below are disclosed each year in the Directors Maximum opportunity remuneration report.
Ordinarily, any increase in the NEDs fees would be in line with other increases for similar roles in other companies.
With the exception of the chairman, the fees for NEDs are structured by composition build-up consisting of: Fees payable to non-executive directors including the chairman in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the maximum specified a base fee in the Companys articles of association for the relevant year.
an additional fee for chairing a committee an additional fee for the role of senior independent director.
BENEFITS Purpose Maximum opportunity Benefits may be provided from time to time in connection with Reasonable business expenses are not subject to a maximum, the chairman and other NEDs performing their roles, such as since these are not a benefit to the director.
business travel, subsistence and entertainment, accommodation Benefits and expenses will reflect the actual cost of provision.
and professional fees for tax and social security compliance, and other ancillary benefits.
Operation Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by the Company.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 83 Directors remuneration report continued the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant Notes to the directors remuneration policy individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion 1.
Performance measures of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
Annual Bonus Plan The actual performance measures and targets are set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning For these purposes, payments may include the committee of each year.
The performance measures used for our annual satisfying awards of variable remuneration.
In cases where all or bonus plan have been selected to reflect the Groups key part of the variable remuneration award was in the form of shares, performance indicators.
The committee aims to ensure that the the payment terms are those agreed at the time the award measures appropriately encourage the executive directors to was granted.
focus on the Companys strategic annual priorities, whilst the targets are set to be stretching but achievable.
Details of the vesting of the awards will be published in the annual remuneration report each year.
The aim is to strike an appropriate balance between incentivising The non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive annual financial and strategic business targets, and each executive directors key role-specific objectives for the year.
schemes nor do they receive any benefits other than those referred to in the above table.
Long Term Incentive Plan In choosing the performance measures for the Long Term Incentive Plan, the committee aims to 2.
Malus and claw-back mechanisms find a balance of measures which reflect the Companys long-term Since 2010, any cash and or shares awarded under the annual financial goals as well as incentivise executives to create bonus plans and the previous Performance Share Plan may be sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
The Long Term Incentive Plan and the annual Legacy plans The committee reserves the right to make any bonus plan may be subject to malus or clawback from the remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office executive director concerned if the Remuneration Committee so including exercising any discretions available to it in connection determines and, in the case of misstatement of accounts, where with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Audit Committee concurs.
The time period in which the the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were clawback can be operated depends on the reason for the agreed i before 5 June 2014 the date the companys first overpayment as set out in the table below.
shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy came into The amount to be clawed back directly from the executive effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, director will be the overpaid amount, but the Remuneration provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Committee retains the discretion to claw back the net i. e. shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at post-tax amount of the award received by the executive director.
Annual Bonus Plan Malus and claw-back including deferred elements Long term incentive plan LTIP Since 2015 plan PSP previous Current LTIP Material misstatement of up to 2 years after the up to 2 years after vesting up to 2 years after vesting Group financial accounts payment of the cash element except where due to fraud or reckless behaviour when it shall be 6 years after vesting Misconduct up to 6 years after the up to 6 years after vesting payment of the cash element Fraud unlimited unlimited When determining the remuneration of a newly-appointed Principles and approach to recruitment and internal executive director, the Remuneration Committee will apply the promotion of directors following principles: When hiring a new executive director, or promoting to the board from within the Group, the committee will offer a package that is The on-going remuneration package to be designed in accordance with the policyabove.
sufficient to retain and motivate and, if relevant, attract the right talent whilst at all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
New executive directors will participate in the annual bonus Ordinarily, remuneration for a new executive director will be in scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan on the same basis as line with the policy set out in the table summarised above.
However, discretion may be required for exceptional The Remuneration Committee has discretion to grant one-off circumstances such as dealing with remuneration relinquished in a cash or share-based awards to executive directors where it previous job.
determines that such an award is necessary to secure the The maximum level of on-going variable pay that may be awarded recruitment of that executive director and where it is in the to new executive directors on recruitment or on promotion to best interests of the company to do so.
Such awards would the board shall be limited to 400% of base salary as set out in the only be made as compensation for remuneration relinquished policy above calculated at the date of grant, excluding any under a previous employment i. e. buy-out arrangements and buy-out awards see below.
Remuneration and any buy-out would be intended to mirror forfeited awards as far as possible arrangements will be announced as far as possible at the time a by reflecting the value, nature, time horizons and performance new executive director or chairman is appointed, or in the measures attached.
In such circumstances, the Company will following Directors remuneration report.
disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such one-off awards.
In certain circumstances, it may be necessary to buy out long notice periods of previous employment.
84 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance With regard to internal promotions, any commitments made Non-executive directors letters of appointment: before promotion and unconnected with the individuals Appointment is subject to the provisions of the articles of promotion may continue to be honoured even if they would association of the Company, as amended from time to time not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when regarding appointment, retirement, fees, expenses, the commitment is fulfilled.
disqualification and removal of directors.
For external and internal appointments, the Remuneration All continuing non-executive directors are required to stand Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain for re-election by the shareholders at least once every three relocation expenses including legal fees, as set out in years, although they have agreed to submit themselves for the policy.
re-election annually in accordance with the UK Corporate In determining the approach for all relevant elements, the Governance Code.
Remuneration Committee will consider a number of factors, Initial period of appointment is two years.
including but not limited to external market practice, current All reasonably-incurred expenses will be met.
arrangements for existing executive directors and other internal relativities.
Fees are normally reviewed annually.
Service contracts Loss-of-office payment Shareholders are entitled to inspect a copy of executive directors The duration of the notice period in the executive directors service contracts at the companys head office and at the AGM.
Executive directors service contracts all have the The Remuneration Committee would consider the application of following features: mitigation obligations in relation to any termination payments.
Contracts are drafted in line with best practice at the time the The contracts do not provide for the payment of a guaranteed executive directors were appointed.
bonus in the event of termination.
Neither Ashley Almanza nor Terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
Tim Weller will be eligible for bonus accrual during any period of garden leave.
Specific provisions for Ashley Almanza and Tim Wellers contracts dated 2013 and 2016 respectively include: In relation to Mr Almanza, the value of the termination payment would cover the balance of any salary and associated benefits Upon his appointment, following board approval, Ashley payments due to be paid for the remaining notice period, the Almanza was allowed to hold two external non-executive value of which will be determined by the Remuneration appointments and retain the fees paid to him for the Committee.
In relation to Mr Weller, the value of the termination appointments.
Following Ashley Almanza stepping down from payment would amount to the balance of any salary due to be the board of Schroders plc in April 2016, he remains a paid for the remaining notice period multiplied by 1.25 to reflect non-executive director of Noble Corporation.
Mr Almanzas the value of contractual benefits during such period.
The contract of employment was subsequently amended to reflect Remuneration Committee would also retain the discretion to this reduction in the number of non-executive directorships he make appropriate payments necessary to finalise any settlement holds.
Tim Weller is allowed to hold one external non-executive agreement, but in exercising such discretion the Remuneration appointment and retain any fees paid directly to him for the Committee would remain mindful to ensure that there was no appointment.
He is currently non-executive director of the reward for failure.
The fees for outplacement services and reasonable legal fees in Mitigation obligations on termination payments are explicitly connection with advice on a settlement agreement may be met by included in the executive directors contracts.
for Ashley Almanza and Tim Weller are payable monthly.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 85 Directors remuneration report continued The table below illustrates how each component of pay would be calculated under different circumstances: Plan Automatic good leaver categories Treatment for good leavers Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus All leavers other than voluntary Executive directors may receive a Bonus opportunity will lapse.
cash element resignation and summary dismissal.
bonus to be paid on the normal payment date and in accordance with the agreed performance measures but reduced pro-rata to reflect the time employed.
Annual bonus Injury, disability or ill health Deferred shares may be released if the Deferred share awards will lapse.
deferred share executive director ceases employment Redundancy element prior to the third anniversary as a result Retirement of one of the good leaver reasons.
Death Termination without cause Change of control or sale of employing company or business Any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Long Term Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant vesting Awards will lapse.
Incentive Plan date on a time-apportioned basis, Redundancy unless the Remuneration Committee Retirement determines otherwise, and subject to Death the achievement of performance measures at the relevant vesting date.
Change of control or sale of employing company The vesting date for such awards will or business normally be the original vesting date, unless otherwise determined by the Any other circumstances Remuneration Committee.
at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee As directors may leave employment for a wide range of reasons, the committee retains discretion to approve payments where the reason for leaving does not fall precisely within the prescribed good leaver category.
The committee will take account of the directors performance in office and the circumstances of their exit.
The committee will seek to balance the interests of shareholders, the departing director and the remaining directors.
Any awards subject to performance conditions would be assessed at the end of the relevant period and be subject to time apportionment.
Corporate Action If the Company is subject to a change in control, the Long Term Incentive Plan provides that awards will vest subject to the performance targets having been satisfied up to the date of the change of control and, unless the committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
On a variation of share capital, other reorganisation of the Company, or a demerger of a substantial part of the Groups business, the committee may make such adjustment to awards as it may determine to be appropriate.
The bar charts above set out the effect of the executive directors remuneration policy as it will apply in 2017 and based on the assumptions set out below: Minimum Threshold Maximum Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2017 Benefits amount received by Group CEO in 2016 including business expenses classified by HMRC as benefits but which the company does not consider to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
The figure is an estimate for the Group CFO Retirement benefits 25% of salary for Ashley Almanza, 20% of salary for Tim Weller Annual bonus No payout 35% of the maximum payout 100% of the maximum payout i. e. 52.5% of salary for Ashley i. e. 150% of salary for Ashley Almanza and Tim Weller Almanza and Tim Weller Long-term incentives No vesting 25% vesting under the LTIP 100% of the maximum payout i. e. 62.5% of salary for Ashley i. e. 250% of salary for Ashley Almanza and 50% of salary Almanza and 200% of salary for Tim Weller for Tim Weller Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 87 Minimum On-target performance Maximum performance Minimum On-target performance Maximum performance Directors remuneration report continued Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The structure of the executive directors pay policy is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of the senior management within the Group, although the levels of award will be different.
The performance measures that apply in the variable element of the remuneration will reflect the relevant areas of responsibilities.
There may be one-off awards for retaining scarce and critical individuals below board level.
Remuneration of employees globally will depend on local regulation and practice, taking any collective bargaining agreements into account, where they exist.
Elements of remuneration Availability Fixed Pay Available to all employees worldwide Pensions Available to most employees in developed markets Variable Annual bonus Available to all senior managers worldwide Long term incentive plan Available to some senior managers worldwide Benefits Car or car allowance Available to all senior managers worldwide Life Income protection insurance Available to most employees in developed markets Private Healthcare Available to all senior managers in markets where it is commonly provided Across the Group the Company seeks to pay competitively, taking into account external benchmarking and internal moderation at each level to ensure that remuneration is in line with market practice.
When determining base salary increases for executive directors, the Remuneration Committee pays particular attention to the data at senior manager level.
At G4S, the committee does not normally consult directly with employees as part of the process of determining the remuneration policy and pay decisions for executive directors and has not therefore done so in setting this remuneration policy.
However, employee surveys are carried out biennially which help determine employees views of their own pay and benefits, as well as those of colleagues in general.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views We are committed to on-going engagement on key remuneration issues and seek our major shareholders views prior to proposing any major change in policy.
This provides us with valuable feedback and we take into consideration these views and seek to reflect them in our policy.
The chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available to answer any questions and listen to the views of our shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
88 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION Executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2015.
Aggregate executive directors emoluments are shown in the final column of the table.
In relation to Himanshu Raja and Tim Weller, the information relates to the part years during which they have served as executive directors.
For Himanshu Raja, this includes the period when he was an executive director to 1 October 2016.
Payments made after that date, including any payment of loss of office, are shown on page 95. b.
For Tim Weller, this was from his appointment date as an executive director on 24 October 2016.
Prior to this date, Mr Weller was a non-executive director of the Company, and fees relating to his non-executive directorship of the Company are found on page 90.
Benefits include car allowance, business-related travel, healthcare, disability and life assurance.
Benefit values include the cost of certain travel, overnight accommodation, meals and memberships which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the Company has paid, or will in due course pay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
The grossed-up amounts for 2016 are 22,422 for Ashley Almanza and 15,435 for Himanshu Raja.
Benefit values also include local travel costs of 17,384 and 32,274 for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja respectively who bear the tax themselves, and contain other business costs which HMRC deems to be benefits.
The 2015 benefits values also include taxes met by the Company in respect of certain expenses which were incurred in the prior year.
2015 benefit values for Ashley Almanza also include the grossed-up costs of security measures, as well as the installation of a security system at his home, of 71,529.
Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares, which vest after a period of three years unless the individual ceases employment prior to the third anniversary and qualifies as a good leaver, in which case release of such deferred shares occurs shortly after termination of employment.
Mr Almanza received 652,735 of his bonus in the form of 221,116 shares deferred for three years.
Further information regarding 2016 bonus performance and resulting pay-outs is set out on page 91.
In addition, for 2016, Ashley Almanza received 37,618from Schroders plc, and a fee of $95,000 as well as shares, valued at $316,674 from Noble Corporation from his non-executive directorships referred to on page 85, and retained such remuneration.
In addition, since becoming an executive director of G4S plc on 24 October 2016, Mr Weller received and retained 3,214 from the Carbon Trust for his non-executive directorship for the remainder of the year under review.
Mr Wellers annual fee in relation to this appointment is 17,000 per annum.
In relation to the LTIP-PSP column, vesting of awards in 2015 relates to the PSP, whereas vesting of awards in 2016 relates to the long term incentive plan approved by the shareholders in 2014.
Further information regarding performance and vesting of the 2014 LTIP is set out on page 93.
In relation to Mr Almanza, the PSP figure for 2015 has been updated to include the vesting of a PSP award he received in May 2013 upon becoming CEO, which vested in May 2016.
Mr Almanza retained 57,969 shares after tax and NI contributions were met.
The deemed value of these shares was 1.869 per share.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 89 Directors remuneration report continued Non-executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each non-executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2015.
Aggregate non-executive directors emoluments are shown in the last column of the table.
John Connollys fee was increased to 375,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2016.
For 2016, benefit values for Mr Connolly include the grossed-up costs for security measures, as well as the installation of a security system at his home, of 97,506.
Mark Elliott stepped down as chair of the Remuneration Committee and retired as a non-executive director on 26 May 2016.
Adam Crozier retired as a non-executive director on 26 May 2016.
Tim Weller stepped down as chair of the Audit Committee on 15 August 2016 and as a non-executive director on 23 October 2016.
John Daly took over as chair of the Remuneration Committee on 27 May 2016.
Steve Mogford was appointed as a non-executive director on 27 May 2016 and is the Senior Independent Director.
Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2016.
Benefit values include the cost of overnight accommodation, travel and meals, which HMRC treats as taxable benefits and on which the company has paid, or will in due course pay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
Further notes to the single total figure of remuneration tables audited information New executive directors remuneration As mentioned previously, Tim Weller joined the board in April 2013 as a non-executive director and became an executive director of the Company when he took on the role of chief financial officer on 24 October 2016.
The various components of his remuneration, as approved by the committee in line with the directors remuneration policy, are as follows: Base pay of 643,750 per annum for 2016.
Benefits include a car allowance of 18,000 per annum, 25 days holiday, private health care and life insurance.
Participation in the annual bonus scheme with a maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay.
Under this scheme, any bonus payable in excess of 50% of maximum entitlement is required to be deferred as shares with a deferral period of three years.
Participation in the Companys 2016 LTIP an award of 544,736 conditional shares of G4S plc under the Companys LTIP was granted on a pro-rata basis, relative to his start date as CFO and the vesting period of 36 months, with a deemed date of grant of March 2016.
The vesting of such award will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over a three-year period beginning in the deemed year of grant.
Further information is set out on page 94.
Cash allowance of 20% of base pay per annum in lieu of pension.
Compensation for the amounts Mr Weller forfeited in relation to variable remuneration arrangements in place with his previous employer relating to 2014 and 2015 performance share plans.
The Remuneration Committee agreed the grant of an award of 100,000 shares on equivalent terms to the Companys 2015 LTIP and a further award of 250,000 shares on equivalent terms to the Companys 2016 LTIP.
These conditional awards were granted on 8 November 2016, with deemed dates of grant of March 2015 and March 2016 respectively.
In addition, Mr Weller may be entitled to receive compensation for the forfeiture of his 2016 bonus from his previous employer, Such compensation would consist of a conditional award of up to a maximum of 100,000 shares on equivalent terms to the Companys 2016 LTIP, which is subject to performance and employment conditions.
90 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 2016 Annual bonus During the financial year ending 31 December 2016, the performance measures relating to the annual bonus scheme rules were consistent with the current Policy, with 85% of the bonus for Ashley Almanza and 70% for Messrs Raja and Weller being based on achievement of challenging financial performance measures.
The financial performance measures were based on budgeted group earnings excluding specific and other separately disclosed items and budgeted Group operating cash flow before capital expenditure and pension deficit repayment.
On-target performance would result in a payment of 60% of maximum entitlement, with 100% only being earned in the event of achievement of a stretch performance significantly in excess of budget.
The element of bonus determined for each financial performance measure is calculated by interpolating actual achievement against the range between the minimum i. e. entry threshold and the maximum target to achieve maximum performance.
The remaining 15% of the bonus for Mr Almanza and 30% for Messrs Raja and Weller was linked to objectives relating to non-financial performance, which consisted of personal objectives or relate to the organisation and which were linked to specific elements of the Groups strategy for which the directors concerned had responsibility.
The maximum bonus potential remained unchanged from 2015.
It was 150% of base pay for Messrs Almanza, Raja and Weller.
Bonuses are paid in cash up to 50% of maximum entitlement.
Where the bonus amount is in excess of 50% of the maximum bonus potential, the amount which exceeds 50% will be delivered in the form of a deferred share award which vests after a period of three years.
The tables below show how pay was linked to performance in 2016 and set out details of each of the financial measures, the targets in respect of these measures and the actual outcomes: 2016 annual bonus Performance conditions and outcomes Ashley Almanza Weighting Score achieved % of maximum Threshold to To achieve % of total for Financial measures bonus earn bonus Target full vesting Achievement each measure Group Earnings 50% 223.2m 230.1m 237.1m 246m 100% Group OCF 35% 563.5m 580.9m 599.2m 663m 100% Total 85% n a n a n a n a 100% Personal objectives Mr Almanza was able to earn up to 15% of the maximum bonus potential for achieving personal objectives.
These were designed to align with the strategic priorities for 2016 see pages 12 to 13 and were set out in the 2015 Remuneration report.
Mr Almanzas 2016 personal objectives were: Embed a stronger health and safety culture Improve efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation, people and culture Implement market and product specific strategies Strengthen contract controls and take-on processes Significant progress was made in delivering all these areas, including implementation of organisation restructures, launch of the new values and the expansion of technology and innovative service offerings to new markets.
Health and safety processes have improved and there has been a material reduction in road-related fatalities, however safety remains an area where further improvement is required.
Therefore Mr Almanzas performance in relation to his personal objectives was assessed at 80% of the maximum potential.
Himanshu Raja Weighting % of Score achieved maximum Threshold to To achieve % of total for Financial measures bonus earn bonus Target full vesting Achievement each measure Group Earnings 35% 223.2m 230.1m 237.1m 246m 100% Group OCF 35% 563.5m 580.9m 599.2m 663m 100% Total 70% n a n a n a n a 100% Following his retirement from the board of G4S plc on 1 October 2016, Mr Raja remained eligible for an annual bonus in respect of the year under review subject to the applicable performance conditions being met.
The 2016 annual bonus was determined on a pro-rata basis for the number of whole months worked in the bonus year at the normal time for the payment of annual bonuses.
30% of Mr Rajas bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures.
The Remuneration Committee recognised that Mr Raja had put in place strong foundations for the transformation of the finance, risk management and procurement functions.
His 2016 objectives focused specifically on organisational efficiency, including procurement savings, integrated IT systems development and implementation, cash flow and capital expenditure management as well as fiscal efficiency, and in aggregate his performance was assessed as on target across these areas.
70% of Mr Rajas bonus potential was based on achievement of financial performance targets, namely Group Earnings of 230.1m and Group OCF of 580.9m.
Following stretch financial performance being met and the achievement of on-target personal objectives, Mr Rajas total bonus entitlement was 637,312.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 91 Directors remuneration report continued Tim Weller Weighting % of Score achieved maximum Threshold to To achieve % of total for Financial measures bonus earn bonus Target full vesting Achievement each measure Group Earnings 35% 223.2m 230.1m 237.1m 246m 100% Group OCF 35% 563.5m 580.9m 599.2m 663m 100% Total 70% n a n a n a n a 100% Personal objectives Mr Weller, who became an executive director in October 2016 was able to earn up to 30% of the maximum bonus potential for achieving personal objectives.
The personal objectives for the CFO role were set at the beginning of the year to align with the strategic priorities for 2016.
These were set out in the 2016 Remuneration report and were as follows: Organisational efficiency including procurement savings Integrated IT systems development and implementation Cash flow and capital expenditure management Fiscal efficiency The strong performance in procurement savings achieved, and in cash flow and capital expenditure management in particular have resulted in a level of achievement for his non-financial objectives of 21 out of 30, or 70%.
Mr Wellers bonus entitlement was pro-rated over the period in 2016, from 24 October 2016, when he became chief financial officer.
The table below sets out the annual bonus awards which were made to executive directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016, based on the performance described above: 2016 annual 2016 annual bonus bonus deferred 2016 annual bonus % of salary % of salary Ashley Almanza 1,347,136 146% 70.5% Himanshu Raja 637,312 132% n a 136% of salary earned in Tim Weller 166,945 the period from 24 October n a Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of three years.
Cash Deferred shares Ashley Almanza 694,400 652,736 Himanshu Raja 637,312 0 Tim Weller 166,945 0 Mr Wellers bonus was paid fully in cash.
In coming to this decision, the Remuneration Committee, having taken account of the fact that any compensation for the forfeiture of Mr Wellers bonus from his previous employer would consist of an award under the Companys LTIP, subject to both employment and performance conditions, concluded that the deferral element of the Companys deferred bonus had been satisfied.
92 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Long term incentive plan LTIP The 2016 values shown in the fourth column of the single-figure table relate to the LTIP awards made in July 2014, with a deemed award date of March 2014.
2015 values shown in that column of the single-figure table relate to the PSP awards made in March and May 2013.
The performance measures and targets of these awards are set out below: Performance measures and targets for PSP 2013 award Half of each award Half of each award Average annual growth Ranking against the bespoke in EPS period ending on Proportion of comparator group by Proportion of 31 December in the third year allocation vesting reference to TSR allocation vesting Less than global Nil Below median Nil CPI 4% pa Global CPI 4% pa 25% Median 25% 11% over 3 years Global CPI 4 Pro-rata between Between median Pro-rata between to 11% pa 25% and 100% and upper quartile 25% and 100% Greater than global CPI 100% Upper quartile 100% 11% pa 33% over 3 years Performance measures and targets for the 2014 LTIP awards 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth in EPS Ranking against period ending on Proportion the bespoke Proportion Average Proportion 31 December of allocation comparator group of allocation operating of allocation in the third year vesting by reference to TSR vesting cash flow vesting Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% 25% Median 25% 105% 25% over 3 years 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata Between Pro-rata Between Pro-rata between 25% median and between 105% and between 25% and 100% upper quartile 25% and 100% 125% and 100% Greater than 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 12% pa 36% over 3 years The table below illustrates the Companys performance against the 2013 PSP award targets and the resulting payout as shown in the 2015 column of the single figure table: Measure Performance Vesting % of element Average annual growth in EPS Increase of 8.1% pa 53% th th Relative TSR Ranked between 14 and 15 in peer group 0% Total vesting 26.5% of maximum The table below illustrates the companys performance against the 2014 LTIP award targets and the resulting payout as shown in the 2016 values in the fourth column of the single figure table: Measure Performance Vesting % of element Average annual growth in EPS Increase of 15.3% pa 40% rd th Relative TSR Ranked between 43 and 44 in peer group 0% Average OCF 129% 30% Total vesting 70% of maximum Vesting under the 2014 LTIP was 70% of maximum as a result of both maximum performance being achieved, both on an adjusted and non-adjusted basis for both annual growth in EPS and average OCF elements.
Relative TSR performance was impacted by fluctuations to the share price in the performance period and did not result in any pay-out for this measure of the 2014 LTIP.
In the same period, dividend payments to shareholders were maintained throughout the relevant period and dividends totalling 428m were distributed to shareholders.
The Companys credit rating at BBBlong-term and A-3 short-term with a Negative outlook was maintained.
Total pension entitlements audited information None of the executive directors is a member of the Groups pension plan, which is a defined contribution group personal pension plan available to all UK employees.
Instead the CEO and CFO receive cash allowances of 25% and 20% of their base pay, respectively.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 93 Directors remuneration report continued SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED INFORMATION Awards under the LTIP approved by the shareholders at the Companys AGM in June 2014 were made in March 2016 consistent with the Companys normal grant policy.
Details of the awards made to the executive directors are summarised in the table below and further details are given in the table on directors shareholdings and interests below: Number Face EPS, TSR and AOCF % vesting at Director Award type of shares value Performance condition Performance period threshold Ashley Almanza Conditional shares 1,259,114 2,314,668 40% EPS 30% TSR 30% AOCF 01 01 2016 31 12 2018 25% Himanshu Raja Conditional shares 700,363 1,287,500 40% EPS 30% TSR 30% AOCF 01 01 2016 31 12 2018 25% Tim Weller Conditional shares 794,736 1,460,963 40% EPS 30% TSR 30% AOCF 01 01 2016 31 12 2018 25% Tim Weller Conditional shares 100,000 290,600 40% EPS 30%TSR 30%AOCF 01 01 2015 31 12 2017 25% Notes: 1.
The face-value calculation for all awards deemed granted in March 2016 was based on a share price of 1.8383 which represents the average closing share price during the three business days following the announcement of the Companys 2015 financial results.
The face-value calculation for the 100,000 share award to Mr Weller, deemed granted in March 2015, was based on a share price of 2.906 which represents the average closing share price during the three business days following the announcement of the Companys 2014 financial results.
Further details on performance conditions are set out in the table below.
Any vesting of Mr Rajas award will be pro-rated to 1 October 2016.
Tim Weller was granted 350,000 conditional shares by deed of grant on 8 November 2016, 100,000 of which were deemed granted in March 2015 and 250,000 of which were deemed granted in March 2016.
Tim Weller was also granted 544,736 conditional shares by deed of grant on 22 November 2016.
The conditional award is deemed for the purposes of the Plan, including the performance conditions, as having been granted on the original grant date of 15 March 2016.
Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2016 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth Ranking against the in EPS period ending Proportion bespoke comparator Proportion Average Proportion on 31 December in of allocation group by reference to of allocation operating of allocation the third year vesting TSR vesting cash flow vesting Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 3 years 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between Between median Pro-rata between Between 105% and Pro-rata between 25% and 100% and upper quartile 25% and 100% 125% 25% and 100% Greater than 12% pa 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 36% over 3 years The bespoke comparator group consists of companies constituent of the FTSE 100 index corrected to exclude financial institutions and companies in the extractive sector, and include competitor companies which are outside that index.
The Companys Current Policy is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy LTIP awards.
Participants in the LTIP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of LTIP awards vesting at the end of the performance period.
The Company calculates whether the EPS performance target has been achieved by reference to the Groups audited accounts, which provide an accessible and objective measure of the Groups earnings per share.
The average OCF performance target is calculated by reference to the relevant definition set out in the LTIP rules approved by shareholders.
The committee may alter the terms of the EPS measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer incentivising.
TSR ranking will be verified externally.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interest audited information The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in G4S, as explained in the remuneration policy.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 235p per share at 31 December 2016.
Shareholding Further shares Total shares under Share ownership requirements Number of acquired or LTIP awards subject requirements achieved at Deferred shares deferred since to performance 2016 2015 % of salary 31 12 16 held as at 31 12 16 31 12 2016 at 31 12 16 Ashley Almanza 466,777 150,000 200% 118.4% 452,559 611,117 3,010,111 Himanshu Raja n a 100,000 150% n a n a n a 788,798 Tim Weller 37,570 n a 150% 13.7% n a n a 894,736 Notes: 1.
Deferred share awards and PSP or LTIP awards do not include the further shares with a value equivalent to the dividends which are paid in respect of shares received.
The number of shares is gross and will be subject to tax when they are released.
In addition to the above, each of the directors has a deemed interest in the total number of shares held by the Companys employee benefit trust.
As at 31 December 2016, the trustees of the employee benefit trust held 4,844,243 shares 2015 6,320,144 shares.
Includes any shares owned by persons closely associated with the directors.
Since 31 December 2016, Mr Almanza received 221,116 deferred shares on 14 March 2017 relating to the deferred element of the 2016 annual bonus and a further 390,001 shares on 20 March upon the vesting of the 2014 LTIP.
The total shares under LTIP awards subject to performance for Mr Raja takes into account the pro-rated forfeitures following his departure.
Details of share awards granted to Mr Weller under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan are set out in the above scheme interests awarded during the financial year table.
94 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The shareholdings for non-executive directors are shown below.
contractual benefits, calculated and paid in two instalments as follows: As at 31.12.2016 As at 31.12.2015 John Connolly 309,642 209,642 the sum of 349,322 paid in October 2016 comprising Adam Crozier n a 2,000 281,641 in respect of base salary, 56,328 in respect of pension allowance, 7,875 in respect of car allowance and John Daly 30,000 n a 3,478 being the value of contractual benefits : Mark Elliott n a 25,000 the sum of 23,518 in respect of holiday pay was also paid in Winnie Fok 20,000 20,000 1 October 2016: and Steve Mogford 0 n a Paul Spence 20,000 20,000 a further 349,322, calculated on the same basis, payable in April 2017, six months after the termination of employment, Clare Spottiswoode 4,681 4,681 subject to reduction under his service agreement for any Barbara Thoralfson 0 n a expected income from alternative employment.
2 Tim Weller n a 37,570 Past annual deferred bonus plans 1.
Since 31 December 2016, Mr Mogford acquired 10,000 shares on The balance of past annual bonuses deferred to shares 13 March 2017. awarded in March 2014, 2015 and 2016, totalling 272,411 2.
Mr Weller was a non-executive director of the Company until shares, plus 17,440 additional shares due to dividends accrued 24 October 2016 when he became an executive director chief financial officer.
Details of his current shareholdings are set out in the table on up to and including June 2016, minus such shares sold on page 94. behalf of Mr Raja as necessary to reimburse the Company for the amount of income tax and national insurance contributions There are no requirements for the non-executive directors to arising as a result of the transfer, were released to Mr Raja hold shares nor for any former directors to hold shares once they shortly after the termination of his employment.
Long Term Incentive Plans PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION Taking account of Mr Raja having put into place strong foundations for the transformation of the finance, risk and procurement Grahame Gibson functions, the committee exercised its discretion to determine Grahame Gibson, who stepped down as a director of the that Mr Rajas LTIP awards would not lapse and would vest at Company on 4 June 2015, ceased to be an employee on the normal vesting date pro-rated to the date of cessation 20 October 2015.
Details of payments for loss of office in prior of employment.
years are set out on page 87 of the Companys integrated report The LTIP award made in 2014 vested on 20 March 2017 when and accounts 2015 available at www.
Details relating to Mr Rajas Mr Gibsons unvested awards made in 2014 and 2015 under the remaining award of shares, pro-rated accordingly, are set out in LTIP remained subject to performance and were pro-rated to the table below: 20 October 2015.
Performance is to be tested at the normal Date of award Vesting date Shares awarded Pro-rated vesting dates.
Total shares 1,684,068 788,798 PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED INFORMATION Legal and adviser expenses Himanshu Raja The Company covered legal fees incurred by Mr Raja in connection In accordance with the Companys announcement dated with the settlement agreement in an amount of 5,000 plus VAT, 15 August 2016, Mr Raja stepped down from the board of the and outplacement fees if any in connection with career transition Company and his role as chief financial officer on 1 October 2016. in an amount of 30,000 plus VAT.
Payments were made directly On the same day, in accordance with section 430 2B of the to Mr Rajas advisers.
Companies Act 2006, details of remuneration arrangements relating thereto were published on the Companys website www.
In accordance with Section 16 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, details of Mr Rajas remuneration arrangement are provided below.
Mr Raja entered into a settlement agreement with the Company which provides for the payments and benefits set out below.
All remuneration payments made so far or remaining to be made to Mr Raja are in accordance with the terms of his service agreement with the Company and the terms of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy.
Salary and contractual benefits Mr Raja continued to receive salary and benefits in respect of the period up to and including 1 October 2016 in the usual way.
Thereafter, he received a payment in lieu of his 12 month notice period PILON of 698,644 representing base salary and Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 95 Directors remuneration report continued PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The line graph shows the eight-year annual Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index.
The directors believe this to be an appropriate form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison, given the size and geographic coverage of the Company.
Nick Buckles stepped down as CEO on 31 May 2013 and Ashley Almanza took over as CEO from 1 June 2013.
After July 2011, the CEOs total single figure of annual remuneration included payment in lieu of pension.
This was 40% of base pay for Nick Buckles and is 25% of base pay for Ashley Almanza.
Prior to July 2011, a notional sum equal to 40% of relevant base pay has been included.
The value of shares that vested in the relevant year under the PSP or a notional value in the case of shares vested but unexercised has been included in the prior years CEOs total figures, since that is the most relevant year for measurement of performance.
The figures before 2013 did not include taxable expenses PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEOS REMUNERATION The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK-based G4S employees.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen all employees in the UK who were in employment during the two-year period 2015 and 2016 as the Group which should provide the most appropriate comparator, as the Group CEO is based in the UK.
Percentage change in remuneration between 2015 and 2016 Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 1.0% 42.3% 40.8% Average change for all other UK employees 4.0% See note below See note below Notes: 1.
Mr Almanzas benefit values for 2015 include a one-off cost, details of which are set out in the notes to the table on page 89.
The above inflation increase in salary for UK employees reflects the alignment of pay practices with the new National Living Wage.
The core benefit composition and the underlying employee entitlements remain unchanged over the two-year period, with changes linked to increases in premium rates and costs of procurement.
Information on bonuses is not readily available for all other UK employees.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from profit.
2016 2015 Change Dividends paid 145m 145m Total employee costs 5,240m 4,792m 9.3% There were no share buy-backs effected in either year.
96 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Tim Weller STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION Organisational efficiency of finance functions POLICY IN 2017 Delivery of integrated IT systems Decisions were taken on the basis of the directors remuneration policy approved in 2014 and will be implemented in accordance Procurement efficiency with that policy, and in accordance with the directors Details of the performance measures and targets are deemed to remuneration policy after the Companys 2017 AGM, if approved.
be commercially sensitive since they relate to the 2017 financial year.
To the extent that they are no longer commercially sensitive, Our remuneration policy for directors as set out on pages 80 to targets and performance levels against them will be disclosed in 88 will, if approved, take effect following the Companys 2017 the Companys 2017 annual report and accounts.
The proposed AGM and will then be implemented as set out below.
target levels for 2017 have been set to be challenging and align with the Groups strategic priorities and business plan.
In reviewing Executive directors remuneration the targets, the committee took into account a number of factors, Base pay including for example the fact that in relation to group earnings, For 2017, at the annual pay review, it was decided to increase the minimum target that needs to be met in order for any bonus Mr Almanzas base pay by 1.5% from 925,867 to 939,755.
No to be payable must be at least equal to the earnings in 2016.
The change was made to Mr Wellers base pay.
committee considered the proposed targets relating to nonfinancial measures and concluded that these were also demanding.
Annual Bonus Scheme Long Term Incentive Plan The annual bonus for the 2017 financial year will operate on the same basis as that for 2016 and will be consistent with the existing The level of awards due to be granted in the 2017 financial year and proposed remuneration policy.
The maximum bonus under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will opportunity remains at 150% of base pay for both Ashley Almanza be consistent with the existing and proposed remuneration policy.
The financial measures are group earnings and As for 2016, the committee considers that a combination of operating cash flow.
These have been selected as they support the earnings per share growth, total shareholder return and average Companys key strategic objectives.
As for last year, the financial cash flow targets are the most appropriate performance measures measures are allocated weightings of 85% and 70% for Ashley for the 2017 awards, as they provide a robust method of assessing Almanza and Tim Weller respectively.
The non-financial measures the Companys performance, both in terms of underlying financial will therefore account for up to 15% and 30% of their maximum performance and returns to shareholders.
bonus opportunity for Messrs Almanza and Weller respectively.
Awards granted under the LTIP during the 2017 financial year are These non-financial measures are based on the Groups strategy subject to the performance conditions listed in the table below: and core values and include the following key areas: Ashley Almanza Improve health and safety performance Update growth and innovation strategy Continue to strengthen Global leadership team Substantially complete portfolio programme Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2017 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth in EPS Ranking against period ending on Proportion the bespoke Proportion Average Proportion 31 December of allocation comparator group of allocation operating of allocation in the third year vesting by reference to TSR vesting cash flow vesting Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 3 years 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata Between median Pro-rata between Between 105% and Pro-rata between between 25% and upper quartile 25% and 100% 125% 25% and 100% and 100% Greater than 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 12% pa 36% over 3 years The Companys current policy is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy LTIP awards.
The Company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by reference to the Groups audited accounts, which provide an accessible and objective measure of the Groups earnings per share.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 97 Directors remuneration report continued Adjustments to EPS will be made in respect of: The Remuneration Committee will apply discretion in the event of impairment.
If the impairment is not a result of management Constant exchange rates in line with previous years, these failure, then it will not impact the payout.
will be normalised to the rates in the base year The Remuneration Committee may alter the terms of the EPS Acquisitions earnings will be added to the EPS base at the measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no level used in the acquisition business case longer incentivising.
Disposals earnings will be removed from the EPS base at the Operating cash flow is a measure taken before capital expenditure business plan rate and investments to ensure that management is not incentivised Share buy-back the Company will only execute buy-backs if to under-invest in growth opportunities and before pension the investment is economically accretive and it is in the interest deficit repayment.
Operating cash flow is expressed as EBITDA of the Company.
The adjusted EPS for the purposes of - working capital and provisions movement as a percentage calculating performance against the LTIP target shall be further of EBITDA.
Average operating cash flow is the average over adjusted by: three years.
a increasing the average number of shares in issue during the TSR ranking will be verified externally.
performance year by the number of shares bought back during the past three years Non-executive directors remuneration b decreasing the net interest cost in the performance year in The fees payable to the non-executive directors other than the respect of the interest charge on the cash cost of any share chairman are set by the executive directors and the chairman.
buy-backs during the past three years.
Interest will be The fees payable to the non-executive chairman are set by the calculated at the Groups average costs of funds for the year.
In both cases, fees are reviewed mid-year.
ADVISORS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Deloitte was appointed as the Remuneration Committees advisor in 2014 and such appointment was reviewed and confirmed in August 2016.
The committee received advice from Deloitte on executive and senior management remuneration matters throughout the year under review.
The committee has satisfied itself as to the independence of Deloitte.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under its code of conduct in the UK.
Advisor Appointment Services provided to Remuneration Committee Fees for services to Rem Co Other services provided to Company Deloitte 2014 Advice on executive remuneration 49,440 Advice on controls, tax advice on expatriate and share plans, and other consulting services.
These services were provided by different parts of Deloitte.
Fees for services to the Remuneration Committee are at an agreed rate based on time involved and paid as incurred Herbert Smith Freehills LLP provided legal advice to the Company, STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING including in relation to Mr Rajas remuneration arrangements and A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy as the operation of the Companys incentive arrangements.
This advice set out in the Companys annual report for the year ended was available to be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
31 December 2013 was passed at the Companys annual general The group chief executive, Ashley Almanza, provided guidance to meeting held on 5 June 2014.
At the Companys annual general the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives meeting held on 26 May 2016, a resolution was passed to approve within the group.
Further guidance was received from the Groups the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part HR director, Jenni Myles, and the director of compensation and containing the summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy benefits, Sok Wah Lee.
Neither the group chief executive nor the for the year ended 31 December 2015. group HR director participated in discussions regarding their The results of the votes on these resolutions are set out in the own remuneration.
table below: The committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the Resolution For Against Withheld year was objective and independent based on the experience of Directors Remuneration its members generally.
Policy 2014 AGM 98.38% 1.62% 787,216 Information about who are the members of the Remuneration Directors Remuneration Committee and their attendance at meetings of the committee Report 2016 AGM 98% 2% 236,880 during the year under review can be found on page 78.
John Daly Remuneration Committee Chairman 28 March 2017 98 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
