STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Long-term incentive plan The 2014 SEP award lapsed as we did not reach the very challenging targets.
In order to start vesting, an annual compound growth rate of at least 6% in management earnings per share EPS was required.
While management EPS increased over the three-year performance period, it remained below 6% due to a combination of factors including operational issues, an increase in the cash tax rate and lower than anticipated end market growth.
As reported last year, from 2016 onwards EPS targets are set relative to actual automotive and aerospace end market growth.
This more accurately calibrates executive pay with performance against the Groups strategy of growing above our markets.
The 2012 SEP sustainability award vested as to 50% of maximum, reflecting that EPS in 2016 exceeded the highest annual level of EPS Dear Shareholder achieved during the 2012 SEP core performance period between 2012 and 2014.
This reflects the progress we have made in EPS I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for 2016. performance over the longer term.
Looking back remuneration outcomes in 2016 The SEP is cascaded to all levels of senior management in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
From time to time, Base salaries additional long-term incentive plans are put in place for employees Base salary increases for executive Directors ranged from 2% below Board level to increase focus on particular measures.
Awards to 2.5% taking into account performance and increases awarded under the 2015 SIRP were based on performance against targets elsewhere in the Group.
The average global increase for all relating to growth in management profit before tax over a two-year employees was 3.2%.
Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash were granted 2015 SIRP Annual bonus awards prior to their appointment to the Board: these awards vested Payouts based on Group and divisional performance against profit, in full.
Vested shares under this award are subject to a holding period margin, cash and strategic measures, underpinned by solid quality and will be released in February 2018. of earnings, ranged from 51.98% to 77.30% of salary.
Long-term incentives Looking forward proposed changes from 2017 The second year of the 2012 SEP sustainability award vested due Our remuneration policy and framework are key ingredients in driving to EPS performance in 2016 exceeding EPS performance in the the long-term success of the Group.
They are vital both for facilitating three-year performance period of the 2012 SEP core award.
the attraction and retention of high calibre individuals who can The 2014 Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP core award, which manage the Group successfully and for ensuring that executives are required compound annual EPS growth of at least 6%, lapsed appropriately incentivised and remunerated for their performance.
along with the associated 2014 sustainability award.
Principles The 2015 Share Incentive and Retention Plan SIRP award Our policy continues to be designed around three key principles granted to Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash prior to their which have underpinned our executive remuneration framework for appointment as Directors vested in full based on profit growth a number of years: in 2015 and 2016.
Alignment to GKN strategy and performance A significant element of executive remuneration is variable and Annual bonus plan linked to Group performance.
Our annual bonus plan rewards As described in the strategic report, GKN made good progress in the delivery of a balanced selection of financial and strategic 2016.
Management sales and profit before tax increased although measures while long-term incentives are designed to focus trading margin reduced due to restructuring and excess launch costs executives on our strategic objective of delivering sustainable in GKN Driveline.
STVRS payments reflected these elements together long-term earnings growth.
with a strong focus on cash and strategic measures such as the Aligning executives with shareholders integration of Fokker.
A substantial proportion of the remuneration package is delivered The Committee exercised its discretion to reduce payouts for Nigel in shares through the Deferred Bonus Plan and the SEP.
This Stein and Phil Swash following two fatalities in 2016 to reinforce the supports our shareholding requirement and creates a culture of Groups commitment to safety as our top priority.
share ownership, long-term stewardship and alignment with our shareholders.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Directors remuneration report continued Paying within the competitive range The need to align performance even more strongly with pay, by In setting quantum, we consider remuneration practices in reducing the relative fixed portion and increasing the proportion comparable businesses to ensure remuneration remains within the related to performance.
competitive range, so as to properly mitigate the risks of executive Following discussions with shareholders about these matters at the turnover, without paying more than is necessary.
We also consider end of 2015, we decided not to proceed with any policy changes, the remuneration of executive Directors in the context of other pending a full review of our policy in 2016 in line with the normal executives and employees throughout the Group.
However, we did make some revisions to how we implemented In last years report, I highlighted a number of issues centred on our policy in 2016, when we amended the EPS targets under the SEP retention risk, principally in relation to the following: to better align them with GKNs overriding strategic objective of achieving above market growth relative to its end markets.
Annual bonus payouts being well below the bottom of the market competitive range, including in years when GKN performed strongly, In line with the requirement to put our remuneration policy to which reflects both the maximum opportunity of 110% of salary, a binding shareholder vote at least every three years, in 2016 we well below peer practice, and very stretching performance targets.
focused on reviewing the effectiveness of our remuneration policy with reference to our guiding principles, the issues previously Targets set for the long-term incentive awards of annualised identified and further shareholder feedback.
Taken together, we compound growth in management EPS of 6% at threshold and believe that we can further improve the linkage between pay and 12% at maximum proved overly stretching in the context of performance for 2017 under a slightly revised policy.
slowing global GDP and an increasing tax rate.
Proposals In order to strengthen the alignment between our principles and our remuneration framework, we propose the following changes.
Element of remuneration Proposed change Rationale STVRS and Rebalance the We propose to increase the target STVRS opportunity from 55% to 75% of salary and the maximum STVRS pension proportion of fixed opportunity from 110% to 150% of salary.
This will provide a more significant performance-related element and performancein the executives total remuneration package.
Profit targets will be stretched at maximum so increased levels related pay of outperformance will be required to achieve a maximum payout under the STVRS.
GKNs bonus opportunity is currently below the market competitive range and total remuneration is in the lower quartile compared to industry peers and companies of a similar size.
This proposal seeks to alleviate retention risk by making total remuneration more competitive and aid the attraction of the right talent across our global markets, while maintaining a close link between pay and performance.
As part of this proposal, we also intend to bring the legacy pension benefit allowance for the Chief Executive, Nigel Stein, more into line with the current allowance of 25%.
His pension benefit allowance will be reduced from 40% to 25% of salary, further increasing his proportion of performance-related pay.
Sustainable Amend the structure As stated above, the SEP is cascaded to all levels of senior management.
It is therefore important that the Earnings Plan of the long-term line of sight between reward and performance is clear and visible.
We propose to simplify the plan from incentive plan a three-year core performance period and two-year sustainability performance period to a three-year performance period with a two-year holding period for executive Directors.
We believe that this will simplify the plan while maintaining the award opportunity, and aid transparency while continuing to provide a motivational incentive and a good retention tool for executives.
We also propose to provide flexibility under the policy to introduce additional financial measures and or an appropriate strategic element weighted up to 20% of the maximum opportunity.
Additional measures would be discussed with significant shareholders in advance of their introduction.
Deferred Change the amount Currently, bonus payouts in excess of 65% of salary are deferred into shares.
We propose that, going Bonus Plan of annual bonus forward, 33% of any bonus payment is deferred into shares.
This will ensure the continued building of payouts deferred a shareholding in GKN by executives, which will further align their interests with those of shareholders.
into shares The deferral period of two years remains unchanged.
Long-term Increase flexibility in The attraction and retention of high-calibre candidates is key to the long-term success of the Group.
awards on relation to external GKN operates globally in competitive markets and competes for talent in those markets so the flexibility recruitment recruitment to compete where necessary is important.
We therefore propose to amend the recruitment policy to allow the Committee to award long-term incentives of up to 250% of salary where to do so would facilitate the recruitment of an outstanding external candidate.
This would also enable the candidate to build up a significant shareholding in the Company more quickly.
Shareholding Increase the We propose to increase the shareholding requirement for executive Directors from 200% to 250% of base requirement shareholding salary.
At 1.25x the annual long-term incentive opportunity, we believe this is an appropriate level.
requirement We recognise that there is a significant amount of concern among stakeholders regarding increasing executive pay levels and pay for performance.
We have taken into account shareholder feedback in refining our proposals and are confident that these changes increase the link between pay and performance, increase the alignment between shareholders and executives, provide a fair remuneration Professor Richard Parry-Jones CBE package to executives, and will help to ensure that we attract, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee motivate and retain the right talent for the continued success of GKN.
27 February 2017 82 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION At a glance... 2016 key activities Salary and annual incentive plan Considered and approved STVRS payout for 2015 and set targets for 2016.
Approved salary proposals for executive Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Executive Committee and reviewed fees for the Chairman.
Long-term incentive arrangements Agreed recalibration of performance measures for 2016 SEP awards.
Determined vesting levels for 2013 SEP awards.
Policy and remuneration framework Agreed scope of review of incentive arrangements.
Consulted with shareholders on proposed changes to our remuneration policy.
Compliance and governance Implemented competitive tender process and appointed new independent advisers.
Considered and reviewed practices and changes to corporate governance environment with regard to remuneration arrangements.
2016 executive remuneration Nigel Stein Adam Walker Total remuneration vs opportunity 000 Total remuneration vs opportunity 000 Actual 1,813 Actual 1,096 On target 2,015 On target 1,329 Maximum 3,686 Maximum 2,499 1 2 Annual bonus outturn performance as % of salary Annual bonus outturn performance as % of salary Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Pr Pro ot t 22.93% 45% Pr profit ot 21.33% 45% Margin 2.83% 10% Margin 3.08% 10% Cash 21.25% 30% Cash 19.93% 30% Strategic 19.50% 25% Strategic 19.88% 25% Long-term incentive outturn Long-term incentive outturn value of SEP awards 000 value of SEP awards 000 SEP 2012 89 47 136 SEP 2014 0 SEP 2014 0 Kevin Cummings Phil Swash Total remuneration vs opportunity 000 Total remuneration vs opportunity 000 Actual 1,377 Actual 1,161 On target 1,262 On target 1,207 Maximum 2,298 Maximum 2,243 1 Annual bonus outturn performance as % of salary Annual bonus outturn performance as % of salary Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum 45% 45% profit 33.80% profit 15.98% 10% Margin 1.50% 10% Margin 0.00% 24.00% 30% 19.00% 30% Cash Cash 25% Strategic 18.00% 25% Strategic 20.00% Mediumand long-term incentive outturn Mediumand long-term incentive outturn value of SEP and SIRP awards 000 value of SEP and SIRP awards 000 SEP 2012 17 9 26 SEP 2012 13 6 19 SEP 2014 0 SEP 2014 0 SIRP 2012 186 43 229 SIRP 2012 16438 202 SIRP 2014 0 SIRP 2014 0 1 These gures exclude the 3% reduction in bonus for Nigel Stein and Phil Swash following the Fixed pay Long-term variable SEP Performance element exercise of discretion by the Committee in relation to two fatalities in 2016.
Annual variable STVRS Other remuneration SIRP Share appreciation element 2 Adam Walker was Group Finance Director & Chief Executive, GKN Land Systems throughout 2016.
His STVRS was weighted 75% on Group performance and 25% on GKN Land Systems performance.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy The proposed future remuneration policy as set out below will be put to shareholders for approval by a binding vote at the 2017 AGM on 4 May 2017.
Subject to approval, it will take effect from that date and will be displayed on our website at www.
It is intended that the policy will apply for three years from that date.
Should any changes be required to the policy mid-cycle, these will be subject to a reasoned rationale and consultation with major shareholders before being submitted to shareholders for approval.
Future policy table Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To provide a market competitive salary to recruit and retain individuals None.
with the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to deliver the Maximum opportunity Groups strategic objectives.
Maximum annual increases will be broadly in line with those for other Operation salaried UK employees in the normal course of business.
Higher increases Normally reviewed annually with any increase generally taking effect may be appropriate to reflect a significant change in a Directors role or from 1 July.
Salary increases will normally be in line with the average responsibilities, or if in shareholders interests a Director was intentionally increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
appointed on a below-market salary initially and their subsequent performance in the role warrants an above-average salary increase.
Salaries may be set and or paid in GBP or any other currency, to reflect the circumstances of the individual Director.
Changes Assessment Revised definition of Maximum opportunity.
Key factors taken into account include individual experience, scope of the role, responsibility and performance, Group profitability, prevailing market conditions and pay awards in the Group generally.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To provide benefits consistent with the scope and location of the role.
Operation Maximum opportunity Benefits principally include car and fuel allowance, life assurance, Car and fuel allowances will not increase by more than 15% in any one year.
Maximum life assurance is 4x salary for defined benefit members and Other benefits may be provided at the discretion of the Committee 8x salary for defined contribution members.
based on individual circumstances and business requirements, such Some benefits such as healthcare insurance are provided through third as appropriate relocation and expatriate allowances and support.
parties and therefore the cost to the Company may vary from year to year.
Benefits are provided on a grossed up basis where appropriate.
Relocation and expatriate allowances, where granted, are set at a level Assessment which the Committee considers appropriate based on market practice and individual circumstances.
Benefits are consistent with those provided to senior managers.
They are set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate Changes and are kept under review.
84 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Pension Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To provide appropriate retirement benefits and assist with recruitment None.
Maximum opportunity Operation for external appointments The maximum total contribution into the defined contribution section Since 1 January 2013, benefits have been provided by means of a cash and or a cash allowance in lieu is 25% of base salary.
If Directors allowance and or payment into the defined contribution section of the continue to accrue benefits under the defined benefit section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme the Scheme.
Scheme, they will be eligible for a contribution into the defined contribution section and or a cash allowance in lieu worth 25% Operation for current Directors and internal appointments of the difference between pensionable salary and base salary.
Benefits may be provided through the defined contribution or legacy Changes defined benefit sections of the Scheme, or as a cash allowance.
For Directors subject to legacy arrangements under the defined benefit Maximum retirement benefit for Directors participating in legacy scheme, the pension due under these arrangements is up to two-thirds arrangements reduced from 40% to 25% of the reference salary used pensionable salary calculated on a career average basis for service from for this calculation, and inclusion of benefits for non-UK Directors.
The closure of the Companys UK defined benefit section is currently subject to consultation: should it be closed, Phil Swash will receive pension benefits through a cash allowance and or as a payment into the defined contribution section of the Scheme.
For non-UK appointments, benefits will be provided in accordance with local practice and the maximum opportunity set out in this policy.
Benefits for US nationals will be provided through a retirement benefit allowance or 401 k retirement savings plan.
The specific arrangements for individual Directors are set out in the relevant section of the annual report on remuneration.
Annual bonus STVRS Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To drive and reward achievement of short-term financial and strategic Appropriate targets are set each year which align with the specific measures which support long-term strategic objectives.
business objectives for that year.
Targets are normally applied to a combination of financial and strategic measures relating to Group and, Operation where appropriate, divisional performance.
A significant proportion of the Award levels and performance measures including the proportion relating total award is based on financial measures.
to strategic measures and weightings are reviewed annually to ensure Payments range between 0 to 150% of base salary with 75% of base alignment with the Groups financial and long-term strategic objectives.
salary payable for achievement of on-target performance.
A total of 33% of the bonus payment is deferred into shares under the Maximum opportunity DBP: the balance is paid in cash.
Maximum is 150% of base salary.
Assessment Changes Performance is measured over one financial year.
The level of payment is determined by the Committee after the year end based on Maximum increased from 110% to 150% of base salary.
deferred into shares changed from any payment in excess of 65% of base salary to a mandatory deferral of 33% of any payment earned.
Malus and clawback may be applied as set out in note 2 on page 87.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Directors remuneration report continued Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures A total of 33% of any STVRS payment is deferred into shares to assist No additional performance measures beyond those required for STVRS with retention of key executives and to align their interests with those see previous page.
Release is subject to continued employment.
Operation Maximum opportunity DBP awards are released at the end of a two-year deferral period.
Awards No additional opportunity above the STVRS maximum.
generally lapse in the event of resignation during the deferral period.
Changes On release, a cash amount is paid equivalent to the aggregate dividends per share paid during the deferral period.
Change to amount deferred into shares see changes for STVRS on previous page.
Malus provisions will be applied as set out in note 2 opposite.
Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To encourage and reward sustained earnings performance in line with Measured over a three-year period based on a stretching EPS growth the Groups growth strategy and its objective of creating long-term target.
The Committee retains flexibility to determine at the time of shareholder value.
making an award that additional elements in relation to long-term financial and strategic measures may be introduced subject to To assist with retention of key executives.
a maximum weighting of 20% of the maximum opportunity.
Operation While stretching, targets under the SEP are designed to discourage SEP awards are normally granted annually with vesting based on inappropriate risk taking.
A holding period of two years Maximum opportunity is applied for any vested awards.
Maximum award level is 200% of base salary or 200% of a notional The value of dividends accrued on vested shares from date of grant to UK salary for non-UK executive Directors.
date of release is delivered in additional shares or cash at the discretion of the Committee.
Changes The Committee reviews the award levels annually and keeps performance The three-year core award and two-year sustainability award have been targets under review to ensure continued alignment with strategy.
simplified to a single award with a three-year performance period and additional two-year post-vesting holding period.
Flexibility to introduce Vesting at threshold is 25% rising to a maximum of 100%.
additional performance measures if appropriate.
All vested shares to be retained net of tax until shareholding requirement is met.
Malus and clawback provisions will be applied as set out in note 2 opposite.
Assessment In considering the extent to which an award has vested, the Committee assesses both the extent to which the EPS target has been met and the quality of earnings.
The Committee must be satisfied that the level of vesting is justified by the quality of earnings and EPS performance against shareholder expectations by taking into account Group return on invested capital ROIC against internal projections, new investment performance and cost of capital: shareholder value creation: and whether EPS has grown in absolute terms during the performance period.
Having considered these factors and the underlying financial performance of the Company, the Committee can reduce the level of SEP vesting if it feels it is justified in doing so.
86 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Notes to future policy table 1.
Malus and clawback The Committee may exercise discretion as set out below.
Any discretion Malus and clawback provisions are operated as follows.
will be exercised diligently and in the interests of shareholders.
Clawback provisions allow the Company to recover the value of cash Pension: to provide alternative arrangements on terms no more or vested shares in the event of a material misstatement in GKN plcs favourable if it considers it to be in the interests of the Company.
accounts, gross misconduct or a serious failure to comply with our Code of Conduct.
These provisions apply for a period of two years STVRS: to i alter targets to reflect changed circumstances such as from the date any STVRS payment is made or the date shares are material changes in accounting standards or changes in the Groups released under the SEP. structure: ii reduce payments based on its assessment of underlying performance of the Group, including health and safety performance: Malus provisions allow the Company to reduce a cash payment or and iii make a payment wholly in cash in certain circumstances share award in full or in part in the event of a failure of risk management such as to a departing Director.
or major reputational damage to GKN.
It also includes the clawback provisions set out above.
These provisions apply to awards under SEP: to adjust and or set different performance measures and targets the DBP and SEP. if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, or a change in prevailing market 3.
Legacy arrangements conditions which causes the Committee to determine that the measures The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments or targets are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required to and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line achieve their original purpose.
with the policy set out above where the payment is made pursuant Exceptional circumstances: flexibility to exercise discretion in to terms that were agreed i before the policy came into effect or genuinely unforeseen and exceptional circumstances not referred to ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the in this policy.
If this should happen, the Committee will implement the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not arrangements within the boundaries of the policy taking a reasonable in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
and appropriate position had such discretion been included and it being For these purposes payments include the satisfaction of awards of in the interests of shareholders.
Before doing so, the Committee will variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the consult with major shareholders and explain the exercise of this type terms of the payment were agreed at the time the award was granted.
of discretion in the following years annual report on remuneration.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees Statement of consideration of shareholder views The remuneration framework for executives in senior management The Committee Chairman consults with the Companys major grades is broadly consistent with that for executive Directors.
shareholders on a regular basis to understand their expectations In addition to salaries, they receive benefits, pension, and entitlement with regard to executive remuneration generally and to seek their to shortand long-term incentive awards.
Maximum opportunities views on the application of GKNs remuneration policy.
Further information can be found on Major shareholders were consulted in 2015 and 2016, and the page 102 of the annual report on remuneration.
Committee took into account the views expressed during these consultations in amending long-term incentive targets within the Statement of consideration of employment conditions current policy and in setting the future policy, as described above.
elsewhere in the Company GKN seeks the view of employees on a range of matters: however there is no explicit employee consultation process in relation to the Directors remuneration policy.
The Committee also considers the most recent pay awards in the Group generally, with the aim of maintaining salary increases for executive Directors in line with the average increase awarded to other employees in the Group other than as described in the policy table.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Directors remuneration report continued Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy The charts below illustrate the potential total remuneration that each executive Director could receive in the first year of the proposed policy.
The potential outcomes are based on the three scenarios set out below.
a Fixed pay c omprises base salary and the value of pension and benefits in kind as shown in the single figure table.
For Kevin Cummings this includes his expatriate allowances.
b On target perf ormance is the level of performance required to achieve 50% of the STVRS opportunity 75% of base salary and 25% of the maximum SEP award 50% of base salary.
c Maximum is 150% o f base salary for STVRS and 100% vesting of the maximum SEP award 200% of base salary.
The illustrations for on-target and maximum performance levels do not take account of share price growth or the accrual of dividends over the relevant performance periods under the SEP. Nigel Stein Kevin Cummings 000 000 Fixed pay 100% 1,159 Fixed pay 100% 732 On target 53% 28% 19% 2,178 On target 53% 28% 19% 1,363 Maximum 29% 30% 41% 4,012 Maximum 29% 31% 40% 2,500 Phil Swash Adam Walker 000 000 Fixed pay 100% 677 Fixed pay 100% 729 On target 52% 29% 19% 1,308 On target 50% 30% 20% 1,443 Maximum 28% 31% 41% 2,445 Maximum 27% 31% 42% 2,728 Fixed pay Annual variable STVRS Long-term variable SEP 88 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Recruitment policy Provision Policy Overall approach The policy aims to facilitate the appointment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business and execute the strategy effectively for the benefit of shareholders.
When appointing a new executive Director, the Committee seeks to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and not to pay more than is appropriate.
The Committee will take into consideration a number of relevant factors, including calibre, existing remuneration package, and specific circumstances of the individual including the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
The Committee will typically seek to align the remuneration package with the Companys remuneration policy as set out in the policy table.
However, it retains discretion to include other remuneration components or awards which are outside the specific terms of the policy to facilitate the hiring of candidates of an appropriate calibre, where the Committee believes there is a need to do so in the best interests of the Company.
The Committee will not use this discretion to make a non performancerelated incentive payment such as a golden hello.
In addition, the Committee may consider it necessary to modify the limits of variable remuneration in order to attract an external candidate of the appropriate calibre.
Any awards of variable remuneration will remain linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures.
Fixed Salary, benefits and pension will be set in line with the policy based on the scope of the role and the calibre and experience of remuneration the individual.
Variable In order to ensure that the Committee retains the flexibility to attract a candidate of the appropriate calibre, the maximum remuneration level of variable remuneration that may be granted in respect of external appointments excluding awards referred to below is 250% in relation to long-term incentive awards.
Any share awards will normally be granted under the Companys existing share plans.
If necessary, and subject to the limit referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside these plans as currently permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Buy-out In some circumstances, the Committee may make payments or awards to recognise or buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee will normally aim to do so broadly on a like-for-like basis taking into account a number of relevant factors regarding the forfeited arrangements which may include the form of award, any performance conditions attached to the awards and the time at which they would have vested.
The Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements and would be paid in shares not cash.
These payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above.
Non-executive In accordance with the policy on page 91, new non-executive Directors are paid a base fee in relation to their appointment as Directors a Director.
No sign-on payments are offered to non-executive Directors.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Directors remuneration report continued Executive Directors service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice period from the Company and 6 months from the executive Director.
Non-compete 12 months from date of leaving.
Termination By mutual consent: Nigel Stein is entitled to be paid during his notice period, or in respect of any notice period not served, payments a termination payment up to a maximum of 12 months salary, pension and other benefits.
Other executive Directors appointed since 1 January 2013 are entitled to payments in lieu of notice PILON made on a monthly basis in respect of the notice period or any part not served.
In the event that a Director is discovered to have failed to comply with his duties under the contract, any PILON payment will cease and any payments made will be subject to clawback.
The Committee may make additional termination payments where such payments are made in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Mitigation All Directors have a duty to mitigate their loss: if a Director obtains alternative employment, payments are subject to reduction or cancellation up to the value of the remuneration, benefits and incentives received in respect of the new role.
The Committee retains discretion not to reduce or cancel termination payments if an executive Director obtains alternative employment if it is considered to be in the Companys best interests not to do so or if no duty to mitigate is applicable.
Change of control No pre-determined payments are made.
Benefits Benefits normally cease to be provided on the date employment ends.
However, the Committee has discretion to allow some minor benefits such as health insurance and repatriation allowances to continue to be provided for a period following cessation where this is considered fair and reasonable or appropriate on the basis of local market practice.
Accrued holiday pay will be paid on leaving.
Appropriate out-placement assistance will generally be offered to an executive Director in line with practice applicable to executives in senior management grades.
Annual bonus An executive Director has no entitlement to an annual bonus in respect of the year of termination.
However, the Committee retains discretion to make a bonus payment dependent upon the particular circumstances of the executive Directors departure and performance.
Any such payment would normally be made on a pro rata basis to take account of time served during the financial year and can, at the discretion of the Committee, be paid wholly in cash in cases where deferral into shares would normally be made.
No payments will be made to any individual defined as a bad leaver.
Unvested longAll awards lapse on termination other than for good leavers see definition below in respect of whom the following applies: term incentive Under the SEP, provided termination occurs on or after the first anniversary of the start of the performance period awards and awards the start of the core performance period for awards made in 2016 and earlier, vesting of an award is dependent upon under the DBP the achievement of relevant performance targets and is normally pro-rated to reflect time employed during the measurement period.
DBP awards will be released as soon as practicable following the date of cessation.
In relation to legacy arrangements, ESOS awards have all vested and are capable of release within six months of date of cessation.
SIRP awards will be released on the normal date subject to achievement of the performance target.
Unvested longOutstanding SEP awards vest on a change of control subject to the Committees assessment of the performance of the term incentive Company from the grant date to the effective date of the change of control.
awards and awards Deferred shares under the DBP are released as soon as practicable following a change of control.
under the DBP on change of control In relation to legacy arrangements, all awards under the ESOS have vested and would be released as soon as practicable following a change of control.
The treatment of SIRP awards is identical to that of SEP awards, as set out above.
Discretion Where the Committee retains discretion, it will be used to provide flexibility in certain situations taking into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and performance, with the objective of ensuring that a Director is not paid for poor performance.
Good leavers: death, disability, illness, injury, redundancy, sale of business outside the Group, retirement for SEP awards to be made from 2017 onwards, termination by the Company other than for dishonesty or misconduct and other circumstances at the Committees discretion.
90 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairman and non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Assessment To provide fees within a market-competitive range to recruit and Key factors taken into account when reviewing fees include scope of retain individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make the role, time commitment, prevailing market conditions and pay awards a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
Operation Maximum opportunity Fees are reviewed annually and paid in cash.
Set at a level which reflects the contribution and commitment required of them, taking into account fee levels in other companies of similar size The Chairman is paid a single consolidated fee.
Non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee plus an additional fee for Overall the fees paid to non-executive Directors will remain within the any chairmanship of Board committees and for the role of Senior limit stated in the articles of association, currently 1 million per annum.
Changes The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not receive benefits in kind nor do they participate in the Groups shortand long-term incentive Fees to be reviewed annually to bring them in line with the salary review arrangements or in its pension scheme.
Their expenses for travel to and for Group employees and executive Directors.
from Board meetings and Board events are reimbursed by the Company.
Letters of appointment Chairman and non-executive Directors Provision Policy Notice period Appointments may be terminated by either party giving 12 months notice in the case of the Chairman or three months notice in the case of other non-executive Directors.
Term The Chairman is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to review at the end of this period.
Other non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years renewable for an additional two terms of three years subject to performance and the agreement of both parties.
The appointment may be extended beyond this term if deemed appropriate.
Termination There are no provisions for termination payments for the Chairman or non-executive Directors.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Executive Directors The Committee presents the annual report on remuneration which sets out how the remuneration policy in place during 2016 has been implemented and how the proposed future policy for 2017 will be implemented.
This, together with the Chairmans letter, will be put to shareholders for approval as an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM to be held on 4 May 2017.
Single total figure of remuneration audited The table below shows the single total figures for 2016 and the comparative figures for 2015.
Fixed pay Variable pay STVRS Long-term Other Total Salary Taxable benefits Pension STVRS cash deferred shares incentives remuneration remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Executive Directors Nigel Stein 815 795 18 18 326 333 518 517 18 136 1,813 1,681 Kevin Cummings 505 126 101 328 62 26 229 1,377 Phil Swash 505 15 157 263 19 202 1,161 Adam Walker 571 518 15 15 143 130 367 337 12 273 1,096 1,285 Total 2,396 1,313 174 33 727 463 1,476 854 62 30 181 431 273 5,447 2,966 Explanatory notes Long-term incentives SEP The values represent: Salaries Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash were appointed to the Board on shares vested under the 2012 sustainability award: and 8 January 2016. dividend equivalent shares accrued from date of grant to date Kevin Cummings is a US national on assignment: his salary for 2016 of release 6 August 2012 to 31 December 2016 for shares vested was set in sterling with payment in US dollars.
In accordance with his under the 2012 sustainability award.
contract, payment was made at GKNs budget exchange rate for the These values are based on the GKN share price of 350.2p on first six months of the year and subsequently recalculated at the 21 February 2017 the date on which the Committee determined average market rate for June for the remainder of the year.
The same the outcome of the performance conditions.
principle also applies to pension and taxable benefits to the extent they are paid in US dollars.
The performance period for the 2014 SEP core award ended on 31 December 2016 and both the core and associated sustainability Taxable benefits awards lapsed in full.
Relates to healthcare benefits, car and fuel allowances and Kevin Cummings US benefits and expatriate allowances.
Other remuneration For Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash, this comprises the value of Pension a vested share award granted in 2015 to executives below Board level.
Nigel Stein currently receives a cash retirement benefit allowance of The performance period ended on 31 December 2016 and awards 40% of salary under legacy arrangements.
Kevin Cummings receives are subject to a post-vesting holding period until February 2018. a retirement benefit allowance of 20% of salary less Company The values are calculated on the same basis as the SEP awards above.
contributions in line with US law and practice.
Adam Walker receives a cash retirement allowance of 25% of salary.
Phil Swash is a member For Adam Walker, the prior year figure relates to the release of of the defined benefit section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme.
a restricted award made on joining the Group based on the GKN He accrues a benefit under this section of the Scheme as detailed share price of 373.6p on 24 February 2015, the release date.
on page 93, and receives an allowance worth 25% of the difference There are no further joining awards outstanding.
between pensionable salary and his annual base salary.
The value Further details on each element are set out in the relevant sections of Phil Swashs pension in the table above is calculated in line with of this report.
Annual bonus STVRS STVRS payouts are made in cash up to 65% of salary.
Any amount above 65% of salary is deferred into shares for two years.
The amounts deferred for 2016 as a percentage of salary are: Nigel Stein nil 2015: 2.2% : Kevin Cummings 12.3% 2015: nil : Adam Walker nil 2015: 2.2%.
No amounts were deferred for Phil Swash in 2016 or 2015.
92 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Salary Pension entitlements The annual salary reviews for executive Directors were carried Pension benefits are provided to executive Directors through the GKN out in June 2016.
Our assessment took into account a number of Group Pension Scheme 2012 the Scheme.
Directors may receive factors including individual performance, scope of responsibilities, benefits either under the defined benefit or the defined contribution benchmarking data from our remuneration advisers, and increases sections of the Scheme depending on when they joined the Group.
Defined benefit section We approved salary increases ranging from 2% to 2.5% rounded These are legacy arrangements that apply to Nigel Stein and to the nearest thousand to take effect from 1 July 2016.
increase for employees globally was 3.2%.
Nigel Stein has opted out and receives a cash retirement benefit As stated in last years report, Adam Walker received a 10% increase allowance of 40% of his base salary.
Subject to shareholder approval in October 2015 having assumed operational responsibility for GKN of the 2017 remuneration policy, his pension allowance will be Land Systems in addition to his role as Group Finance Director.
This change will take effect from the Following the sale of the industrial arm of the division, Adam Walker 2017 AGM and will be in line with the policy for new executive retains management responsibility for the remaining two business Director appointments.
streams of Wheels & Structures and Shafts & Services.
He has also Phil Swash continues to accrue benefits under the defined benefit assumed functional responsibility for procurement and supply chain section and receives a pension of up to two-thirds of pensionable matters.
In light of his ongoing and additional responsibilities, we salary on his normal retirement date with a maximum accrual rate of therefore decided that the salary increase awarded on 1 October 2015 1 40th.
These benefits have been calculated on a career average basis should stand.
He also receives a cash allowance of 25% on Date of last salary change the difference between his pensionable salary and base salary in line 1 with the policy for Directors appointed after 1 January 2013.
1 July 2016 8 Jan 2016 1 Oct 2015 1 July 2015 Increase % Defined contribution section Executive Adam Walker receives retirement benefits under the defined Directors contribution section by way of a cash allowance equivalent to 25% Nigel Stein 825,000 805,000 2.5% of base salary which may be delivered in cash or as a payment into Kevin Cummings 510,000 500,000 2.0% the Scheme.
He has opted out and receives the full allowance as cash.
Phil Swash 510,000 500,000 2.0% Benefits for US nationals Adam Walker 578,000 564,300 513,000 2.4% Kevin Cummings does not participate in the Scheme and instead receives a retirement benefit allowance of 20% of base salary less 1 Salary on appointment to the Board.
any Company contributions made into a 401 k retirement plan up The next annual salary review will take place in July 2017.
Any to the maximum permitted by US law.
These arrangements are increases will be in line with the new policy and reported in next consistent with US practice.
He is not eligible to participate or years annual report on remuneration.
contribute in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan during his period of assignment.
Taxable benefits Additional information No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by All UK executive Directors received healthcare benefits and car and a Director in the event that the value of their pension exceeds fuel allowances.
The values of these benefits are shown in the single the statutory lifetime allowance.
Details of the pension benefit provisions under the defined benefit Kevin Cummings received US benefits and expatriate allowances as and defined contribution sections of the Scheme are shown on part of his assignment to the UK.
These are set out in the table below.
Expatriate Pension entitlements for 2017 will be implemented in line with Tax allowance Medical 1 2 3 4 equalisation net Tax return Car insurance Total the new policy.
000 000 000 000 000 000 26 135 4 5 8 126 1 Company operates hypothetical US tax and social security withholding so that he is placed in a tax neutral position to prevent double taxation in the UK and US.
The amount represents the best estimate of the cost of the tax equalisation benefit that is expected to be refunded to the Company, based on the information available to date.
2 Assignment expenses including housing and home leave costs.
3 Assistance with completion of tax return.
4 Amount represents provision of a car net of payroll contributions.
Benefits for 2017 will be unchanged and implemented in line with the new policy.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus: Short Term Variable Remuneration Scheme STVRS The operation of the 2016 STVRS award and proposed changes from 2017 which remain subject to shareholder approval at the AGM are set out below.
Operation for 2016 award Proposed changes from 2017 Performance period One year.
Opportunity Up to 110% of salary.
Measures A combination of financial measures and strategic measures, No change.
the weighting of which is reviewed annually.
Financial measures are assessed against profit, margin and cash Measures will be simplified to remove margin targets in relation to the Group and divisions as appropriate.
included implicitly through profit and increase focus on profit and cash.
Strategic measures vary from year to year and by division in Goals will be disclosed in next years annual report accordance with Group priorities.
In 2016, they included goals on remuneration.
relating to the integration of Fokker, new business wins in eDrive, and increasing productivity and overall equipment effectiveness.
Qualitative Financial measures are subject to assessment by the Committee.
assessment The achievement of strategic measures is assessed by the of performance Corporate Audit function which provides a report to the Committee.
Other restrictions Subject to malus and clawback.
Release Bonus payouts above 65% of salary will be deferred into shares 33% of bonus payments will be deferred into shares and and will be subject to a two-year holding period under the will be subject to a two-year holding period under the DBP.
The measures and weighting for 2016 and the proposed measures and weightings for 2017 are set out in the table below.
The outcome of these measures will be disclosed in the next annual report on remuneration.
2016 2017 % of salary % of salary Target Maximum Target Maximum Profit 22.5 45 37.5 75 Cash 15 30 18.75 37.5 Margin 5 10 Strategic objectives 12.5 25 18.75 37.5 Total 55 110 75 150 2016 STVRS performance audited The financial and strategic measures for the 2016 STVRS were linked to our overall strategic objectives and financial goals as set out below.
See pages 14 and 15 for further information on our strategic framework.
Performance measure Link to strategic objectives and financial goals Financial measures Profit Delivering strong financial returns Margin Delivering strong financial returns Cash Delivering strong financial returns Strategic measures Leading in our chosen markets Leveraging a strong global presence Successful integration of Fokker Differentiating ourselves through technology Sustaining above market growth Deliver new business wins in eDrive Differentiating ourselves through technology Strengthen organic growth at margin Leading in our chosen markets Increase future growth above market Sustaining above market growth 94 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The performance against the financial measures is set out below and shows the extent to which performance was met at threshold, target and maximum levels: Target performance Actual performance as % of salary Maximum opportunity Director Measure Threshold Target Maximum Actual Threshold Target Maximum % of salary 1 22.93% Nigel Stein Group profit 595m 626m 647m 626m 45 Group margin 8.2% 8.5% 8.7% 8.4% 2.83% 10 Group cash See below 21.25% 30 Group strategic measures See below 19.50% 25 Total achieved: 66.51% 110 7.64% Kevin Cummings Group profit 595m 626m 647m 626m 15 26.16% Divisional profit 281m 302m 314m 311m 30 1.50% Divisional margin 9.9% 10.2% 10.4% 10.0% 10 24.00% Divisional cash See below 30 18.00% Divisional strategic measures See below 25 Total achieved: 77.30% 110 1 7.64% Phil Swash Group profit 595m 626m 647m 626m 15 8.34% Divisional profit 289m 317m 330m 305m 30 0.00% Divisional margin 8.1% 8.5% 8.6% 8.0% 10 19.00% Divisional cash See below 30 20.00% Divisional strategic measures See below 25 Total achieved: 54.98% 110 2 19.11% Adam Walker Group profit 595m 626m 647m 626m 33.75 2.22% Divisional profit 27m 33m 38m 31m 11.25 2.12% Group margin 8.2% 8.5% 8.7% 8.4% 7.5 Divisional margin 4.4% 4.9% 5.3% 4.8% 0.96% 2.5 Group cash See below 15.93% 22.5 Divisional cash See below 4.00% 7.5 14.63% Group strategic measures See below 18.75 5.25% Divisional strategic measures See below 6.25 Total achieved: 64.22% 110 1 These figures exclude the 3% reduction in bonus for Nigel Stein and Phil Swash following the exercise of discretion by the Committee in relation to two fatalities in 2016.
2 Adam Walkers 2016 STVRS award was weighted 75% for Group targets and 25% for GKN Land Systems targets to reflect his role as Group Finance Director & Chief Executive, GKN Land Systems.
The management profit and margin figures above are calculated using the 2016 budget exchange rates to eliminate the impact of translational currency fluctuations.
As stated in the Committee Chairmans letter, payouts for Nigel Stein and Phil Swash were reduced in light of two fatalities at our Powder Metallurgy site in Romania and our Driveline site in Roxboro, US.
Annual profit and margin targets for the Group and each division are set in line with the budget approved by the Board in light of shareholder expectations, the Groups strategy and market conditions.
Cash targets for the Group and the divisions included operating cash flow targets measured monthly over ten months, cash conversion targets measured at two points in the year and rolling three-month stock turn targets measured monthly over ten months.
These targets were based on the Groups budget.
The rationale for measuring cash on a monthly basis is to encourage smooth flow of cash throughout the year so as to incentivise sustainable cash flow.
Given the complex structure and number of cash targets, we believe the disclosure of such targets would not be practical or meaningful to shareholders.
Performance directed on strategic measures included the following: Strategic measures Outcome Successful integration of Fokker Successfully integrating into GKN Aerospace, demonstrated by strong financial performance, retention of key executives and no significant customer disruption.
Deliver new business wins in eDrive Significantly increased business wins in this area compared to prior years including key development orders won with original equipment manufacturers.
Strengthen organic growth at margin Orders won in GKN Driveline were in line with target with both CVJ and AWD win levels above 2015.
A supporting programme management system was effectively deployed.
Position for future growth above market A substantial amount of new business was won in both GKN Aerospace and GKN Automotive which supports the growth set out in their strategic plans.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Directors remuneration report continued Deferred Bonus Plan DBP The operation of the 2016 DBP and implementation for 2017 are set out below.
Operation in 2016 Proposed changes from 2017 Amount deferred Bonus payouts above 65% of salary.
There will be no change for 2017 as any 2017 DBP awards will be made prior to the AGM.
The proposed policy, which remains subject to shareholder Other restrictions Subject to continued employment and malus provisions.
approval at the AGM, provides for the deferral of 33% of any Retention period Two years.
Therefore any DBP awards under the new policy, if approved, will take effect in 2018 in relation to the 2017 STVRS.
The table below sets out the DBP awards granted during the year in relation to the amounts deferred under the 2015 STVRS: % of salary deferred Face value of No of shares 1 2 Director into shares award awarded Date of release Nigel Stein 2.2 17,728 6,515 2018 Adam Walker 2.2 11,559 4,248 2018 1 Value excludes amount of dividend equivalents paid in cash from date of grant to date of release.
2 Granted with no exercise price.
Further details are shown on page 99.
As reported on page 92, Kevin Cummings 2016 STVRS payout exceeded 65% of salary: the amount above 65% will be deferred into shares under the DBP in 2017.
Long-term incentives: Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP As reported last year, in order to strengthen the alignment between remuneration and GKNs overriding strategic aim to sustain above market growth, we recalibrated the SEPs targets to reference EPS growth relative to our end markets.
The operation of the 2016 SEP and proposed changes to be implemented in line with the simplified structure set out in the new policy which remain subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM are summarised below.
Operation for 2016 Proposed changes from 2017 Performance period Core award: three-year performance period.
Single award with three-year performance period.
Sustainability award: two years following the end of the core award performance period, with performance assessed separately in each year.
Opportunity 198% of salary 165% relating to the core award and Normal annual maximum opportunity remains at 200% 33% relating to the sustainability award.
However, an exceptional award of 250% of salary may be made to facilitate the external recruitment of a new executive Director.
Quantitative measure EPS growth relative to automotive and aerospace No change to EPS as a primary measure.
flexibility to implement additional financial or strategic measures if appropriate.
Qualitative assessment We assess the level of vesting to ensure that it is No change.
of performance justified by the quality of earnings over the performance period.
In doing so, we take account of: EPS performance against shareholder expectations: Group ROIC against internal projections, new investment performance and cost of capital: shareholder value creation: and whether EPS has grown in absolute terms.
Additional information Sustainability award: in order to vest, the highest Sustainability award to be removed.
level of management EPS in any year of the core performance period must be achieved or exceeded.
Vesting of the sustainability award is reduced to reflect the extent to which the core target is not satisfied.
Release 50% of the vested core award is released at the end Vested shares will be subject to a two-year holding period of the three-year core performance period with the prior to release.
balance released two years later at the end of the sustainability award performance period.
Any vested sustainability shares are also released at this time.
96 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The change to the SEP rules in relation to the introduction of an The table below shows the maximum number of shares available exceptional award of 250% of salary will require shareholder and those that vested and lapsed under the relevant SEP and SIRP approval at the 2017 AGM and is summarised in the AGM circular.
In relation to shares vested, page 83 shows the value that relates to performance and share price appreciation.
The detailed performance measures for the 2016 awards are set out below.
2012 SEP 2014 SEP 2015 1 sustainability award core award SIRP 2016 SEP core target Maximum Vested Maximum Vested Maximum Vested shares shares shares shares award shares 1 2 Growth in EPS target Vesting level Nigel Stein 69,991 34,995 279,585 5% growth above end markets 100% Kevin Cummings 13,523 6,761 68,595 65,391 65,391 1% growth above end markets 25% Phil Swash 9,874 4,937 57,693 57,563 57,563 Less than 1% growth above end markets 0% Adam Walker 177,485 2016 SEP sustainability target 1 Excludes shares under the 2014 sustainability award which lapsed in full Nigel Stein 55,917 Year 4 Year 5 Vesting level shares: Kevin Cummings 13,719 shares: Phil Swash 11,538 shares: and Adam Walker 35,497 shares.
100% X 50% Awards granted in 2016 audited X 50% X X 0% Face value No.
of % End of % of of award shares vesting at performance 1 Compound annual EPS growth based on management EPS calculated using book tax rate as 1 2 Director and award type salary awarded threshold period reported in note 7 to the financial statements.
2 Vesting between 1% and 5% growth above end markets is on a straight line basis.
Nigel Stein Core award 165 1,328,250 488,201 25 31.12.18 The core target vesting schedule above will also apply to the 2017 Sustainability award 33 265,650 97,640 50 31.12.20 SEP awards.
Performance will be measured against a base year EPS 585,841 for 2016 using book tax rate of 30.4p adjusted to take account of Kevin Cummings the disposal of the Stromag business in December 2016.
Core award 165 825,000 303,230 25 31.12.18 Sustainability award 33 165,000 60,646 50 31.12.20 Vesting of awards in 2016 audited 363,876 The performance periods for the 2012 SEP sustainability award and Phil Swash 2014 core award ended on 31 December 2016.
The outcome of these awards is set out below.
Core award 165 825,000 303,230 25 31.12.18 Sustainability award 33 165,000 60,646 50 31.12.20 The 2012 sustainability award vested at 50% and relates to achievement of the sustainability target in year five only.
In order 363,876 for this award to vest, we were required to assess the quality of Adam Walker earnings to ensure that the level of vesting was justified.
This is Core award 165 931,100 342,226 25 31.12.18 an important assessment as it looks at the creation of both financial Sustainability award 33 186,220 68,445 50 31.12.20 and shareholder value taking into account the factors listed against 410,671 Qualitative assessment of performance in the table on the opposite page.
Our assessment concluded that we were satisfied with the 1 Core and sustainability awards were granted as performance share awards with no exercise price.
The long-term incentive amounts shown in the 2 Value is based on the maximum number of shares vesting assuming the relevant performance single figure table on page 92 relate to: conditions are satisfied in full.
The number of core award shares was calculated using the GKN share price of 272.07p, being the average share price for the three dealing days immediately the value of the vested shares under the 2012 sustainability award: before the date of grant 1 March 2016.
The number of sustainability award shares is based on 20% of the core award shares.
The value excludes dividend equivalent amounts paid in and additional shares or cash accrued from the date of grant to date of release and released at the same time as shares vested under the core and sustainability awards.
the dividend equivalent shares accrued from date of grant to the release date for shares vested under the 2012 sustainability award.
Other remuneration These shares will be released on 28 February 2017.
The GKN Share Incentive and Retention Plan SIRP was introduced As stated in the Committee Chairmans letter, the 2014 core and in 2015 for participants below Board level.
Kevin Cummings and sustainability awards lapsed in full on 21 February 2016.
Phil Swash received SIRP awards prior to their appointment to the Board.
They will receive no further awards under the SIRP.
2012 SEP sustainability award Performance met Maximum Actual The performance period for the 2015 SIRP award ended on Performance measure sustained EPS growth 31 December 2016.
Awards are subject to a post-vesting holding Year 4 X 50% 0% period until February 2018.
Further details of these awards are Year 5 50% 50% shown on page 99.
1 Target for vesting 2014 SEP core award Threshold Maximum Actual 2 Performance measure EPS growth 6% 12% 1.9% Vesting level 25% 100% 0% 1 Core awards vest on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum levels.
2 Compound annual growth in management EPS normalised for tax, and excluding exceptional items, post-employment finance charges and volatile IFRS charges or credits.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Directors remuneration report continued Vesting of awards in 2016 audited For 2016, the shareholding requirement was 200% of salary.
The performance targets and vesting levels for the 2015 SIRP awards Nigel Stein continues to meet the requirement comfortably.
The are set out in the table below.
The vesting of these awards required remaining Directors, Adam Walker appointed on 1 January 2014 the Committee to be satisfied that the Companys management profit and Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash both appointed on 8 January before tax PBT for the performance period was consistent with the 2016 are expected to achieve 100% of base salary within five years underlying financial performance of the Company.
The table below sets out the progress they are making towards meeting the current shareholding requirement.
Target for vesting 1 Performance measure PBT Threshold Maximum Actual We recognise that the performance of the SEP plays an important 2 Year 1 10% 50% 50% factor in Directors achieving their shareholding requirement.
The 3 Year 2 10% 50% 50% recent performance of the SEP has resulted in no payout in either 2016 or 2017 and therefore it may take some Directors longer 1 50% of the award is measured on 2015 PBT and 50% on 2016 PBT.
This will also be the case for the 2 Shares vest on a straight line basis for achievement of PBT growth from 601 million to 620 million.
other executives described below who are also subject to 3 Shares vest on a straight line basis for achievement of PBT growth from 625 million to a shareholding requirement.
We apply a similar shareholding requirement to Executive Committee Historic plans members and the top 100 executives in the Group as we believe their The GKN Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS is the only interests should be closely aligned with shareholders in the same remaining historic long-term incentive plan with outstanding awards.
way as those of executive Directors and non-executive Directors.
No awards have been granted under the ESOS since the introduction Executive Committee members are expected to achieve a minimum of the SEP in 2012.
Details of vested and outstanding ESOS awards shareholding of 100% of base salary having to retain all vested are shown on page 99. long-term incentive awards net of tax until the requirement is met in full.
The top 100 executives below that level are required to achieve a minimum shareholding of either 20% or 30% of base salary, Executive Directors share interests audited depending on their grade having to retain 50% of vested long-term We operate a shareholding requirement as we believe that the incentive awards net of tax until the requirement is met in full.
interests of Directors should be closely aligned with those of The shareholding requirement for all executives is tested annually on shareholders.
Executive Directors can achieve a considerable part 31 December using the average share price for the final three months of this alignment through the retention of shares released under of the year based only on shares held outright by the executives or the DBP and long-term incentive plans.
Shares deferred under the DBP and those The review of our remuneration framework took into account our vested and deferred under the SEP are not taken into account until shareholding requirement.
In order to strengthen further the they are released.
alignment of interests between executive Directors and shareholders, The table below shows the number of shares held by executive we approved an increase in the shareholding requirement from Directors and their connected persons at 31 December 2016.
It also 200% of salary to 250% of salary.
Directors are expected to retain all shows their interests in share awards and options at the same date.
vested long-term incentive awards net of tax until the requirement is met in full.
Shares Interests in share awards and options Without performance Shares held Shareholding requirement conditions With performance conditions 2 3 4 5 % of salary DBP SEP SIRP ESOS 1 Required Achieved Unvested Vested Unvested Unvested Exercised Executive Directors Nigel Stein 2,004,024 200% 773% 6,515 174,978 1,372,689 635,041 6 7 Kevin Cummings 180,474 200% 113% 33,809 565,503 65,391 116,346 7 Phil Swash 100,607 200% 63% 24,686 536,109 57,563 61,453 7 Adam Walker 115,899 200% 64% 4,248 865,582 1 Based on average share price of 318.15p per share for the period 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016 and salary as at 31 December 2016.
2 DBP awards granted as conditional awards.
Vesting is subject to continued employment only.
3 SEP awards granted as conditional awards.
Vesting is subject to the achievement of an EPS performance condition.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
The vested award represents 50% of the 2012 SEP core award that will be released on 28 February 2017.
4 SIRP awards granted as conditional awards before appointed to the Board.
Vesting is subject to the achievement of a performance condition based on management profit before tax.
Vested SIRP awards have a holding period until February 2018.
5 ESOS awards are market value options.
Vested ESOS awards are those not exercised at 31 December 2016.
6 Includes 10,000 GKN American Depository Receipts.
7 Currently required to achieve a shareholding of 100% of salary within five years of appointment and 200% of salary as soon as possible after that.
8 All Directors are potential beneficiaries under the employee share ownership plan trust Trust and have a deemed interest in shares held in the Trust see page 106.
Further details on the interests in share awards and options shown above can be found in the table and additional notes on page 99.
There were no changes in the interests of Directors in the period 31 December 2016 to 27 February 2017.
98 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Directors interests in share awards and options Shares released Dividend Shares Shares options shares Shares No.
1 For SEP awards, figure includes both the core and sustainability awards.
2 Actual and expected release dates: ESOS dates exercisable up to: 11 August 2009 2009 award : 6 May 2020 2010 award : and 31 March 2021 2011 award.
DBP actual expected release dates: 24 February 2016 2014 award and February 2018 2016 award.
SIRP expected release date: February 2018 after end of holding period for 2015 award.
Release dates are based on 50% of any vested core award being released after three years and the remaining 50% and any vested sustainability award being released after five years, in both cases after the announcement of the prior year annual results.
3 The share price used to calculate the number of shares granted under awards and options is: for SEP, DBP and SIRP it is the average price for the three dealing days immediately before the grant dates: and for ESOS options, it is the average price for the five dealing days immediately before the grant dates.
This is also the price at which options can be exercised.
4 Represents 50% of the vested core award Nigel Stein 174,978 shares: Kevin Cummings 33,809 shares: and Phil Swash 24,686 shares.
The balance of the shares relate to the sustainability award, the performance condition for which was met at 50% see page 97.
The vested core award and sustainability award shares together with dividend equivalent shares will be released on 28 February 2017 see page 106 for further details of shares released.
The unvested sustainability award shares lapsed on 21 February 2017.
5 Performance condition was not met so the 2014 SEP core and sustainability awards lapsed in full on 21 February 2017.
The aggregate gain made by Directors on the release of the above awards during the year was 133,000.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Directors remuneration report continued Pension audited The table below sets out details of the pension benefit provisions under the defined benefit and defined contribution sections of the Scheme for executive Directors who served during the year.
Total pension Increase in Pension value in value in year as Transfer value of accrued pension Pension value in year from cash reported in single Pivotal Accrued pension accrued pension during year year from defined allowance defined total figure 2 3 4 retirement at 31.12.16 at 31.12.2016 net of inflation benefit scheme A contribution B table A B 1 date 000 000 000 000 000 000 Nigel Stein 31.12.15 86 2,279 326 326 5 Phil Swash 07.10.23 21 532 3 59 98 157 Adam Walker 143 143 1 Earliest date that a non-reduced pension is payable to Directors.
No additional benefits are provided for early retirement.
2 Accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming a Director as well as for qualifying services after becoming a Director.
3 Transfer value represents the present value of accrued benefits.
It does not represent an amount of money which the individual is entitled to receive.
The change in transfer value over the year reflects the additional pension earned and the effect of changes in financial market conditions during the year.
The method and assumptions used to calculate transfer values from the Scheme were last reviewed in March 2015 and remain applicable.
4 Notional value of defined benefit and cash allowances included in single total figure table on page 92.
5 Appointed to the Board on 8 January 2016 and member of the defined benefit section since 2007.
100 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Non-executive Directors Single total figure of remuneration audited Senior Independent Director Basic fees Committee Chairman fee Total 000 000 000 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Chairman Mike Turner 335 335 335 335 Non-executive Directors Angus Cockburn 60 60 60 60 Tufan Erginbilgic 60 60 60 60 1 1 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 60 60 15 15 75 75 2 2 Richard Parry-Jones 60 60 25 25 85 85 3 Anne Stevens 30 30 Total 605 575 40 40 645 615 1 Fee for Audit & Risk Committee Chairman.
2 Fees for Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 and Senior Independent Director 10,000.
3 Fees received from 1 July 2016, date of appointment.
Anne Stevens is a US national and her fee is converted into US dollars using the exchange rate quoted on Bloomberg for the last practicable date before the quarterly payment date.
Fees Non-executive Directors shareholdings The Committee and the Board carried out their periodic review of Non-executive Directors are required to achieve a minimum fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors respectively in shareholding of 30% of base fees within three years of appointment.
The last review took place in 2014.
Factors taken The minimum requirement level was reviewed in November 2016 into account as part of their review included time commitment, and continues to remain appropriate.
The shareholding requirement market data and salary increases awarded to employees in the is tested annually on 31 December using the average share price for UK and globally over the past two years.
Having considered these the final three months of the year based only on shares held outright factors, fee increases of 4.5% for the Chairman and 5% for nonby the Directors or their connected persons.
executive Directors were approved by the Committee and the Board Anne Stevens was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016 and has respectively with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Board also three years from that date in which to reach her shareholding reviewed the additional fees for the Chairmen of the Remuneration requirement.
The Chairman and remaining non-executive Directors, and Audit & Risk Committees and the Senior Independent Director, all of whom have been in post for longer than three years, meet the and agreed that no changes were necessary.
The table below sets out the fees with effect from 1 January 2017.
The table below shows the number of shares held by the Chairman and non-executive Directors and their connected persons at 1 Jan 2017 1 Jan 2016 Increase % 31 December 2016.
Chairman 350,000 335,000 4.5% Shareholding requirement Non-executive Directors 63,000 60,000 5.0% % of fees % of fees 1 Shares held required achieved Audit & Risk Committee Chairman 15,000 15,000 Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 15,000 Mike Turner 260,000 30 247% Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 Non-executive Directors Angus Cockburn 10,000 30 53% From 2017, fees for non-executive Directors will be reviewed but not necessarily increased annually in line with employee salary reviews.
Tufan Erginbilgic 30,000 30 159% Shonaid Jemmett-Page 12,900 30 68% Richard Parry-Jones 10,000 30 53% 2 Anne Stevens 30 1 Based on average share price of 318.15p per share for the period 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016 and fees as at 31 December 2016.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration in context Our remuneration framework is cascaded to the management Percentage change in the remuneration of the population globally.
Salary reviews for management are undertaken Chief Executive annually with reference to their position in range and local rates The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits of inflation to ensure that they are paid fairly.
STVRS awards and and bonus for the Chief Executive compared to a senior management benefits such as car allowances are granted to some 700 employees population of approximately 485 employees worldwide.
We consider worldwide and SEP awards are granted to around 300 executives this group to be appropriate as it includes employees with international to encourage share ownership and align their interests with those responsibilities who have similar remuneration arrangements to the of shareholders.
Shareholding requirements currently apply to the Chief Executive: however some benefits to employees globally are top 100 executives.
driven by local practice and can vary according to the jurisdiction.
Below Board level, the Share Incentive and Retention Plan SIRP Chief Senior was introduced in 2015 to drive particular medium-term financial Executive management % % objectives and aid retention.
Any performance shares that crystallise 1 2 at the end of the performance period are subject to a holding period Salary 2.5 4 prior to vesting and release.
The SIRP also enables the Company Benefits 0 0.4 to make restricted share awards in order to aid the retention of Annual bonus 3.1 19.3 employees who hold key strategic positions or are deemed key 1 The average increase for all employees globally 3.2% was taken into account when talent critical to the business.
considering the salary increase for the Chief Executive.
2 Salary increases reflect additional responsibilities, promotions and increases awarded in Salary reviews for executive and non-executive Directors take into certain high-inflation countries.
account average increases awarded to the senior management population, the wider management population and all employees in the Group.
Given that the Group operates in more than 30 countries, all of which are subject to different practices and rates of inflation, and differing levels of market competitiveness, cost of living and skills, the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing the remuneration framework.
Historical performance graph The graph below provides a comparison of GKNs total shareholder return with that of the FTSE 350 Index, based on an initial investment of 100 over the eight-year period to 31 December 2016.
The FTSE 350 Index was chosen for this chart as it is a broadly based index which contains more manufacturing and engineering companies than the FTSE 100 Index.
700 GKN FTSE 350 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 102 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Value STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Pay for performance The table below shows the total remuneration of the Chief Executive over the past eight years as well as the level of STVRS payout and long-term incentive vesting achieved as a percentage of maximum.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below compares the total remuneration for all employees with dividends paid to shareholders for 2016 and 2015.
2016 2015 Change m m % 1 2 Total employee remuneration 1,849 1,513 22.2 3 Dividends 150 142 5.6 1 Includes salary, bonus and benefits see note 9 to the financial statements.
2 This relates principally to currency fluctuations and the inclusion of Fokker employees for the full year.
Normal wage and inflation growth amounted to 2%.
3 Includes the total dividends paid in each financial year see note 8 to the financial statements.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Directors remuneration report continued Governance Membership of the Remuneration Committee All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Chairman Richard Parry-Jones Members Angus Cockburn Tufan Erginbilgic Shonaid Jemmett-Page Anne Stevens Secretary Kerry Watson Company Secretary External advisers Kepler appointed 22 April 2016 Internal advisers Mike Turner Group Chairman, Nigel Stein Chief Executive and Monique Carter Group HR Director were consulted and invited to attend meetings as necessary.
In addition, the Global Reward, Group Finance and Company Secretariat functions supported the Committee as appropriate.
Care was taken to ensure there were no conflicts of interest when consulting with senior management.
Meetings held The Committee met ten times during the year see page 66 for attendance at Committee meetings.
Additional meetings held during the year related to the appointment of new independent advisers and reviewing our remuneration policy and framework.
Role The Board has delegated responsibility to the Committee for: approving the Groups policy on executive Directors remuneration and, within the terms of that policy, setting the remuneration and other terms of service of the executive Directors and the Company Secretary: approving the fees of the Chairman: and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration of senior executives below Board level.
The Committees terms of reference are available on our website at www.
Advisers to the Committee As reported in last years annual report on remuneration, we carried out a competitive tender process for the appointment of new independent advisers to the Committee.
This was due to Deloitte LLP stepping down as independent advisers following their appointment as external auditors to the Company with effect from the 2016 financial year.
The diagram below sets out the tender process we followed: GKN submits invitations GKN holds GKN panel independently Formal presentations by to tender pre-submission calls reviewed and three shortlisted firms scored each tender Six firms were pre-selected Calls provided better GKN panel GKN panel understanding of our Company Secretary Committee Chairman business, reward priorities Group HR Director Company Secretary and challenges Head of Reward Head of Reward Following this rigorous and competitive tender process, Kepler were appointed as independent advisers to the Committee with effect from April 2016.
Their performance and role will be reviewed on a regular basis.
During the year, we received advice from the following advisers.
Kepler on all aspects of remuneration arrangements for executive Directors and senior executives below Board level as well as market updates and practices.
The fees for this, on a cost-incurred basis, were 107,200.
The wider Mercer Group which includes Kepler and Marsh & McLennan provided other services to the Group.
Mercer provided services in relation to actuarial services, pension advisory and salary benchmarking data, and Marsh & McLennan in relation to insurance broking and risk assessment and risk management consultancy.
Taking into account the rigorous tender process and length of tenure, the Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives from Kepler is objective and independent.
Kepler is a member of the UKs Remuneration Consultants Group and contributes to and abides by the Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consulting.
This includes Keplers absolute commitment to integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, quality and client service.
Deloitte in relation to the 2015 remuneration report and aspects of our initial remuneration framework review undertaken while they were in post.
The fees for this, on a cost-incurred basis, were 12,300.
Deloitte also provided other services to the Group in relation to tax support to GKN employees on international assignments.
104 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Committee performance evaluation Payments for loss of office audited The annual evaluation of the Committee was carried out by No payments for loss of office were made to any past Director during Independent Board Evaluation which looked at the effectiveness of the year.
both the Committee and the Chairman of the Committee.
Feedback from the evaluation concluded that the Committee is regarded as Payments to past Directors audited effective in covering its remit and is seen by Board members as independent-minded and rigorous in its decision-making.
Marcus Bryson Notwithstanding the sensitive and independent nature of the Marcus Bryson stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2014 Committees activities, it was agreed that there were opportunities and retired from the Company on 1 January 2015. to engage further with executives so that they understood fully the The 2014 SEP core award did not vest as EPS performance was Committees aims.
Therefore, the award lapsed in full on 21 February 2017.
The sustainability award associated with the core award lapsed External appointments on his date of leaving.
There are no further awards outstanding.
The Board recognises that executive Directors may be invited to William Seeger become non-executive Directors of other companies and that the William Seeger stepped down from the Board on 25 February 2014 knowledge and experience from such appointments can benefit both and subsequently retired from the Group on 31 August 2014. the Director and the Company.
Executive Directors may accept one In the 2013 annual report on remuneration we disclosed estimated non-executive directorship with another company excluding that of values of certain expatriate benefits that William Seeger was entitled chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Any such appointment requires to receive.
Details of the actual payments made to him during the Board approval and must not lead to any conflicts of interest.
year are set out below: Nigel Stein is a non-executive director of Inchcape plc and received US healthcare benefits of 2,922 2015: 14,155.
Adam Walker is a non-executive director of Kier at 15,000 for 18 months following his retirement from the Group plc and also chairman of its risk management and audit Company.
committee for which he received total fees of 60,000.
The Directors retained the fees they received for these appointments.
Value estimated at 25,000 until the vesting of all outstanding awards.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Tax and social security equalisation continued to be applied to Executive Directors are appointed under service contracts and payments made during the year so he was not disadvantaged non-executive Directors by letters of appointment.
Further details by his global tax position.
This treatment resulted in GKN making of these are set out in the tables below.
All Directors will offer a payment of 80,273 2015: 45,172 to the UK and US tax themselves for election or re-election at the 2017 AGM.
authorities with William Seeger subsequently refunding an Executive Directors service contracts overpayment of taxes to the Company of 187,675.
For 2015, the Date of Notice from Notice from Company held an estimated credit balance of 80,175 due to the contract Company Director timing of hypothetical taxes being withheld on the release of the Nigel Stein 22.08.01 12 months 6 months 2012 SEP core award and the amount actually being paid over to 1 Kevin Cummings 08.01.16 12 months 6 months the local authorities.
Tax equalisation will continue to be applied 1 to any relevant payments made up to 2018 when the balancing Phil Swash 08.01.16 12 months 6 months credits and payments will be reconciled.
Adam Walker 09.10.13 12 months 6 months On 28 February 2017, the remaining 50% of shares vested under his 1 Appointed to the Board on 8 January 2016.
2012 core award 90,797 shares and 10,192 dividend equivalent Non-executive Directors letters of appointment shares will be released to him.
The 2012 sustainability award vested at 50%.
The vested sustainability shares 10,893 shares and 1,220 Date of original letter Expiry of Years service dividend equivalent shares will also be released on the same day.
of appointment current term at 31.12.16 In both cases, the shares have been pro-rated to reflect time served 1 Mike Turner 31.07.09 03.05.18 7 years during the respective core and sustainability performance periods.
Angus Cockburn 19.11.12 01.01.19 4 years There are no further awards outstanding.
Tufan Erginbilgic 04.04.11 08.05.17 5 years No awards were released to Marcus Bryson and William Seeger Shonaid Jemmett-Page 28.04.10 31.05.19 6 years during the year.
Richard Parry-Jones 26.02.08 28.02.20 8 years 2 Anne Stevens 24.06.16 30.06.19 6 months 1 Relates to date appointed as non-executive Director.
His subsequent letter of appointment as Chairman was dated 24 November 2011.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Directors remuneration report continued Dilution limits The rules of the discretionary share plans SEP and ESOS set certain limits on the amount of newly issued shares or treasury shares that can be used.
We monitor these limits carefully to ensure that in any rolling ten-year period, no more than 5% of the issued share capital is used for executive plans and no more than 10% of the issued share capital is used for all-employee plans.
Against these limits, the percentage of shares issued under our executive plans in the previous ten-year rolling period was 2.8%.
We do not currently operate an all-employee plan.
There is also a limit that the number of shares held in the employee share ownership plan trust Trust does not exceed 5% of the issued share capital at any time.
Details of this limit and movements in Trust shares are set out in the table below.
A dividend waiver operates for Trust shares.
Shares transferred to Balance of shares at Percentage of shares held at Balance at 31 December 2015 Shares acquired participants 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 2,518,624 Nil 505,157 2,013,467 0.12% Our normal policy is to satisfy awards under the SEP and ESOS by treasury shares: however we have flexibility to use newly issued shares or shares held in the Trust if necessary.
Awards under the DBP and the SIRP are satisfied by Trust shares.
During the year, awards under the SEP and ESOS were satisfied through treasury shares and those under the DBP by Trust shares.
Statement of voting at AGM The table below sets out the votes cast at the 2016 AGM for the annual report on remuneration and those cast at the 2014 AGM when the remuneration policy was last approved.
The remuneration policy is due to be renewed at the 2017 AGM as part of the normal three-year cycle.
Shareholders raised no issues at the 2016 AGM.
1 Votes for Votes against Total votes Votes withheld No.
During the year, we consulted with major shareholders on our new remuneration policy and remuneration arrangements generally, and are committed to doing so in the future.
Further details of the consultation with shareholders on the 2017 remuneration policy can be found in the Committee Chairmans letter.
Compliance statement This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Board has also complied with the remuneration principles in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors remuneration report, including the Chairmans letter, remuneration policy and annual report on remuneration, has been approved by the Board.
Signed on behalf of the Board Professor Richard Parry-Jones CBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2017 Note: changes to Directors interests on 28 February 2017: 2012 SEP core award 50% of vested core award shares that were deferred until 2017 and dividend equivalent shares were released as follows: Nigel Stein 174,978 core shares and 19,646 dividend equivalent shares Kevin Cummings 33,809 core shares and 3,791 dividend equivalent shares Phil Swash 24,686 core shares and 2,768 dividend equivalent shares 2012 SEP sustainability award Vested sustainability shares and dividend equivalent shares were released as follows: Nigel Stein 34,995 sustainability shares and 3,926 dividend equivalent shares Kevin Cummings 6,761 sustainability shares and 755 dividend equivalent shares Phil Swash 4,937 sustainability shares and 551 dividend equivalent shares As at 1 March 2017, there were no other changes in the interests of Directors.
106 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
