62 Directors Remuneration Report Section A: Annual Statement A Pivotal Year for Genus in Advancing and Delivering Our Strategy Letter from the Chairman Our strategy of transforming Dear Shareholder thebusiness into an agricultural On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2016. biotechnology pioneer requires Accelerating Strategic Progress important and necessary We have seen a year of significant progress for Genus.
We have reported a second year of double-digit adjusted profit before tax changes to the structure of growth in constant currency coupled with significant advances reward at a pivotal time for in delivery of our strategy.
You will see examples of this progress throughout the Annual Report, but particular highlights include thebusiness.
the successful integration and growth of our IVB business, preparations for the commercial launch of our proprietary sexed semen technology and an industry breakthrough with the generation of the first PRRSv resistant pigs.
Our strategy is transforming the business into an agricultural biotechnology pioneer, with a strong pipeline ofinnovation.
Gene editing, in particular, has the potential to be transformative for our business, although the time frame to develop and realise theseopportunities is long term.
In light of this strategic progress, during the year the Remuneration Committee the Committee reviewed the Companys Remuneration Policy to assess whether it supports delivery of the Groups strategy.
Maintaining this momentum requires stable leadership and aligning reward to reflect the progress made.
We identified specific goals that we wanted toachieve through our approach to remuneration as follows: flexibility to recognise very significant biotechnology and strategic Company milestones: ability to retain and attract top talent from a global talent pool: alignment of the interests of the executive and shareholders.
Having considered the progress made and the strategic direction of Genus together with these goals, our conclusion is that changes to the executive reward structure are required.
We believe that these are important and necessary changes at a pivotal time for the business.
Having discussed this as a Committee and with a number of our key shareholders, we believe these are important changes for our Remuneration Policy for 2017 and beyond, and will be seeking approval for this at the AGM, one year ahead of thenormal cycle.
This remuneration report is therefore split into two sections: the proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy : and the Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Report.
Our Revised Remuneration Policy from 2017 As we transform Genus, we need the ability to recognise better the key strategic milestones for the Company Company Nigel Turner Senior Independent Director and Chairman ofthe Remuneration Committee Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 63 To support our transformation towards becoming an animal Milestones, particularly as their benefit may only be reflected biotechnology business, we also propose that certain costs in some years later in traditional incentive plan measurements.
connection with the development of gene editing are excluded Wealso need the flexibility to recognise and retain key individuals from the calculation of awards.
We want to encourage vigorous who exist as part of a global talent pool, now and in the future, pursuit of the opportunities: because expenditure year on year sothat we optimise the execution of these initiatives to maximise will be variable, we want to ensure that considerations of the the Companys long-term performance and shareholder value.
remuneration impact do not influence executive decision-making.
By excluding gene editing, we drive the behaviours we seek from Our core bonus opportunity for each Executive Director will the executives and encourage management to invest for the remain at 125% of salary.
This will continue to be measured using long-term interests of shareholders.
We will follow this approach a combination of financial and non-financial metrics, and 25% of in determining the vesting of long-term awards in 2017 and 2018. the award made under the core bonus element will continue to bemade in shares and deferred for three years.
Shareholder Engagement The Committee consulted major shareholders in July and August We will introduce a new element to the annual bonus to recognise 2016 on the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy.
We are progress towards and achievement of Company Milestones.
Such grateful to our shareholders for their time and feedback, which milestones are significant events in the Companys development.
was challenging but supportive: they were very understanding of At the start of the year the Committee will determine what needs the direction the business is taking and wish to retain, as we do, to be achieved during the year to ultimately achieve the Company the current management team to deliver on the potential.
Milestone s. Any awards under this element up to 75% of salary for the Chief Executive and 50% of salary for the Group Finance Outcomes for 2016 Remuneration Director will be made fully in shares and deferred for three years.
In reaching the 2016 outcomes, the Committee has excluded This allows us to recognise industry-changing events for Genus amounts charged to the Profit and Loss account and cash flows that build future long-term value for shareholders and retain which were incurred in relation to our investment in gene editing.
individuals who will continue to make such events happen.
We This investment opportunity was not foreseen when targets will retrospectively disclose the Company Milestones within our were set.
Management reacted quickly to secure this value for Remuneration Report so shareholders have full visibility of the shareholders and to build our IP position following the PRRSv significance we have placed on particular strategic events.
We have therefore excluded these costs from the calculation of awards under the annual bonus and As a result the total possible opportunity under the annual bonus performance share plan.
The Committee is firmly of the view that will increase from 125% of salary to 200% for the Chief Executive this is the right approach and creates an appropriate alignment and to 175% for the Group Finance Director.
between underlying performance and reward.
Financial targets will continue to govern at least half of any Adjusted profit before tax, after an adjustment of 0.9m award under the annual bonus.
If awards were made under all ofgene editing investment, grew 12% in constant currency.
elements of the bonus, the total award in shares deferred for The performance of PIC, and specifically the business in China, three years would increase from 25% of any award to over 50% of resulted in good Group performance overall.
The Committee the annual award for the Chief Executive.
This change is designed therefore determined that 78.2% of maximum annual bonus to recognise progress, drive alignment with the business and aid should be awarded to the Chief Executive and 78.2% to the retention of executives through increased shareholding.
We believe it is important for our Executive Directors to be fully Under the long-term incentive, following adjustment for gene aligned to Company performance through significant shareholding editing costs and share-based payments as explained further levels in the business.
Alongside the change to annual bonus, within this report, the 2013 award partially vested.
The threewe are doubling the Executive Directors minimum shareholding year EPS growth rate was 25.4% and RPI was 5.7%, resulting in an requirement to 200% of salary currently 100%.
average annual EPS growth over the period of RPI 6.6%.
34.4% of the award will vest for Chief Executive and 31.4% for Group In order to complement the above policy changes, you will see Finance Director.
some amendments to the way we propose to implement the Remuneration Policy for 2017 in relation to the Genus plc 2014 Shareholders Views Performance Share Plan 2014 PSP.
Having reviewed market The Committee was delighted that it received 99.55% approval conditions, changes to our business strategy and the level of of the Remuneration Report in 2015.
We will continue to engage awards coming through our existing plans, we will adjust the EPS with shareholders, taking into account shareholder views and range for performance such that the annual EPS growth range will bestpractice.
be set at a threshold level of 5% for 20% vesting currently 6% through to 15% for full vesting currently 20%.
The previous range On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders was set ahead of the decision to accelerate further investment for their continued support.
The Committee hopes that the in research and development as part of our strategy, which report is clear and succinct and, as always, would welcome has potential to create significant value for shareholders.
If you wish to contact me, please email me at believe that this amended range continues to reflect stretching remunerationchair@genusplc.
The Committee looks performance against our agreed strategy, and that annual 15% forwardto your support for our Remuneration Report at EPS growth should warrant full awards under the 2014 PSP.
Thischange will be made for awards granted from 2016.
Nigel Turner Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Genus plc Annual Report 2016 64 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section A: Annual Statement continued This Remuneration Report has been prepared so it complies with the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, which set out the disclosures required for Directors remuneration as at the reporting date.
The report is also in accordance with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
The legislation requires the auditor to report to the Companys members on the auditable parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether, in its opinion, the parts of the report that have been subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with the legislation.
We have highlighted the parts of this report which have been audited.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 65 Section B: Directors Remuneration Policy Report The revised Remuneration Policy is set out in this section.
It is being put to shareholders for approval at the AGM to be held on 17 November 2016.
This is one year earlier than originally intended, as a result of the changes the Committee is proposing.
The Remuneration Policy is intended to apply, subject to shareholder approval, for three years from the 2016 AGM.
Where a material change to this policy is considered, the Company will consult with major shareholders prior to submitting the revised policy to all shareholders for approval.
Directors Remuneration Policy Report The key objectives of the Remuneration Policy are that: incentive structures should be simple, reward long-term sustained growth and key strategic milestones, rather pay should be competitive, so we can attract and retain than volatile performance: the best people: the policy should be clearly aligned with shareholders fixed pay base salary, pension and benefits should take interests, take due account of current best practice and account of appropriate external benchmarks both in not encourage undue risk taking: and the UK where we are listed and globally and pay for our otheremployees: policy principles for Executive Directors should apply tothe members of the Genus Executive Leadership short and long-term incentive pay should provide the Team GELT, with appropriate tiering through the opportunity to earn upper quartile total remuneration, widerworkforce.
subject to delivering our above-market long-term growthaspirations: we can recognise significant biotechnology and strategic Company Milestones: incentive pay should be directly linked to the Groups strategy, with targets relating to our key performance indicators using non-financial input measures and or output measures such as earnings per share and should be stretching, in light of our strategic plan: How we are Evolving Reward to Meet Identified Goals Goal Current Policy How we are Evolving Our Policy Greater flexibility to recognise the long term Weighted towards short term financial metrics Introduction of a new element within the annual benefit of achieving key Company Milestones bonus to recognise Company Milestones.
Whether this is included within the annual bonusdetermined annually in advance by theCommittee.
A strengthening in our ability to retain top talent Market competitive base pay Amended EPS performance range for the 2016 Compulsory holding period for shares released award maintaining stretch.
from PSP awards made since 2014 Increase in maximum possible award under the annual bonus.
Greater alignment of the interests of the Compulsory deferral into shares within Greater deferral within annual bonus structure, executive and shareholders annualbonus where over half of the award may be deferred for Long-term incentive plan awarded in shares three years.
Minimum shareholding requirement Increase in minimum shareholding requirements to 200% of salary.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 66 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section B: Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Future Policy Table Base Salary Benefits Pension To provide competitive fixed To provide competitive benefits and To provide a competitive Company remuneration that will attract and to attract and retain high-calibre contribution that enables effective retain key employees and reflect their employees.
experience and position in the Group.
Operation Operation Operation Reviewed annually as the norm, with Benefits generally include a car allowance Only basic salary is pensionable.
increases from 2017 usually effective and insured benefits e. g. life assurance from1 September.
Pension is provided by way of contribution to a personal pension or as a salary Periodically benchmarked against relevant Where Executive Directors are recruited supplement in lieu of pension provision.
market comparators, reflecting the size and from overseas, or required to relocate nature of the role, individual performance on an international assignment, benefits and experience, increases awarded to more tailored to their geographical other employees, Group performance and location may be provided and may include broader economic conditions.
relocation costs and or tax equalisation arrangements as necessary.
Where revised benefits are offered in a geographic location or across the Group, Executive Directors are likely to be eligible to receive those benefits on similar terms.
If the Company introduces an all-employee share plan, Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on the same terms asother employees.
Maximum Maximum Maximum Annual percentage increases are generally The car allowance value is limited to Pension contribution or salary supplements consistent with the range awarded across 20,000 per annum.
in lieu of pension are provided to a the Group and in line with the salary awards maximum of 25% of basic salary.
for the home country that the executive The value of insured benefits will vary year works in.
on year, based on the cost of providing insured benefits, and is included in the total Percentage increases in salary above single figure table on page 76. this level may be made in certain circumstances, such as a change in responsibility or a significant increase inthe roles scale or the Groups size andcomplexity.
Performance Conditions Performance Conditions Performance Conditions A broad assessment of individual and None.
Company performance is used as part of the salary review.
The salaries payable to the Executive Directors from 1 July 2016 are disclosed on page 74.
Changes Changes Changes Any salary award from 2017 onwards will None.
be effective from September rather than July.
This aligns pay awards with a review ofthe full years performance.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 67 Annual Bonus The bonus is split into two parts: A Company Milestone element incentivises In combination, these elements support A Core Bonus element incentivises against achievement of significant Company achievement of the Groups goals.
a combination of financial targets and Milestones.
This element is included at the personal objectives.
Operation 25% of the payments under the Core Malus and clawback provisions may A dividend equivalent provision operates, Bonus element are made in Company apply for a period of three years from the enabling dividends to be paid in cash or shares deferred for three years subject to point of award, in the event of a material shares on deferred shares that vest.
The remaining award misstatement of the Groups financial results.
Share awards are made under the Deferred Payments under the Company Milestone Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
Awards under element are made fully in Company either the Core Bonus element or Company shares deferred for three years subject to Milestone element will vest after three continued service.
years, subject to continued service.
Maximum Core Bonus opportunity: 125% of salary The Committee has the discretion to Therefore the maximum under the determine in which year the award is annualbonus is 200% of salary for The Committee has the discretion to award earned, and can choose to recognise theChief Executive, 175% for other an additional variable award up to 75% of achievement in a subsequent year.
salary for the Chief Executive, up to 50% Themaximum award in any year will of salary for other Executive Directors to beupto 75% for the Chief Executive, reward achievement of company milestones 50%for other Executive Directors.
under the Company Milestone element.
Performance Conditions Core bonus awards are subject to with a minority earned based on For financial performance targets under achievement against a sliding scale of performance against personal objectives.
the Core Bonus element, bonus is earned challenging financial targets and personal on a graduated scale.
The level of payment objectives, which the Committee sets The Company Milestone element at threshold is set annually but will not eachyear to reflect the priorities for the may beincluded by the Committee to exceed 25% of maximum.
incentivise and reward the achievement awards 100% payable are for substantial ofpre-determined Company Milestones.
The specific performance measures, targets and weightings are set every year The Committee has the discretion to adjust A summary of the performance targets for to align with the Companys strategy.
the bonus outcome in light of overall 2017 is included on page 74. underlying performance.
Any adjustment Financial targets govern the majority of made will be disclosed within the following Core Bonus payments and are typically Annual Report on Remuneration.
linked to the Groups key performance indicators e. g. profit and cash generation, Changes Additional element of bonus Company a long-term and significant personal Milestone element worth a maximum of shareholding requirement.
In years 75% of salary per annum for significant when a Company Milestone element is strategic achievements.
Awards from this included, the annual bonus maximum element in deferred shares further align increases from 125% to 200% of salary executives with shareholders and supports for the Chief Executive, 175% for other ExecutiveDirectors.
A diagram illustrating the structure of the annual bonus is shown on page 74.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 68 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section B: Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Future Policy Table continued 2014 PSP Share Ownership Guidelines The 2014 PSP incentivises executives to individuals and align their interests To align executives and shareholders.
achieve superior returns to shareholders with shareholders.
over a three-year period, to retain key Operation Operation Eligibility to receive awards is at the For awards granted from 2014, the after-tax Executives are expected to achieve a Committees discretion each year.
number of vested shares must be held for shareholding of 200% of salary, by retaining at least a two-year period following vesting.
50% of the net of tax number of vested Awards vest three years from grant, shares under the Companys DSBP and PSP.
subjectto continued employment and A dividend equivalent provision enables satisfaction of challenging three-year dividends to be paid in cash or shares on In addition, the Chief Executive Officer performance targets.
will retain the entire after tax number of Restricted Stock that was granted to him Malus and clawback provisions may apply shortly after his appointment.
for a period of three years, in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results.
Maximum Maximum Maximum annual award of 200% of Not applicable.
salary 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
Performance Conditions Performance Conditions Awards vest based on three-year A summary of the performance targets for Not applicable.
performance against a challenging range 2017 is given on page 80. of targets, aligned with the delivery of the Companys long-term strategy.
The Committee will review performance conditions annually, in terms of the Financial targets including adjusted EPS range of EPS targets and the metrics and growth will determine the vesting of a weightings applied to each element of majority of awards granted in any year.
Any revisions to the metrics and or weightings will only take place if it is Targets are typically structured as a necessary because of developments in challenging sliding scale, with no more the Companys strategy and, where these than 20% of the maximum award vesting are material, following dialogue with the for achieving the threshold performance Companys major shareholders.
Should the level through to full vesting for substantial Committee believe that a major change outperformance of the threshold.
of the current approach is appropriate for example, replacing a primary performance The awards will also be subject to an metric with an alternative, this would only underpin that enables the Committee to take place following a revised Directors scale back but not scale up vesting, if the Remuneration Policy being tabled Groups performance over the period is not toshareholders.
considered to reflect the progress made against its strategic business targets.
To align the executives with shareholder interests, minimum shareholding doubled from 100% of salary to 200% of salary.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 69 NEDs To provide compensation that attracts high-calibre individuals and reflects their experience and knowledge.
Operation The Committee determines the Chairmansfee.
The Board periodically reviews NonExecutive Directors fees.
No Directors take part in meetings where their own remuneration is discussed.
Fees are based on the time commitments involved in each role and set with reference to the fees paid in other similarly sized UK listed companies.
Maximum Any increase in Non-Executive Director fees may be above the level awarded to other employees, given that they may only be reviewed periodically and may need to reflect any changes to time commitments or responsibilities.
The periodic review may result in an increase beyond the fees currently payable.
Non-Executive Directors also receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in connection with Company business and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The fees payable for 2017 are stated on page 82.
Changes Clarification of approach to expenses and that Genus may settle any tax liability due in relation to reasonable expenses incurred.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 70 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section B: Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Approach to Recruitment Remuneration Area Policy and operation Overall When hiring a new Executive Director or making internal promotions to the Board, the Committee will apply the same policy as for existing Executive Directors, as detailed in the Remuneration Policy.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the next Annual Report on Remuneration.
For internal promotions, commitments made prior to appointment will typically be honoured, as the executive transitions to the new remuneration arrangements.
Awards made in the transition year would be pro-rated to reflect the remaining period of the vesting period or financial year.
Any award will take into consideration awards granted prior to promotion.
Base salary Base salary would be set at an appropriate level, to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current remuneration.
If the salary is initially set at a discount to those offered in companies of a similar size, geographical reach and complexity, the salary will be increased over a period of time to bring the salary to the desired level, subject to individual performance.
Benefits Benefits provisions would be in line with the normal policy.
In addition, reimbursement of legal fees in connection with recruitment may be reimbursed.
Where appropriate, the executive may also receive relocation benefits or other benefits reflecting normal market practice in the territory in which the Executive Director is employed.
Pension Pension provision would be in line with normal policy.
Annual bonus Incentive awards would be made under the annual bonus, in line with the normal policy.
The maximum award under the Policy is 200% of salary.
Where an individual joins after the start of a scheme year, awards may be pro-rated for the portion of the financial year.
Long-term incentives Awards under the Performance Share Plan would be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current Executive Directors.
In the event of internal promotion, existing awards made under the Plan will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms at the date of grant.
The Committee may choose to make an additional award on the same basis as other Executive Directors, subject to the overall limit permitted under the Plan in any year.
Where an individual joins after the start of the incentive grant, an award may be made to bring the executive onto the in-flight cycle, subject to the limits set out in the policy.
Awards may be pro-rated for the portion of vesting period served.
Buy-out awards In addition to normal incentive awards, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their current employer.
If required, the Committee would seek to reflect the nature, timing and value of awards forgone in any replacement awards.
Awards may be made in cash, shares or any other method as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Where possible, share awards will be replaced with share awards.
Where performance conditions apply to the forfeited awards, performance conditions will be applied to the replacement award or the reward size adjusted downwards.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buy-out, the Committee would also take into account the value of the other elements of the new remuneration package.
The Committee would aim to minimise the cost to the Company.
However, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal maximum.
Any awards would be no more valuable than those being replaced.
Malus and Clawback Malus and clawback may operate in respect of the annual bonus and long-term incentives.
These provisions enable the Company to reduce the payout and vesting levels or to recover the relevant value from cash bonus payout or vesting of shares.
These provisions could take effect in the event of erroneous or misstated financial accounts or other performance indicators within two years of the reporting date.
Discretions The Committee retains certain discretions, which are set out in full in the plan rules.
These include but are not limited to: the timing of any bonus payment: the impact of a change of control or restructuring: and any adjustments required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, corporate restructuring, special dividend or rightsissue.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 71 In line with the 2004 and 2014 PSP plan rules, the Committee can amend the performance conditions and or measures in respect of any award or payment, if one or more event s occur which would lead the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that such an amendment would not be materially less difficult to satisfy than the unaltered performance condition would have been, but for the event in question.
Should the Committee use any of the discretions set out above, they would, where relevant, be disclosed in the next Annual Report on Remuneration.
The views of major shareholders would be sought.
Discretion in relation to the Companys Share Incentive Plan scheme would be exercised within the parameters of the HMRC approved plan status and the listing rules.
Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors The charts below show how the Groups Remuneration Policy affects the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration at Colour the individual bits on differen top of each curve t levels of performance, both as a percentage of the total remuneration opportunity and as a total value: 2,903 3000 38% 2500 2000 1,806 1,741 30% 38% 37% 1500 1,091 30% 1000 30% 37% 710 30% 24% 100% 39% 441 500 100% 40% 25% 0 Fixed Target Maximum Fixed Target Maximum Chief Executive Karim Bitar Group Finance Director Stephen Wilson Fixed Pay Short Term Incentives Long Term Incentives Fixed Pay salaries as at 1 July 2016 benefits using the value to 30 June 2016 as a proxy pension 25% of salary for Chief Executive and 15% of salary for Group Finance Director.
Below Threshold fixed pay only.
Target annual bonus pays at 50% of the maximum core bonus and Company Milestone elements, PSP vests at 50% of the maximum award.
Maximum annual bonus and PSP pay out in full.
Share price growth has been ignored.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees The remuneration structure for the Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT follows the same approach as the Executive Directors but with a lower maximum opportunity.
Eligibility for the Company Milestone element below the Executive Directors is based on the Chief Executives recommendations and subject to approval by the Committee.
The Committee approves the annual objectives and targets for GELT together with salary awards, bonus targets and out-turns.
For the tier of management below GELT, the remuneration structure consists of base salary, benefits, pension, bonus and long-term share awards.
Performance measures are tailored to reflect the position of the individual and the part of the business in which they operate.
Below the leadership group, the structure and amount of remuneration vary by work level.
Generally, at less senior levels of the Group, total remuneration is less weighted towards performance-related pay, consisting of base salary, bonus and benefits relevant to the local jurisdiction and market practice.
The maximum provision and incentive opportunity available are determined by the seniority and specialism of the role.
The Group HR Director is invited to present to the Committee on the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally and any other changes to the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee approves the share award policy for all employees and the value of awards to all executives and potential new hires.
The Company did not consult with employees when drafting the Directors Remuneration Report.
How Shareholders Views are Taken into Account We consulted shareholders on the changes we are proposing for the new policy, specifically the short term bonus and EPS range for the long term award.
During July and August, we spoke to four of our largest shareholders, sharing the business progress and remuneration proposals.
We explained that, when the original policy was approved in 2014, the rate of return was expected to be higher.
Investments that we have recently made PRRSv resistant pigs, CRISPR-Cas9 technology, IVB Brasil have brought forward costs, which in the short term, will impact EPS growth.
We shared that we want to retain the very high calibre management team, and incentivise them to deliver on the opportunities.
We are grateful to our shareholders for their time and feedback, which was challenging but supportive: they were very understanding of the direction the business is taking and wish to retain, as we do, the current management team to deliver on thepotential.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 000 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section B: Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue with the Companys shareholders and will continue to consult with shareholders in the future.
Service Contracts, Compensation for Loss of Office and External Appointments Policy Executive Directors Under the Executive Directors service contracts, the Company is required to give 12 months notice of termination of employment, while the Executive Directors are required to give six months notice.
If either party serves notice, the executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period, during which time the Company may require the individual to fulfil their duties or assign a period of garden leave.
Under the Chief Executives contract, the Company may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice of up to 12 months base salary and benefits, in the event of it terminating his employment.
These payments may be made on a monthly basis, in which case the principles of mitigation apply and he would be obliged to seek alternative employment, with the payments reducing to the extent that he receives alternative income.
Under the Group Finance Directors contract, the Company may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice of up to 12 months base salary, in the event of it terminating his employment.
These payments may be made on a monthly basis, in which case he would be required to take all reasonable steps to find alternative employment.
The principles of mitigation may apply, which means the Company may reduce the monthly payments based on his actual earnings during the period for which the monthly payments are made, or the Companys assessment of the earnings that he could have received if he had sought alternative employment.
In certain circumstances, such as gross misconduct, the Company may terminate employment immediately without notice or payment.
The Committee may make any statutory entitlements or payments to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of any existing or future Executive Director as necessary.
The Committee also retains the discretion to meet any outplacement costs, if deemed necessary.
There are no enhanced provisions in the event of a change of control.
Executive Directors service contracts, which include details of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the AGM or at the Companys registered office.
Paying the cash element of annual bonuses is normally contingent on the executive being in employment and not under notice at the payment date, unless the Committee determines otherwise, for example in the event of a good leaver circumstance such as death, retirement, injury or disability, redundancy or employment being transferred outside the Group.
The payment of any bonus will be prorated for the period of service and subject to the relevant performance conditions being achieved.
The vesting of any deferred share bonus awards is determined by the DSBP rules.
In general, awards lapse when employment ceases.
However, the deferred share bonus award will vest in certain good leaver circumstances, such as death, retirement, injury or disability, redundancy, employment being transferred outside the Group or any other reason the Committee decides.
The vesting of any awards granted under the 2004 PSP is determined by the plans rules.
However, awards may vest in certain good leaver circumstances, such as death or any other reason the Committee decides.
This vesting is based on the extent to which the performance target has been satisfied.
The Committee may decide to reduce the award pro rata, reflecting the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed.
The vesting of any awards granted under the 2014 PSP will depend on the businesss performance, based on the full performance period, subject to the Committees final judgement.
Awards will be pro-rated based on the time that the individual was employed, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it thinks it is inappropriate to do so.
Alternatively, the Committee can decide that a good leavers award will vest when he leaves, subject to the performance conditions measured at that time and the pro-rating described above.
This treatment will apply in the case of death.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment detailed above for good leavers under the 2004 PSP and 2014 PSP would apply.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement.
Their appointment is for a fixed term of three years and is subject to one months notice of termination by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director, and to annual re-election at the Companys AGM, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Outside Appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this can broaden the Directors skills and experience.
When Stephen Wilson was appointed in January 2013, he was permitted to retain his Non-Executive Directorship of Xchanging plc and the associated remuneration.
Stephen Wilson retired from this appointment on 5 May 2016.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 73 Section C: At a Glance What Executive Directors Were Paid in 2016 Chief Executive Group Finance Director Explanation Base salary 537,367 364,140 These were the salaries set on 1 July 2015.
Benefits 23,000 14,000 This comprises a car allowance and insured benefits for both executives and a medical screen.
Pension 134,342 54,621 This is a cash allowance 25% of salary for the Chief Executive and 15% for the Group Finance Director in lieu of participation in a pension plan.
Annual bonus 525,545 356,129 For the short-term bonus award, after adjustment for gene editing costs, the Groups financial performance meant that awards for both the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director were 78.2% of maximum.
This is made up of: Adjusted profit before tax growth in constant currency of 12% excluding gene editing costs up to 60% of bonus 67.9% achieved.
Cash generation of 18.6m excluding gene editing investment up to 15% of bonus 100% achieved.
Non-financial strategic targets up to 25% of bonus The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director both received 90% for this element 22.5%.
We explain the link between pay and corporate performance on page 75 and provide detailed disclosure of the bonus targets and adjustment for gene editing costs on page 76.
Performance 385,283 208,521 The adjusted EPS figure was 60.7p.
The figure used for SharePlan determining vesting of PSP awards includes the impact of the cost of share based payments.
In addition, the Committee exercised discretion to exclude the impact of gene editing costs incurred, resulting in a revised EPS number of 57.1p.
This EPS level exceeds the threshold for these awards and therefore the Tier 1 awards granted to the Chief Executive and to the Group Finance Director on 26 September 2013 partially vest.
This is calculated using the average share price for the final quarter of the financial year ending 30 June 2016, which was1,532p.
Total 1,605,537 997,411 This should be viewed in the context of: A total shareholder return over the 2015 6 financial year of 97.8m 11.2% Adjusted EPS growth of 7% 10% in constant currency Genus plc Annual Report 2016 74 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section C: At a Glance continued What Executive Directors Can Earn in 2017 and How Chief Executive Group Finance Director Explanation Base salary 548,114 371,423 The Executive Directors have been awarded a salary increase of 2% as from 1 July 2016: this will be paid in September, backdated to July.
Benefits 25,000 14,000 There is no change to benefits.
Pension 137,029 55,713 The Chief Executive continues to be paid a 25% cash allowance in lieu of participation in a pension plan: the Group Finance Director receives a 15% cash allowance.
Annual bonus A core bonus element A core bonus element Core Bonus Element with target value of with target value of The measures for the core bonus element will remain: 62.5% of salary and 62.5% of salary and Adjusted profit before tax growth 80% of salary.
a maximum bonus of a maximum bonus of Cash generation 20% of salary.
125% of salary 125% of salary Personal objectives 25% of salary.
A Company Milestone A Company Milestone For the adjusted profit before tax growth measure, target bonus element with an element with an requires 10% growth and maximum bonus requires 15% growth in award of up to award of up to constant currency.
75% of salary for 50% of salary for achievement of achievement of Gene editing costs will be excluded in the calculation of adjusted profit Company Milestone Company Milestone growth and cash generation for 2016 17.
Company Milestone Element The Committee has determined eligibility for an award in respect of achieving an identified Company milestone during 2017.
Due to commercial sensitivity, this will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2017 Annual Report.
The opportunity is up to 75% of salary for the Chief Executive and up to 50% for the Group Finance Director.
These levels have been set following consideration of reward opportunities available from both UK and international benchmarks.
Performance Share Up to 86,271 shares Up to 51,153 shares The vesting of these awards depends on the adjusted EPS achieved in Plan November 2017.
Full details are given on page 80.
2014 awards This will be calculated excluding gene editing costs as described elsewhere in this report.
Performance Share An award over shares An award over shares The vesting of these awards will be subject to an adjusted EPS Plan awards that worth 200% of salary worth 175% of salary growth condition, with the 2019 EPS being compared to the 2016 will be granted in adjusted EPS of 57.1p excluding gene editing costs.
2016 and may vest in 2019 5% annual growth threshold 20% vesting.
Vesting levels will be calculated on a straight line basis between the above values.
This will be calculated excluding gene editing costs as described elsewhere in this report.
Annual Bonus Structure for Chief Executive: 2017 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 25% of salary 75% of any award: Paid in cash Core Bonus Personal Element 80% of salary PBT 20% of salary 25% of any award: Compulsory Share Deferral Shares Released Cash flow 75% of salary Shares Released Company 100% of any award: Compulsory Share Deferral Remuneration Milestone Committee determine Element annually in advance if element included Up to 200% of salary Total Annual Bonus opportunity for Chief Executive Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Award Determined Award Determined Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 75 Section D: Remuneration and Performance Statement Genuss Strategy and its Link to Performance-Related Pay R&D and business innovation Captured within the personal Success Link to Increase genetic objectives element of the measured by Remuneration annual bonus and through control and product Policy the Company Milestone differentiation element Proprietary genetic improvement and dissemination positions Targeting key Volume growth Measured through the profit markets and element of the annual bonus segments Over the longer term will flow Operating profit into EPS, used to determine vesting under the PSP Plan Sharing in the value Cash conversion Measured through the cash delivered element of the annual bonus See pages 65 to 72 for our Remuneration Policy Performance Components and Their Impact on Remuneration 2015 2016 Movement % Impact on remuneration Adjusted Results Revenue 398.5m 388.3m 3 Input to annual bonus profit and EPS in Performance Share Plan.
Adjusted profit before tax 46.6m 49.7m 7 Annual bonus measure.
Cash generation 22.6m 15.7m 31 Annual bonus measure: performance reflects increased capital investment in 2015 16.
Adjusted earnings per share 56.8p 60.7p 7 Performance Share Plan performance condition.
Dividend per share 19.5p 21.4p 10 Executives rewarded via dividend equivalent feature of deferred bonuses and Performance Share Plan awards.
Share price at year end 1,427p 1,565p 10 Determines the value of deferred bonuses and Performance Share Plan awards.
Values in the table are in actual currency as shown in the Annual Report.
A number of adjustments are made to these for the purposes of calculating awards under our incentive plans as described within this report.
Executive Directors Alignment to Share Price Consequence of Value at share Value at share a - 50 pence price on price on share price Maximum rights Total share 1 July 2015 30 June 2016 Difference change 1 2 Shares owned to shares exposure Conclusion Chief Executive 50,213 258,298 308,511 4,451,814 4,828,197 376,383 154,256 Executives are aligned to Group Finance Director 8,433 153,728 162,161 2,339,983 2,537,820 197,837 81,081 share price 1 Value of share price on 1 July 2015 14.43.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 76 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section E: Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction There are extensive legal and best practice disclosure obligations with which we comply in this section of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report is subject to an advisory vote at the AGM, with the new Directors Remuneration Policy in Section B being subject to a separate binding vote at this years AGM.
Balancing this formality with a desire to have a clear and understandable report, we have split this section into the following chapters: 1.
What the Executive Directors were paid in 2016.
What the Executive Directors can earn in 2017.
The process the Committee followed to arrive at these decisions.
How the Chief Executives pay compares to shareholder returns over the past six years and to employees pay.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees.
Details of the Directors shareholdings and rights to shares.
Details of the Directors contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment.
What the Executive Directors Were Paid in 2016 Executive Directors Single Total Remuneration Figure Audited The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration for the 2016 financial year for each of the Executive Directors and compares this figure to the prior year.
Variable pay remains in line with last year, based on another year of good overall performance.
Subtotal for Long-term Subtotal for 1 2 3 4 Salary and fees Benefits Pension fixed pay Bonus incentives variable pay Total Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Karim Bitar 2016 537 23 135 695 526 385 911 1,606 5 5 2015 527 24 132 683 650 289 939 1,622 Stephen Wilson 2016 364 14 54 432 356 209 565 997 5 5 2015 357 14 53 424 435 144 579 1,003 1 Benefits comprise a car allowance of 20,000 for Karim Bitar and 12,000 for Stephen Wilson, insured benefits include life assurance and private medical insurance and amedical screen.
2 Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension shown in the Pension column.
3 Bonus earned excludes gene editing costs incurred in 2016 outlined in the following section and includes the 25% which is deferred into Company shares for three years.
4 The value of long-term incentives is determined by the number of awards vesting in relation to performance ended 30 June 2016. Dividend equivalents are not added toawards made under the long-term incentives.
The value shown for 2016 is based on the average share price for the final three months of the 2016 financial year whichwas1,532p.
5 The 2015 values shown in the previous Annual Report have been updated to reflect the actual value at vesting share price was 1,496p vesting 8 December 2015 forawards for the Chief Executive and 1,431p vesting 29 February 2016 for awards for the Group Finance Director.
How the Bonuses for 2016 Were Calculated The 2016 bonuses for Executive Directors were calculated by reference to performance against a challenging sliding scale of profit, cash flow and personal targets.
As disclosed in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter, the Committee exercised discretion to exclude costs relating to gene editing incurred in the year when calculating awards under the plans.
These costs were unforeseen at the time of setting targets for these awards and the Committee believes that the targets remain as stretching as when the awards were originally made.
This ensured managements reward was not unfairly affected by decisions to make the right long-term investment decisions on behalf of the business.
The following are the results achieved in each element of the annual bonus incentive in a year of solid performance.
Extent to which Proportion Actual 2016 targets were met Bonus target Strategic objective of bonus performance Threshold Target Stretch % 1 Adjusted PBT Year-on-year profit 60% 52.1m 46.6m 51.2m 53.5m 67.9% 2 growth Cash flow Generate cash for 15% 18.6m 11.0m 14.0m 17.0m 100% reinvestment 3 anddividend Non-financial To build the 25% See table Chief Executive 90% strategic foundation for below Group Finance Director 90% objectives futuregrowth 1 Adjusted PBT in constant currency actual currency was 49.7m.
2 Adjusted PBT excludes gene editing costs of 0.9m, as agreed by the Remuneration Committee.
Without this adjustment the award level would have been 49.6% of maximum for this part of the bonus.
3 Cash flow excludes gene editing costs of 0.9m and capital expenditure of 2.0m, as agreed by the Remuneration Committee.
Without this adjustment the award would have been 78% of maximum.
The financial elements of the bonus are payable on a straight-line basis between each threshold, target and stretch level.
Overall extent to which the bonus targets were met: Chief Executive 78.2% Group Finance Director 78.2% Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 77 Performance against non-financial strategic objectives related to targets set in a number of areas that included customer, people, and product and service improvement.
Retrospective disclosure of performance against these targets is: Payout against maximum Executive Director Key achievements in the year of25% of bonus Karim Bitar Customer Achieved porcine targeted profit, volume and royalty growth 90% in key markets, most significantly in China.
In the bovine business, global volumes of doses declined 6%, adjusted operating profit lower in tough market conditions.
Improved capability and tools through GMS 2.0 launch, IVB laboratory facilities operational in US and at advanced construction in Mexico: Indian JV stud now fully operational.
People Further strengthening of leadership and succession, specifically in research and development.
Staff engagement scores in staff survey maintained their very high level see page 40.
Product and service Continued acceleration of genetic improvement in improvement PIC andreduced genetic lag to 3.3 years like-forlike sites.
Thisis described in more detail on page 16 .
Significant progress on GSS: scaling up of technology to commercial launch readiness and pursuit of litigation.
Significant progress on gene editing, with breeding of PRRSv resistant pigs and strategic collaboration with Caribou Biosciences on CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology.
Results Strategic review completed, with foundations of beef business set for 2016 17.
Stephen Wilson Customer Strengthened the good relationships with the Companys 90% stakeholders shareholders, evidenced by broker feedback following roadshows.
People Further strengthening of team, with high-quality recruits into Finance and IT.
Product and service Led the strategic review for the Board.
improvement Continued support for acquisitions, licensing and partnerships, including University of Missouri PRRSv andCaribou Biosciences gene editing technology.
Introduced IT tools supporting better sales force engagement with customers through mobile technology andfor the business with improved forecasting and budgeting tools.
Results Reviewed the capital structure and refreshed external borrowing facilities.
Led negotiations with the Milk Pension Fund to adopt CPI replacing RPI for increases.
Maintained tight internal cost management, risk management and controls.
As a result of this performance, the bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors were: Extent to which targets Maximum Actual Bonus payable Deferred 1 2 were met bonus total bonus immediately bonus Karim Bitar 78.2% 671,709 525,545 394,159 131,386 Stephen Wilson 78.2% 455,175 356,129 267,097 89,032 1 This is the number that appears in the single total remuneration figure on page 76.
2 The number of shares will be calculated in September when bonuses are paid.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 78 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section E: Annual Report on Remuneration continued How the Long-Term Incentive Figure Was Calculated in the Single Total Remuneration Table Karim Bitars and Stephen Wilsons 2014 PSP awards granted on 26 September 2013 were both subject to an adjusted EPS performance condition, based on the growth in adjusted EPS from a base year of 2013 compared to the adjusted EPS in 2016.
These awards were granted under our former policy.
The performance targets were as follows in relation to the awards: Tier 1 The range of targets applicable to awards with a value of 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary to the Group Finance Director were as follows: % of award Per annum growth in adjusted EPS vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 4% 30% RPI 11% 100% Tier 2 The range of targets applying to an additional award with a value of 75% of salary were as follows: % of award Per annum growth in adjusted EPS vesting RPI 9% Nil RPI 9% 10% RPI 10% 20% RPI 11% 35% RPI 20% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
From RPI 4%, a linear scale of 10% vesting per % increase in adjusted EPS was applied.
From RPI 11%, a linear scale of 7% vesting per % increase in adjusted EPS was applied.
As with the short-term award, the Committee exercised discretion to calculate the long-term award after the exclusion of gene editing costs incurred in 2016, to avoid a perverse impact on the Executives remuneration.
The adjusted 2016 EPS after the cost of share based payments and adjusting for costs relating to gene editing was 57.1p.
The comparable base 2013 adjusted EPS figure after the cost of share based payments was 45.5p.
This represents a three-year growth rate of 25.4%.
RPI over the three-year period was 5.7%.
As a consequence, the average annual growth in EPS was RPI 6.6%.
By applying the performance condition calibration, the resulting level of vesting is 34.4% for Karim Bitar and 31.4% for Stephen Wilson.
The different level of overall vesting reflects the higher level of award made to Karim Bitar under Tier 1 above.
Karim Bitars award was over a maximum of 73,107 shares, so the actual level of vesting is 25,149 shares and these will vest on 27September 2016.
Stephen Wilsons award was over a maximum of 43,347 shares, so the actual level of vesting is 13,611 shares andthese will vest on 27 September 2016.
The Companys average share price for the period 1 April 2016 to 30 June 2016 was 1,532p, meaning that the value of Karim Bitars award was 385,283 and Stephen Wilsons award was worth 208,521.
Material Contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Payments for Loss of Office and Payments to Former Directors Audited There were no payments for loss of office in the year.
John Worby ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2013.
Consistent with the terms of the relevant incentive plans, and as set out in previous Remuneration Reports, he was treated as a good leaver on his retirement.
His outstanding long-term incentive award granted on 7 December 2012 which was subject to performance ended 30 June 2015 vested on 8 December 2015.
23.4% of this award vested and as a result 3,089 shares were transferred to John with a value of 42,134, based on the share price on the date of transfer of 13.64.
Executive Directors External Appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept an external non-executive position, with the Boards approval.
Any fees received in respect of these appointments may be retained by the executive.
Stephen Wilson received 42,436 in relation to his Non-Executive Directorship at Xchanging plc for the period from 1 July 2015 to 5 May 2016.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 79 2.
What the Executive Directors Can Earn in 2017 A summary of this chapter is given on page 74.
Base Salary The Committee reviews the Executive Directors base salaries prior to each financial year, taking into account factors such as individual and corporate performance, an assessment of market conditions and, most importantly, the salary increases applicable to the Groups other UK employees.
The Executive Directors current salary levels with effect from 1 July 2016 and paid in September are as follows: Karim Bitar: 548,114 2% increase from 2016 : and Stephen Wilson: 371,423 2% increase from 2016.
The Committee determined that salaries would be increased by 2%, reflecting the average increase awarded across the UK employee population.
It did not refer to other market benchmarking data this year when making this decision.
Salary awards will move to a September review date from 2017, with no backdating of awards.
Benefits The Executive Directors will receive the following benefits-in-kind, namely a car allowance, life assurance, an annual medical screen and private medical insurance.
Pension In lieu of Company pension contributions, the Company pays Karim Bitar and Stephen Wilson a taxable pension allowance of 25% and 15% of basic salary per annum respectively.
Performance-Related Annual Bonus Consistent with the proposed Remuneration Policy, the Company bonus scheme for the 2016 17 financial year for the Executive Directors is: Value of bonus Maximum up to 200% of salary comprising: A core bonus element of 125% of salary based on profit, cash and personal objectives A Company Milestone element of up to 75% and 50% of salary for the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director respectively.
Bonus Chief Executive On target value of bonus 62.5% core bonus element plus 37.5% Company Milestone element : total on-target 100%.
Group Finance Director On target value of bonus 62.5% core bonus element plus 25% Company Milestone element : total on-target 87.5%.
Performance measures Adjusted profit before tax 80% of salary weighting.
Cash generation 20% of salary weighting.
Personal objectives 25% of salary weighting.
Company Milestone target 75% of salary weighting for Chief Executive.
50% of salary weighting for Group Finance Director.
Calibration of profit target No bonus is payable unless the prior years result is exceeded.
Thereafter, the core bonus award is determined on the following basis: Payout profit Percentage of Growth on prior year adjusted profit before tax PBT element salary awarded 0% 0% 0% 10% p. a. delivers 50% 40% 15% p. a.
100% 80% Straight-line payout between performance points.
In constant currency and excluding gene editing costs.
Calibration of cash generation target The cash target is the budgeted figure, with a specific range of 3m below the target and 3m above.
Specific numbers were set rather than a percentage range to ensure the executives were focused on actual cash generation.
Calibration of personal objectives Personal objectives are linked to successful implementation of objectives for the Executive Directors.
It would be commercially sensitive to disclose them in advance.
Wewill disclose retrospective performance against these targets.
Company Milestone Company Milestones represent pivotal and significant events in the Companys development, which reposition the Company as an agricultural biotechnology pioneer.
Such events would be significant strategic achievements and long-term value creating.
The Committee has determined that this element of the annual bonus will be included for 2016 17 for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The target and whether this has been achieved will be disclosed retrospectively.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 80 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section E: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Bonus deferral Of the 125% core bonus element, 25% will be deferred by way of shares for three years and will vest subject to continued employment, other than in certain good leaver circumstances.
For achievement of the Company Milestone element, any award of up to 75% of salary for the Chief Executive and 50% for the Group Finance Director will be deferred by way of shares for three years and will vest subject to continued employment, other than in certain good leaver circumstances.
Malus and clawback The Committee can apply malus to deferred bonuses and claw back any element of paid bonuses that should not have been awarded or paid, in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups annual results.
Long-Term Incentives Awards to be granted in 2016 will be granted in line with the policy approved by shareholders and under the 2014 Performance Share Plan.
The Chief Executive will be granted an award over shares worth 200% of salary and the Group Finance Director will be granted an award over shares worth 175% of salary.
These awards are in line with those in 2015.
The performance targets for the awards to be granted in 2016 will primarily relate to average annual growth in adjusted EPS, measured over three years and excluding gene editing costs.
The same approach will govern awards due to vest in 2017 and 2018.
The range of targets for the 2016 awards is as follows: Vesting Average annual growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS % award Less than 5% p. a.
100% Straight-line vesting between performance points Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be calculated on a simple average annual growth rate after the cost of share based payments and geneediting.
The Committee remains convinced that using adjusted EPS is the correct approach, for the reasons set out in the Performance andRemuneration Statement earlier.
The Committee believes the above targets are appropriately challenging, that they incentivise executives to deliver the Companys growth strategy and are therefore aligned with shareholders interests.
They also adhere to the principles of transparency and simplicity, to maximise the incentive provided to participants by the 2014 PSP.
As with awards currently granted under the 2014 PSP, the Committee will retain the ability to scale back vesting based on EPS performance if it does not consider the vesting result to be consistent with the progress achieved against the Companys strategy duringthe performance period.
This is considered appropriate to broaden the executive teams focus beyond financial performance.
2014 PSP awards granted in 2016 will continue to require the executives to retain the after-tax number of shares vesting in 2019 for two years.
Clawback and malus provisions may be applied at the Committees discretion, if the Companys results are found to have been materially misstated within three years of vesting.
The Process the Committee Followed to Arrive at These Decisions The Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It makes recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on remuneration for the Executive Directors and other members of GELT.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
During 2016, the Committee comprised: Director Independent status Attendance at meetings Nigel Turner Chairman Yes 6 6 Mike Buzzacott Yes 6 6 Duncan Maskell Yes 6 6 Lykele van der Broek Yes 6 6 Lysanne Gray Yes 2 3 Bob Lawson Yes 6 6 Lysanne Gray joined the Board on 1 April 2016.
Due to prior commitments pre-appointment, Lysanne Gray was unable to attend the April 2016 Remuneration Committee meeting following her appointment.
However, Lysanne was provided with all Committee materials and submitted feedback via the Chairman prior to the meeting.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 81 None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee, but are not present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee issupported by the Group HR Director and the Finance and Company Secretariat functions.
During the year, the Committee continued to use PwC for advice it considers is of value, objective and independent.
PwCs fees were 88,900 for its remuneration advice to the Committee.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct.
Separate teams within PwC provide unrelated advisory services including taxation, international assignments andacquisition related services to the Group.
During the year to 30 June 2016, the Committee met six times and considered the following matters: August 2015 September 2015 November 2015 Review of Directors Remuneration Approval of the Directors Remuneration Review of shareholder voting on the Report 2015.
The terms of the 2015 and 2016 Review of remuneration reporting Executive Annual Bonus Plan, and the for2015.
individual bonuses payable for 2015, in light of the Groups and individuals performances.
Testing of the performance conditions and approval of the vesting levels of long-term share incentive awards granted in 2012.
The individual long-term share incentive awards under the Companys 2014 PSP and 2014 Executive Share Option Plan, and the associated performance measures and targets.
Review of shareholdings by Executive Directors and GELT.
Approval of PSP for senior leadership.
April 2016 May 2016 June 2016 Review of the appropriateness of the Reward development discussions Reward proposals for 2017.
Companys Remuneration Policy and on appropriate policy for Executive Shareholder consultation discussion.
discussion of policy changes for the Directors.
How Shareholders Views are Taken into Account There was no consultation with shareholders during the year ending 30 June 2016.
Vote on Directors Remuneration Report advisory Total number % ofvotes of votes cast For 41,034,391 99.55 Against 184,719 0.45 Total number of shares in respect of which votes were validly made 41,219,110 100 Votes withheld 216,983 How Employees Pay is Taken into Account While the Company does not consult employees on matters of Directors remuneration, the Committee does take account of the policy for employees across the workforce when determining the Remuneration Policy for Directors.
The Group HR Director facilitates this process, presenting to the Committee the pay structures across the organisation and how they fit the Groups Remuneration Policy.
The process includes an annual staff engagement survey that includes questions on pay, as well as consulting employees informally on their views of the current overall Remuneration Policy.
This forms part of the feedback provided to the Committee and is used by the Group HR Director to assess the Policys ongoing effectiveness and the changes that should be made.
When setting the Executive Directors base salaries, the Committee compares the salary increases proposed for each Executive Director within those proposed for employees in their geographical location, as well as considering the typical increase proposed across the Group as a whole.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 82 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section E: Annual Report on Remuneration continued 4.
How the Chief Executives Pay Compares to Shareholder Returns Over the Past Seven Years and to Employees Pay Total Shareholder Return The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return TSR, compared with the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity market of which the Company isamember.
7 years of EPS 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 June 15 June 16 Genus FTSE 250 This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2016, of 100 invested in Genus plc on 30 June 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
Source: Thomson Datastream Year ending 30 June Richard Wood Karim Bitar 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 000 2,034 2,383 231 1,776 868 877 1,622 1,606 Annual bonus % of max 64% 94% 88% 77% 31% 32% 99% 78% Total PSP vesting % of max 100% 88% 26% 34% PSP vesting relates to all awards that were tested early on cessation of employment.
Includes payment as previously disclosed for loss of annual bonus 163,000 and the value of restricted stock 755,000 granted to compensate him for loss of value forfeit on joining Genus.
Chief Executive Pay Compared to Genus Employees Remuneration Received % Change From 2015 to 2016 Salary Benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive 2.0% -4% -19% UK comparators 1.9% 0% -16% A subset of the UK workforce comprising circa 25 employees with a bonus structure based on Group performance.
This is considered the most relevant comparator group for these purposes.
Distribution Statement % 2015 2016 Change Employee costs m 109.1m 118.4m 9% Distributions to shareholders 11.1m 12.2m 10% Includes dividends and share buy-backs.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees Fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors per annum are as follows: 2015 2016 2017 Position Fees Fees Fees Chairman 140,000 160,000 160,000 Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairs 50,000 60,000 60,000 Base Non-Executive Director fee 50,000 55,000 55,000 Genus plc Annual Report 2016 TSR rebased Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 83 Fees were increased in 2016 as explained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out in the 2015 Annual Report and approved at the 2015 AGM : the Chairmans fee, which had not been reviewed since 2010, was increased to 160,000 and Non-Executive Director fees, which were last reviewed in 2012, increased to 55,000 which total amount includes, for each of them, their fees for their extra services in respect of the time commitment and responsibilities attributed to their membership of the Boards Committees.
The additional services from the responsibilities of chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees were also recognised with an additional fee of 5,000, giving the Chairs of these Committees a total fee of 60,000.
Fees will continue at this level for 2017.
Total Single Figure of Remuneration Audited for 2015 and 2016 are as follows: Taxable Fees expenses Benefits TOTAL Non-Executive Directors Bob Lawson 2016 160 3 163 2015 140 140 Nigel Turner 2016 60 2 62 2015 50 50 Mike Buzzacott 2016 60 2 62 2015 50 50 Duncan Maskell 2016 55 2 57 2015 50 50 Lykele van der Broek 2016 55 6 61 2015 50 50 Lysanne Gray 2016 14 14 2015 Nil Total 2016 404 9 6 419 2015 340 340 The Non-Executive Directors taxable expenses relate to taxable travel expenses related to their role and have been grossed up for tax where applicable.
Details of the Directors Shareholdings and Rights to Shares Directors Shareholdings Audited The Directors had the following interests in the Companys shares: Unvested DSBP Unvested PSP % of awards at awards held at At 30 June 2016 % of shareholding 30 June 2016 30 June 2016 At 30 June 2015 Number salary held guideline Number Number Number Bob Lawson 7,201 n a n a n a n a 7,201 Karim Bitar 50,213 173% 173% 20,070 238,228 40,008 Stephen Wilson 8,433 63% 63% 12,475 141,253 3,071 Nigel Turner 15,000 n a n a n a n a 15,000 Mike Buzzacott 4,000 n a n a n a n a 4,000 Duncan Maskell 0 n a n a n a n a Lykele van der Broek 3,750 n a n a n a n a Lysanne Gray 0 n a n a n a n a Total 88,597 32,545 379,481 69,280 Based on the combined number of beneficially held shares and the net of tax DSBP awards held and the average closing share price over the three months to 30 June 2016 of 1,532 pence.
During 2016, executives were expected to achieve a shareholding of 100% of salary as set out in the Remuneration Policy agreed by shareholders in 2014.
There were no changes in the Directors interests between 30 June 2016 and the date of this report.
Company Share Price The market price of the Companys shares on 30 June 2016 was 1,565 pence and the lowest and highest share prices during the financial year were 1,281 pence and 1,620 pence respectively.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 84 Directors Remuneration Report continued Section E: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance Share Awards Granted in 2016 Audited The awards granted under the 2014 PSP were as follows: Number of shares Face maximum value % of award comprising of awards at grant date vesting at Executive award % salary threshold Performance period Karim Bitar 78,850 1,074,726 200% 20 01.07.1530.06.18 Stephen Wilson 46,753 637,243 175% 20 01.07.1530.06.18 The closing average share price over the three days prior to the award being granted has been used to determine the maximum face value of the awards.
This was 13.63 for Karim Bitar and Stephen Wilson award granted on 14 September 2015.
The awards were granted as nil-cost share options and vesting will be subject to achieving a challenging sliding scale of adjusted EPS growth target and a strategic underpin, consistent with our approved Remuneration Policy.
The adjusted EPS growth performance target for the above awards is: Vesting Average annual growth in adjusted EPS % award Less than 6% p. a.
100% Straight-line vesting between performance points Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be calculated on a simple average annual growth rate after the cost of share based payments and adjusted for gene editing costs.
Deferred Bonus Awards Granted in 2016 Audited The basis of the awards calculation is described in more detail on page 76, which resulted in the following DSBP awards being granted inrelation to the 2015 annual bonus: Number of shares Face value of comprising awards at Executive award grant date Karim Bitar 11,927 162,565 Stephen Wilson 7,980 108,767 These awards are not subject to any further performance conditions and will normally vest in full on 14 September 2018, subject to continued service.
The awards were granted on 14 September 2015.
The share price used to grant awards was 13.63.
Summary of Scheme Interests Audited The Executive Directors at 30 June 2016 had the following beneficial interests in share awards and share options: Karim Bitar At Granted Lapsed Exercised At Share price at 30 June 2015 in year in year in year 30 June 2016 Grant date Award Vesting period grant Number Number Number Number Number 7 December 2012 PSP 7 December 2012 to 1,369p 75,420 56,113 19,307 0 8 December 2015 26 September 2013 PSP 26 September 2013 to 1,413p 73,107 73,107 27 September 2016 30 December 2013 DSBP 30 December 2013 to 1,413p 3,495 3,495 27 September 2016 21 October 2014 DSBP 21 October 2014 to 1,111p 4,648 4,648 21 October 2017 20 November 2014 PSP 20 November 2014 to 1,221p 86,271 86,271 20 November 2017 14 September 2015 DSBP 14 September 2015 to 1,363p 11,927 11,927 14 September 2018 14 September 2015 PSP 14 September 2015 to 1,363p 78,850 78,850 14 September 2018 Total 242,941 90,777 56,113 19,307 258,298 Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 85 Stephen Wilson At Granted Lapsed Exercised At Share price at 30 June 2015 in year in year in year 30 June 2016 Grant date Award Vesting period grant Number Number Number Number Number 28 February 2013 PSP 28 February 2013 to 1,422p 43,063 32,987 10,076 0 29 February 2016 26 September 2013 PSP 26 September 2013 to 1,413p 43,347 43,347 27 September 2016 30 December 2013 DSBP 30 December 2013 to 1,413p 1,050 1,050 27 September 2016 21 October 2014 DSBP 21 October 2014 to 1,111p 3,445 3,445 21October 2017 20 November 2014 PSP 20 November 2014 to 1,221p 51,153 51,153 20 November 2017 14 September 2015 DSBP 14 September 2015 to 1,363p 7,980 7,980 14 September 2018 14 September 2015 PSP 14 September 2015 to 1,363p 46,753 46,753 14 September 2018 Total 142,058 54,733 32,987 10,076 153,728 In relation to the share awards granted on 14 September 2015, the closing average share price over the three days prior to 14 September 2015 the grant date for the PSP awards was used 1,363 pence to determine the number of shares comprising individual awards.
The performance targets applying to the 14 September 2015 awards are as described above.
All the earlier 2004 PSP awards made prior to 2014 have a more complicated structure to their EPS targets and these are described in our previous Annual Reports.
No further performance conditions apply to the DSBP awards.
Dilution The aggregate dilution of all relevant share incentives is 5.54% at 30 June 2016, which is less than the permissible 10% in ten years dilution limit.
Details of the Directors Contracts and Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment Notice period Director Appointment date Current contract date Expiry date Months Executives Karim Bitar 24 May 2011 24 May 2011 n a 12 from Company 6 from executive Stephen Wilson 12 December 2012 12 December 2012 n a 12 from Company 6 from executive Non-Executives Bob Lawson 11 November 2010 11 November 2013 10 November 2016 1 Nigel Turner 17 January 2008 16 January 2014 15 January 2017 1 Mike Buzzacott 7 May 2009 5 May 2015 4 May 2018 1 Duncan Maskell 1 April 2014 1 April 2014 31 March 2017 1 Lykele van der Broek 1 July 2014 1 July 2014 30 June 2017 1 Lysanne Gray 1 April 2016 1 April 2016 31 March 2019 1 Approval This report was approved by the Remuneration Committee and signed on its behalf by: Nigel Turner Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 September 2016 Genus plc Annual Report 2016
