138 GSK Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy report Future policy table Subject to shareholder approval at the companys AGM on 4 May 2017, the Remuneration Policy for each remuneration element will be as outlined in the table below.
Salary No material change Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity To provide a core reward for the role.
There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary increases will be broadly in line with the average increases for the wider GSK Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals workforce.
needed to deliver the Groups strategic priorities.
However, increases may be higher to reect a change in the scope Operation of the individuals role, responsibilities or experience.
Salary Individuals role, experience, performance and independently adjustments may also reect wider market conditions in the sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when geography in which the individual operates.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual report on Salary increases typically take effect in the first quarter of each year.
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the Executive Directors Performance measures home country.
The overall performance of the individual is a key consideration when determining salary increases.
Benets No material change Purpose and link to strategy role, Executive Directors are also entitled to car travel and may be Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute accompanied by their spouse partner on business trips.
benets include expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business, which are deemed to be taxable benets on the individual.
Operation Executive Directors are eligible to receive benets in line with the benefit provision is tailored to reect market practice in the policy for other employees which may vary by location.
These include, geography in which the Executive Director is based and different but are not limited to, car allowances, healthcare, life assurance policies may apply if current or future Executive Directors are based death in service where not provided as part of the individuals in a different country.
pension arrangements, personal financial advice and contractual Opportunity post-retirement benets.
In line with the policy for other employees, There is no formal maximum limit as benets costs can uctuate Executive Directors may be eligible to receive overseas relocation depending on changes in provider cost and individual circumstances.
allowances and international transfer-related benets when required.
Details of current benets and costs are set out in the Annual report Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in all-employee on remuneration.
share schemes e. g. Share Save and Share Reward Plan, under which they are subject to the same terms as all other employees.
In order to recognise the high business travel requirements of the Pension No material change Purpose and link to strategy UK: Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement 20% of salary contribution to dened contribution plan and further income.
5% in matched contributions subject to any relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for other members of the plan: Operation or Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
operated in the country in which the individual is likely to retire.
Where the individual chooses not to become a member of the pension plan, US: cash in lieu of the relevant pension contribution is paid instead.
Eligible for the same benets as other US senior executives: Executive Directors in the UK are entitled either to join the dened Cash Balance Pension Plan and Supplemental Cash Balance contribution pension plan or to receive a cash payment in lieu of Pension Plan, including Executive Pension Credit, provide maximum pension contribution.
contribution of 38% of base salary across all pension plans.
GSK 401 k plan formerly the US Retirement Savings Plan and Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy dened benefit the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan with core contributions plan, a dened contribution plan or an alternative pension plan of 2% of salary and bonus and matched contributions of 4% of arrangement and is subsequently appointed to the Board, he or she salary and bonus.
may remain a member of that plan.
Global: Opportunity Eligible for appropriate equivalent arrangement not in excess of the The policy for all current Executive Directors and new external US UK arrangements.
recruits is: Performance measures None.
139 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Future policy table continued Annual bonus Change The Committee may apply judgement in making appropriate Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy adjustments to bonus outcomes to ensure they reect underlying on an annual basis.
Rewards the achievement of stretching annual financial and Clawback and or malus provisions apply as described on page 140. strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives.
Opportunity Operation The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is 200% of Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of salary.
For threshold performance, the bonus pay-out will be nil.
the year by the Committee and bonus levels are determined by the For target performance, the bonus payout will be 50% of the Committee based on performance against those targets.
Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the Committee Performance measures and performance against those objectives is assessed by the Based on a combination of financial targets and individual strategic Committee.
performance objectives, with the majority of the bonus assessed Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus earned against the financial measures.
The weighting between different into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years.
measures will be determined each year according to business priorities.
Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.
Further details, including the measures to be used in the financial year, are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
Selection of annual bonus measures The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSKs The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal annual financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of review of performance against stretching financial targets with the personal objectives.
remainder of the bonus subject to a balanced scorecard of strategic and individual targets which are aligned to the companys key objectives for that financial year.
Performance Share Plan PSP Change Purpose and link to strategy Clawback and or malus provisions apply as described on page 140.
To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business Opportunity priorities, financial growth and increases in shareholder value The normal maximum award limits that may be granted under the compared to other pharmaceutical companies.
PSP to an individual in any one year are set out in the table below: In addition, to provide alignment with shareholder interests, a In 2017, the award to the CEO will be 550% of salary.
retention element, to encourage long-term shareholding and % of salary discourage excessive risk taking.
CEO 650 Operation CFO 400 Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent on Other Executive Directors 500 the achievement of performance conditions over three years and are subject to an additional two-year holding period.
Performance measures Based on a combination of financial, share price related and Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of strategic performance conditions which are aligned to the vesting and release.
Up to 30% of awards will vest at The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome either threshold performance.
Further details, including the performance up or down to ensure that the overall outcome reects underlying targets attached to the PSP in respect of each year, are provided business performance over the vesting period.
in the Annual report on remuneration.
Selection of long-term incentive measures The Committee selects performance measures which focus Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance measures will Executive Directors long-term remuneration on the delivery of GSKs be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
The Chairman of the Audit key strategic priorities over the longer term.
In addition to setting and Risk Committee and other members, who are also members of robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number of the Remuneration Committee, provide input on the Audit & Risk safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a sustainable way and Committees review of the Groups performance and oversight of performance reects genuine achievement against targets and any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions.
therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
Details of the rationale behind the performance measures selected For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or and how they are calculated is set out in the Annual report on divestment will be quantied and adjusted for after the event.
140 GSK Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy report continued Future policy table continued Legacy arrangements Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP Removed from 2017 onwards Purpose Performance measures To incentivise and recognise delivery of longer term business Outstanding matching awards are subject to the same measures as priorities and to provide alignment with shareholder interests and awards made under the PSP in any given year.
Further details of outstanding awards are provided on pages 122 Operation and maximum opportunity and 135 of the Annual report on remuneration.
No matching awards For bonus payments up to and including the bonus in respect will be made under the DABP in respect of bonus from 2017 of 2016, Executive Directors were required to defer 25% of onwards.
any bonus earned into shares for three years.
They could also voluntarily defer up to an additional 25% of any bonus earned.
These deferred shares were matched up to a maximum of 1:1 subject to the achievement of performance conditions over three years.
Matching awards were conditional shares or nil-cost options and eligible for dividend equivalents.
Share Ownership Requirements Increase in requirement for CEO To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of Executive Directors are also required to continue to satisfy these shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant requirements for a minimum of 12 months following retirement from holdings of shares in GSK over time.
The requirements for each the company.
Executive Director are as follows: % salary CEO 650 Other Executive Directors 300 Clawback and malus No change In the event of a triggering event e. g. significant misconduct by way In respect of each financial year, the Remuneration Committee will of violation of regulation, law, or a significant GSK policy, such as the disclose whether it or the Recoupment Committee has exercised Code of Conduct, the company will have the ability to claw back up clawback or malus.
Disclosure will only be made when the matter has to three years annual and deferred bonuses as well as vested and been subject to public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully unvested LTIs.
In addition, if a participant in the new 2017 PSP or resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can DABP, which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2017 AGM, be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore is subject to an investigation, then the vesting of their awards may be shareholders.
delayed until the outcome of that investigation.
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a investigate relevant claims of misconduct.
The Recoupment problem, the adverse event should be taken into account in Committee exercises this authority for the wider employee base.
assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the year It comprises of senior executives with relevant oversight and the problem is identied and for future periods.
The Remuneration appropriate experience, including the Senior Vice President, Global Committee or Recoupment Committee may make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as well as grant and Ethics and Compliance, and the Senior Vice President & General vesting levels of LTI awards to reect this.
141 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee determines the remuneration package of new The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to recruitment Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on the packages and, in particular, the buying out of rights relating to role, the market from which they will operate and their experience.
It will therefore seek to minimise such Total remuneration levels will be set by reference to a relevant pay arrangements.
However, in certain circumstances, to enable the comparator group and, where appropriate, will allow for future recruitment of exceptional talent, the Committee may determine development in the role.
that such arrangements are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
Such arrangements will, where possible, It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate in short be on a like-for-like basis with the forfeited remuneration terms.
and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as existing directors.
Arrangements will therefore vary depending on the plans and However, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee reserves the arrangements put in place by the previous employer and may be exibility to set the incentive limit for a new Executive Director at up in the form of cash or shares and may or may not be subject to to an additional 50% of the existing limits.
Explanations will be provided where The Committee retains this exibility in recognition of the high payments are made as compensation for previous remuneration levels of variable pay in GSKs global pharmaceutical competitors.
However, the Committee will only use this exibility when it is The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed Executive considered to be in the best interests of the company and its Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable after the investors.
Pension arrangements for any external recruit as an Executive The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chairman Director will be as set out in the Remuneration policy table on and Non-Executive Director.
Chairman Other benets will be provided in line with the policy for existing Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by Executive Directors.
other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Fees will be Where required to meet business needs, relocation support paid partly in shares.
will be provided in line with company policy.
Non-Executive Directors For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the remuneration elements will continue, including pension same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the company.
entitlements and any outstanding awards.
However, where not Subject to local laws and regulations, fees will be paid partly in already the case, internal appointments will be required to move shares.
to Executive Director contractual terms, including termination In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and provisions.
responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked and set by reference to comparable roles in companies of equivalent size and complexity.
142 GSK Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy report continued Loss of ofce payment policy The company does not have a policy of xed term contracts.
Generally, Notice period on termination by the employing company or the contracts for new appointments will expire in line with the applicable Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has been 65.
The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period and a Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the dates shown non-solicitation restriction on an Executive Director is considered on page 124. important by the company to have the ability to protect the Groups intellectual property and staff.
In light of this, the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts.
Termination of employment In the event that an Executive Directors employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of Remuneration Loss of ofce payment policy Termination payment Termination by notice: 12 months annual salary payable on termination by the company pro-rated where part of the notice period is worked.
No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the contract expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment.
However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial imperatives and best practice.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice.
In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply.
In the US, general severance policy does not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP and DABP matching awards are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders.
For awards made prior to the approval of the 2017 PSP and DABP rules, the following provisions will normally apply: Termination by notice: Unvested awards will lapse.
Redundancy and retirement: Generally, awards will continue to vest over the original timescales, subject to the original performance conditions.
Awards made in the last 12 months are forfeited.
Death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, performance will be assessed following the end of the financial year in which cessation of employment occurs and awards will vest up to 12 months following cessation.
Awards may be pro-rated for time.
For awards made under the approved rules of the 2017 PSP, the following provisions will normally apply: Termination by notice: Unvested awards will lapse.
Redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, awards will continue to vest over the original timescales subject to performance and pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP and DABP matching awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and normally taking into account the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, the awards may be exchanged for new awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December, the bonus is forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury or disability: If the termination date falls during the financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus if employed on 31 December, bonus payable based on actual results.
DABP deferred DABP deferred bonus awards are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders.
For awards made prior to the approval of bonus awards the 2017 DABP rules, the following provisions will normally apply: Termination by notice: Awards will vest in full on the date of termination or original vesting date as determined at the date of grant Redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, awards will vest in full on the original vesting date.
For awards made under the approved rules of the 2017 DABP, the following provisions will normally apply: Termination for gross misconduct: Generally, unvested awards will lapse Any other reason: Generally, awards will vest in full on the original vesting date.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest or may be exchanged for new awards.
Benets Generally, benets will continue to apply until the termination date.
The Committee may make payments in connection with an existing legal obligation or in respect of any claim related to the cessation of employment.
This may include fees for outplacement assistance, legal and or professional advice.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement US executives : In line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, the Chairman, Global Vaccines may become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and dental insurance after termination retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement In certain circumstances, it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession planning and the development of the senior talent pipeline.
In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an Executives departure will be by mutual agreement.
In order for this to apply, the Committee will need to be satisfied that the Executive has demonstrated performance in line with expectations, where required they should have contributed to an orderly succession, and they should have completed at least 20 years service with the Group on the termination date.
In the case of an Executive Director, they would then be treated as a good leaver for the purposes of GSKs long-term incentive plans.
If the termination date falls during the financial year, they would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are employed on 31 December, the bonus payable would be based on actual results.
143 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Loss of ofce payment policy continued The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the Committee provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of termination will carry out an assessment of the individuals performance and payments in a manner which would benefit an Executive Director.
conduct over the time in role.
If it is determined that the individuals However, there may be unforeseen circumstances where this is in performance or conduct was contrary to the legitimate expectations the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
Where it of the company, the Committee reserves the right to apply is necessary to exercise discretion, explanations will be provided.
appropriate mechanisms such as clawback or reduction or lapsing of outstanding incentive awards malus, to ensure that any termination payments are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders see page 140.
Differences between remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other employees When setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors, Salary and benets including pension are tailored to the local the Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, market.
the competitive environment through comparison with the The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee population remuneration of executives at companies of similar size, complexity and is based on business and individual performance.
and international reach and the positioning and relativities of pay A combination of performance-related and restricted share plans and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce.
apply to the wider employee population.
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base salary rises All-employee share plans are available to employees in the UK, for the workforces of those parts of GSK where the Executive including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK Share Save Directors are employed.
This is considered to be the most relevant and Share Reward Plans.
comparison as these populations reect most closely the economic environments encountered by the individuals.
While employees are not formally consulted in respect of the Remuneration policy, the company conducts regular employee The same principles apply to the Remuneration policy for Executive surveys which include feedback on remuneration matters.
Directors and other employees although the remuneration offered to Executive Directors under this policy has a stronger emphasis In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance on performance-related pay than that offered to other employees and reward systems with our values and since 2014, our of the Group.
performance system formally evaluates employees on both what they need to do and how they do it.
Also, for our most senior people we dis-incentivise unethical working practices using a clawback mechanism that allows us to recover performancerelated pay.
144 GSK Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy report continued Scenarios for future total remuneration The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total Emma Walmsley, new CEO 000 remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2017 under the policy.
A range of potential outcomes is provided for each Executive 10,000 Director and the underlying assumptions are set out below.
8.85m 62% All scenarios: 8,000 2017 base salary has been used.
6,000 2016 benets and pension gures have been used for the CFO, i. e. based on actual amounts received in 2016 in respect of the 3.80m ongoing policy.
As the new CEO and President, R&D were not in 4,000 39% role during 2016, the benets value for each is based on the value 23% of benets excluding pensions provided in 2016 to the current 2,000 1.33m 26% CEO and CFO respectively.
100% 15% 35% 0 The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based on Fixed Expected Maximum the relevant multiples for 2017.
They do not include amounts in respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor in changes to Simon Dingemans, CFO 000 share price over the vesting period.
Fixed: None of the pay for performance annual bonus and PSP would 6,000 5.52m be payable.
55% 4,000 Expected: 2.56m For the annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance is 31% 2,000 achieved.
27% 1.0m 30% For the PSP awards, threshold levels of vesting are assumed.
39% 18% 100% 0 Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum: It is assumed that the annual bonus would be payable at the maximum level and that the awards under the PSP would vest Dr Patrick Vallance, President, R&D 000 in full.
8,000 6.49m 6,000 60% 4,000 2.85m 37% 24% 2,000 1.03m 27% 100% 36% 16% 0 Fixed Expected Maximum Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP 145 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 2017 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Chairmans fees To provide an inclusive at rate fee that is There is no formal maximum.
However, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference competitive with those paid by other to a review of the Chairmans performance and independently sourced market data.
companies of equivalent size and The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board complexity subject to the limits contained on the fees payable to the Chairman.
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in in GSKs Articles of Association.
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and or GSK shares or ADS via the Non-Executive Directors Share Allocation Plan.
Basic fees As above As with the Chairman, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference to independently sourced data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the companys Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS.
Using the Non-Executive Directors Share Allocation Plan which delivers the shares or ADS to the Non-Executive Director following retirement from the Board.
Supplemental To compensate Non-Executive Directors Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, fees other than the Chairman for taking on Science and Medical Experts and intercontinental travel.
additional Board responsibilities or undertaking intercontinental travel.
Benets To facilitate execution of responsibilities Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal course and duties required by the role.
of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other GSK-hosted events.
For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
In the event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst not normal practice, NonExecutive Directors may be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings or events.
The costs associated with the above are all met by the company and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated as benets for the Non-Executive Director.
146 GSK Annual Report 2016 Remuneration policy report continued Operation and scope of Remuneration policy The proposed Remuneration policy Policy is set out on pages 138 Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which the for GSKs Executive and Non-Executive Directors will apply from award has been granted.
The Committee may adjust or amend the close of the companys Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017 awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
after it has been submitted by the Committee for approval by This includes making adjustments to reect one-off corporate shareholders.
events, such as a change in the companys capital structure.
The Committee has written this Policy principally in relation to the The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst taking set out in this report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or into account the possible recruitment of a replacement or an administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation additional Executive Director during the operation of this Policy.
without obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
The Committee intends this Policy to operate for the period set out Statement of consideration of shareholder views above in its entirety.
However, it may after due consideration, seek The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and to change the Policy during this period, but only if it believes it is holds annual meetings with GSKs largest investors to discuss and appropriate to do so for the long-term success of the company, take feedback on its Remuneration Policy and governance matters.
after consultation with shareholders and having sought shareholder The annual meetings were held in December 2016, at which Urs approval at a general meeting.
Rohner, the Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2017 onwards.
payments and or payments for loss of ofce including exercising Further shareholder consultations were carried out in February any discretions available to it in connection with such payments and March 2017 by the Committee Chairman on the proposed notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out Remuneration policy.
The Committee took into account the feedback above where the terms of the payment were agreed: from shareholders in determining the Policy which shareholders are i before the AGM on 7 May 2014 the date the companys first being asked to approve at the AGM on 4 May 2017. shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares or ADS, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Basis of preparation The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration gures for Executive Directors including further details for each element of remuneration salary, benets, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive awards : Non-Executive Directors fees and emoluments received in the year: Directors interests in shares, including interests in GSK share plans: payments to past Directors: payments for loss of ofce: and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 156.
The remaining sections of the Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Urs Rohner Remuneration Committee Chairman 13 March 2017 147 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial statements In this section Directors statement of responsibilities 148 Independent Auditors report 149 Financial statements 158 Notes to the financial statements 162 Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP 232
