Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2016 On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to As at the 2014 AGM, to reflect best practice, we shall be present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year seeking shareholder approval of our remuneration ended 31 December 2016.
As ever, we have sought to make arrangements through two votes, one on the Directors this report as short, simple and straightforward as possible.
Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy and a separate vote on our Directors As a Jersey registered company headquartered in Remuneration Policy.
Both will technically be advisory only Switzerland, Glencore is not subject to the UKs reporting as the Company is not subject to the UK statutory regime to regime although as we consider it to be broadly reflective of make the latter binding although, clearly, the Committee good practice, this report is prepared in full compliance will take any voting outcome extremely seriously.
with the UK rules, unless stated otherwise.
Accordingly, over the following pages, we have set out: The only change in Board remuneration is an increase in the fees of the Non-Executive Directors, the first since the rates the Groups forward-looking Directors Remuneration were set in early 2011.
While no material changes will be made to the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2016, as the Company The Committee continues to ensure that the Directors reaches the end of the third anniversary of the original Remuneration Policy and its implementation are attractive policy approval at the 2014 AGM, a resolution will be to shareholders in reflecting good governance, complete tabled to approve a new Directors Remuneration Policy at simplicity and reasonable terms.
the 2017 AGM: and details of the implementation of our reward policy in John Mack 2016 including: Remuneration Committee Chairman the governance surrounding pay decisions in 2016, 1 March 2017 members of the Committee and its advisers in 2016: and details of what was paid to Directors during the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 99 Governance Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2016 Introduction Part A Directors Remuneration Policy We have presented this Remuneration Report to reflect the The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in this section reporting requirements on remuneration matters for of the report will take effect for all payments made to companies with a UK governance profile, particularly the directors from the date of the 2017 AGM.
Whilst it does not UKs Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups differ materially from that approved at the 2014 AGM, the Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will apply UK Remuneration Regulations.
The Company aims to until approval is obtained for the new policy.
Any changes comply in all material respects with the reporting to the policy are highlighted where relevant.
obligations within these regulations as a matter of good UK Remuneration Regulations and related investor practice.
The report also describes how the Board has guidance encourages companies to disclose a cap within complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate which each element of remuneration policy will operate.
Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
The Committee has set an annual cap for each element of Our auditors have reported on certain parts of the Directors remuneration under the maximum opportunity column Remuneration Report and stated whether, in their opinion, which will apply until a revised policy is approved those parts of the report have been properly prepared.
Those sections of the report which have been subject to The General policy table which begins below must be read audit are clearly indicated.
alongside the notes set out on page 102 which together set out and explain our remuneration policy.
The policy for Executive Directors currently only applies toMr Glasenberg as he is the only Executive Director.
General policy Elements of the package Remuneration Policy for the Directors is summarised in the table below: General Policy for We have the same philosophy as any other Remuneration Committee, namely to set the Companys remuneration policies Executive Directors and practices so that they promote the long-term success of the Company and support the implementation of the Groups strategy while aligning the interests of the Executive Directors and executives with those of shareholders generally.
This this section does policy has consistently underpinned our entire approach to executive remuneration.
not technically form part ofthe Directors The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not raise any Remuneration environmental, social or governance issues and does not promote excessive risk taking.
Policyandisfor One exceptional aspect of our CEOs remuneration is that, at his instigation and reflecting his status as a major shareholder, information only he does not participate in bonus or LTI arrangements, a policy which will continue into 2017.
As a result, we are currently able to set overall remuneration for our CEO at significantly lower levels than in comparable companies.
The Committee believes that his significant personal shareholding creates sufficient alignment of interest with shareholders in the absence of participation in a bonus or LTI arrangement.
Key changes to last Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures approved policy Base salary Salaries are positioned within a market Base salaries are Not applicable N A None competitive range for companies of a reviewed annually Provides market similar size and complexity withthe next review competitive fixed dueto take place in remuneration The Committee does not slavishly follow December 2017 thatrewards data but uses it as a reference point in relevant skills, considering, in its judgement, the The Committee has not responsibilities appropriate level having regard to other increased Executive and contribution relevant factors including corporate and Director salary levels individual performance and any changes since the Companys in an individuals role and IPOin May 2011, responsibilities demonstrating a responsible approach to Base salary is paid monthly in cash setting base salaries Mr Glasenberg, the CEO, is the only Executive Director on the Board.
Abase salary cap of $1,447,292 p. a. being his current salary, has been set so that no voluntary increase will be made to his base salary without shareholder approval or unless the law otherwise requires 100 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Key changes to last Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures approved policy Benefits Provides appropriate insurance cover Benefits received by N A None benefits MrGlasenberg comprise To provide salary loss long-term appropriate Values are shown in the single figure sickness and accident supporting table below but may fluctuate without the insurance travel non-monetary Committee taking action insurance benefits The Company may periodically change A monetary limit the benefits available to staff for the office of$20,000 p. a for at which an Executive Director works in MrGlasenberg has which case the director would normally beenset be eligible to receive the amended benefits on similar terms to all relevant staff.
In the case of Mr Glasenberg, this would be expected to mean employees generally in the Baar office Pension Mr Glasenberg participates in the An annual cap on the N A None definedcontribution scheme for all cost of provision of Provides basic Baar Switzerlandbased employees retirement benefits of retirement $150,000 per Executive benefits which Director has been set reflects local market practice Annual Bonus Plan Annual Bonus plan levels and the The Committee has set The performance None appropriateness of measures are amaximum annual measures applied may be Supports delivery reviewed annually to ensure they bonus level of 200% financial, non-financial of short-term continue to support the strategy ofbase salary p. a. and corporate, divisional operational, or individual and in such financial and Any Annual Bonus plan outcome above proportions as the strategic goals 100% of salary is to be deferred into Committee considers shares for a period of up to three years appropriate although the Committee reserves discretion to alter the current practice Additionally, the ofdeferral whether by altering the Committee will consider portion deferred, the period of deferral the outcomes against orwhether amounts are deferred into pre-set targets following cash or shares their calculation and may moderate these outcomes Cash element paid in one tranche to take account of a range following the year end of factors including the Malus provisions apply to any Committees view of amountsdeferred overall Company performance in the year Long-Term No Executive Director has, to date, Overall annual Executive Directors do None Incentives participated, although this will be Executive Directors not at present participate keptunder review to ensure it limit of 200% of in the plan reflecting, in Glencore remainsappropriate salaryfor LTI grants the case of the CEO, the Performance recognising that this significant alignment Share Plan Malus clauses apply isless than the formal achieved through his incentivises The Company will honour the vesting limit in the plan personal shareholding.
thecreation of ofall awards granted under previous Accordingly, no shareholder policies in accordance with the terms of performance conditions valueover the such awards have been established longer-term forExecutive Directors.
On any future participation, the Committee may set such performance conditions on LTI awards as it considers appropriate whether financial or non-financial and whether corporate, divisional or individual Glencore Annual Report 2016 101 Governance Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2016 Key changes to last Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures approved policy Significant Personal The Committee has set a formal N A N A None Shareholdings shareholding requirement for Executive Directors of 300% of salary Aligns the interests of Usually to be achieved within 5 years of executives and Board appointment shareholders Chairman and The objective in setting the fees paid to Fees are paid monthly N A The fees payable Non-Executive the Chairman and the other Nonincash to NonDirector fees Executive Directors is to be competitive Executive Aggregate fees for with other listed companies of equivalent Directors have Reflects time allNon-Executive size and complexity.
Fee levels are been increased commitment, Directors including periodically reviewed by the Board for as set out on experience, global theChairman are Non-Executives and the Committee for page 105 nature and size of subject to the cap set the Chairman.
In both cases, the the Company inthe Articles of Company does not adopt a quantitative Association.
This is approach to pay positioning and exercises currently set at judgement as to what it considers to be $5,000,000 reasonable in all the circumstances as regards quantum Non-Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director receive a base fee Additional fees are paid for chairing or membership of a Board committee Chairman receives a single inclusive fee Reasonable business related expenses are reimbursed subject to gross up if appropriate Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for any other remuneration or benefits of any nature Reviewed every year with the next review due to take place in December 2017.
Notes to the Policy table 1.
Mr Glasenberg, the only Executive Director, has received no salary increase since the Companys IPO in May 2011.
Differences between the policy on remuneration for Directors from the policy on remuneration of other employees: the only Executive Director has waived any entitlement to participate in the variable pay arrangements.
Arrangements also differ from its pay policies for Group employees as necessary to reflect the appropriate market rate position for the relevant roles.
In particular, Mr Glasenbergs pension benefits are consistent with those provided to other Swiss-based employees and do not include any enhancement to reflect seniority.
For 2016, all remuneration and fees were paid in US dollars except for pension contributions and the provision of benefits which were provided in Swiss francs.
102 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Recruitment Remuneration Policy The Companys Recruitment Remuneration Policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointmentand promotion of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill setstodeliver our strategic aims.
The starting point for the Committee will be to look to the All such awards for external appointments, whether general policy for Executive Directors as set out above and under the annual bonus plan, Performance Share Plan or structure a package in accordance with that policy.
otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on leaving However, the policy was developed having regard to the a previous employer will take account of the nature, specific circumstances of the current Executive Director time-horizons and performance requirements on those and therefore consistent with the UK regulations for a awards.
In particular, the Committees starting point will newly appointed Executive Director the Committee is not be to ensure that any awards being forfeited which constrained by the caps on fixed pay within the policy on remain subject to outstanding performance requirements a recruitment or at any subsequent annual review within other than where these are substantially complete are the life of this policy as approved by shareholders.
bought-out with replacement requirements and any The Committee will not pay more than it considers to be awards with service requirements are bought out with necessary to secure the recruitment having regards to similar terms.
However, exceptionally the Committee may appropriate market rates and evolving best practice relax those obligations where it considers it to be in the interests of shareholders and those factors are, in the view For an internal appointment, any variable pay element of the Committee, equally reflected in some other way, for awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue example through a significant discount to the face value of on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new the awards forfeited.
It will only include guaranteed sums appointment as appropriate where the Committee considers that it is necessary to For external and internal appointments, the Committee secure the recruitment may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as they consider appropriate and or to make a For the avoidance of doubt, where recruitment related contribution towards legal fees in connection with awards are intended to replace existing awards held by a agreeing employment terms candidate in an existing employer, the maximum amounts for incentive pay as stated in the general policies will not The Committee reserves the right to make awards of apply to such awards.
The Committee has not placed a incentive pay that are necessary to secure a candidate, maximum limit on any such awards which it may be which may include either awards to compensate for the necessary to make as it is not considered to be in forfeiture of incentive awards in a previous employer or to shareholders interests to set any expectations for provide appropriate incentives for a new recruit to the prospective candidates regarding such awards.
Details of any such awards will be Any recruitment-related awards which do not replace appropriately disclosed awards with a previous employer will be subject to the Where it is necessary to make a recruitment related pay limits on incentive awards as detailed in the award to an external candidate, the Company will not pay general policy more than is, in the view of the Committee, necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any The elements of any package for a new recruit and the such awards under the terms of the existing incentive pay approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting each structure.
It may, however, be necessary in some cases to element of the package will be consistent with the Executive make such awards on terms that are more bespoke than Directors Remuneration Policy described in this report, as the existing annual and equity-based pay structures in the modified by the above statement of principles Group in order to secure a candidate where appropriate.
A new Non-executive Director would be recruited on the terms explained above in respect of the main policy for such directors.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 103 Governance Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2016 Potential rewards under various scenarios Executive Directors contracts The table below summarises the key features of the service Under the formal policy, consistent with other large FTSE contract for Ivan Glasenberg, the only person who served as companies, the total available variable pay i. e. an Executive Director during 2016. the maximum amount payable in respect of bonus and long-term incentives available to Mr. Glasenberg would be All Directors contracts and letters of appointment will be approximately $5,790,000 being four times base salary.
available for inspection on the terms to be specified in the As Mr Glasenberg has waived entitlement to all variable Notice of 2017 AGM.
elements for 2016, including both bonus and long-term Provision Service contract terms incentives, his base salary and all benefits are set at less than Notice period Twelve months notice by either party 25% of the aggregate remuneration which would potentially Contract date 28 April 2011 as amended on have been available to him had he not waived participation 30October 2013 in these aspects.
These waivers are considered appropriate Expiry date Rolling service contract as the level of his personal shareholding is sufficient to Termination payment No special arrangements or entitlements provide a keen alignment of interest between him and of ontermination.
Any compensation would be limited to base salary only for any shareholders more generally without the need to add unexpired notice period plus any additional aspects to his package and cost to other accruedleave shareholders.
His fixed remuneration set out below is set at Change in control On a change of control of the Company, noprovision for any enhanced payments, a modestly below market level so the waivers do not reflect nor for any liquidated damages any element of an excessive bias to fixed pay in the traditional sense.
Consistent with UK legislation, it has been prepared using the following assumptions.
External appointments In 2016, Mr Glasenbergs base salary was paid in US dollars Any external appointments are noted on pages 81, 82 and 83. and his benefits and pension contributions were paid in The Executive Director assigns to the Group any Swiss francs, as described above and in the single figure compensation received in relation to the appointment.
The appropriateness of these appointments are consideredas part of the annual review of Directors Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is that to be paid in 2017.
Benefits measured as benefits figure in the single figure table.
Pension measured as pension figure in the single figure table.
Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed Ivan Glasenberg $000 $000 $000 $000 1,447 2 60 1,509 On-target and Based on what the Director would receive if Maximum performance was on-target excl.
share price appreciation and dividends : STI: Mr Glasenberg currently waives any right to participate in the annual bonus plan LTI: He does not currently participate in the Performance Share Plan 104 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors have been Termination Policy Summary increased with effect from 1 January 2017.
The annual fees In practice, the facts surrounding any termination do not are paid in accordance with a Non-Executive Directors role always fit neatly into defined categories for good or bad and responsibilities.
The fees payable for 2017 and those leavers.
Therefore, it is appropriate for the Committee to paid for 2016 are as follows: consider the suitable treatment on a termination having US$ 000 2017 2016 regard to all of the relevant facts and circumstances Directors available at that time.
Further, in practice no Executive Chairman 1,150 1,056 Director has, to date, participated in the PSP so the policy Senior Independent Director 200 170 remains to be tested.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination and Non-Executive Director 135 124 any treatment which the Committee may choose to apply Remuneration Committee under the discretions available to it under the terms of the Chairman 45 44 annual bonus and LTI arrangements.
The potential Member 25 23 treatments on termination under these plans are Audit Committee summarised below.
Chairman 60 55 Incentives Good leaver Bad leaver Member 35 31 If a leaver is deemed to be a If a leaver is deemed to be Nomination Committee good leaver: i. e. leaving abad leaver: typically through, serious ill health or voluntary resignation or Chairman 40 36 death or otherwise at the leaving for disciplinary Member 20 19 discretion of the Committee reasons HSEC Committee Annual Bonus Pro-rated bonus No awards made Chairman 125 125 LTIP Will receive a pro-rated All awards will Member 40 19 award if applicable, subject normallylapse to the application of the performance conditions Consideration of employment conditions atthe normal measurement date.
elsewhere in the Group Committee discretion to The Committee has not, since IPO, awarded a salary disapply pro-rating increase to any Executive Director.
It has not, therefore, in The UK Remuneration Regulations do not require the practice had to take into account Group-wide pay and inclusion of a cap or limit in relation to payments for loss of employment conditions in making any decisions but would office.
The Committee will take all relevant factors into do so as and when such issues arise.
account in deciding whether any discretion should be In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the exercised in an individuals favour in these circumstances, Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the and the Committee will aim to ensure that any payments Directors Remuneration Policy.
made are, in its view, appropriate having regard to prevailing best practice guidelines.
The Committee may Consideration of shareholders views also, after taking appropriate legal advice, sanction the payment of additional sums in the settlement of potential Each year, the Committee takes into account the approval legal claims.
levels of remuneration related matters at our Annual General Meeting in determining that the current Directors Non-Executive Directors' Letters of Remuneration Policy remains appropriate for the Company.
appointmentand re-election The Committee also seeks to have a productive dialogue All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects with the Company for an initial period of three years from of corporate governance generally and any changes to the their date of appointment, subject to reappointment at each Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
The Company may terminate each appointment by immediate notice and there are no special arrangements or entitlements on termination except that the Chairman is entitled to three months notice.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 105 Governance Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2016 Part B Implementation Report Remuneration Committee meetings The Committee met two times during the year and Implementation Report UnauditedInformation considered, amongst other matters, the remuneration policy applicable to the Executive Director, senior management Remuneration Committee remuneration policy, including its level and structure, the form and structure of grants to employees under the Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee Companys Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share We believe that the members of the Committee provide a Plan, and the content and approval of the useful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to remuneration Report.
provide the critical analysis required in carrying out the The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend Committees function.
John Mack, the Chairman of the some or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee Committee, has had a long career in investment bank meetings.
They do not participate in any decisions management and therefore provides considerable concerning their own remuneration.
experience of remuneration analysis and implementation.
William Macaulay has had a long tenure in private equity Advisers to the Remuneration Committee which has involved exposure to remuneration issues many times and in a variety of situations while Leonhard Fischer The Committee appointed and received independent remuneration advice during the year from its external is a career banker who similarly has had considerable exposure to issues of pay and incentives.
All members of the adviser, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT.
FIT is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the UK Remuneration Committee are considered to be independent.
Further details concerning independence of the Nonprofessional body for these consultants and adheres to its code of conduct.
The Committee was satisfied that the Executive Directors are contained on page 85 of the Annual Report.
advice provided by FIT was objective and independent.
FITs fees for this advice in respect of 2016 were $10,410 2015: Role of the Remuneration Committee $4,094.
FITs fees were charged on the basis of the firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role.
FIT provided no other services to the Group in the year.
They are available on the Companys website at: www.
com who-we-are corporate-governance The Committee also receives advice from John Burton, the board-committees Company Secretary.
Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to: Relative importance of remuneration spend set the Companys executive remuneration policy and The table below illustrates the change in total remuneration, review its ongoing relevance and appropriateness : dividends paid and net profit from 2015 to 2016. establish the remuneration packages for the Executive 2016 2015 Director including the scope of pension benefits: US$m US$m Dividends and buy-backs 2,898 determine the remuneration package for the Chairman, in Net income loss attributable to consultation with the Chief Executive: equity holders 1,379 4,964 have responsibility for overseeing schemes of Total remuneration 4,245 5,287 performance related remuneration including share incentive plans for, and determine awards for, the The figures presented have been calculated on the Executive Director as appropriate : following bases: ensure that the contractual terms on termination for the Dividends and buy-backs dividends paid during the Executive Director are fair and not excessive: and financial year plus the cost of shares bought back during monitor senior management remuneration.
The Committee considers corporate performance on HSEC Net income loss attributable to equity holders and governance issues when setting remuneration for the ourreported net income in respect of the financial year.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the The Committee believes it is the most direct reflection incentive structure for the Groups senior management does ofour financial performance.
not raise HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently Total remuneration represents total personnel costs as motivating irresponsible behaviour.
disclosed in note 21 to the financial statements which includes salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments.
106 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Performance Performance graph and table 100 This graph shows the value to 31 December 2016, on a total shareholder return TSR basis, of 100 invested in 80 Glencore plc on 24 May 2011 IPO date compared with the 60 value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Mining Index.
The FTSE 350 Mining Index is considered to be an 40 appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is an equity 20 index consisting of companies listed in London in the same 0 sector as Glencore.
18 May 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The UK reporting regulations also require that a TSR performance graph is supported by a table summarising FTSE 350 Mining Index aspects of CEO remuneration, as shown below for the same Glencore period as the TSR performance graph: Single figure of Annual variable element Long-term incentive 1 total remuneration award rates against vesting rates against 2 2 US$000 maximum opportunity maximum opportunity 2016 Ivan Glasenberg 1,509 2015 Ivan Glasenberg 1,510 2014 Ivan Glasenberg 1,513 2013 Ivan Glasenberg 1,509 2012 Ivan Glasenberg 1,533 2011 Ivan Glasenberg 1,483 1 The value of benefits and pension provision in the single figure vary as a result of the application of exchange rates although in the relevant local currency these parts of Mr Glasenbergs remuneration have not altered since May 2011.
In this table the figures are reported in US dollars, the currency in which Mr Glasenberg received his salary in 2016.
The salary was payable in pounds sterling prior to 2014.
Therefore those figures have been translated into US dollars at the exchange rates used for the preparation of the financial statements in those years.
Mr Glasenbergs pension and other benefits are charged to the Group in Swiss francs and these amounts are translated into US dollar on the same basis.
2 The CEO has requested not to be considered for these potential awards.
Percentage change in pay of Chief Executive Officer and comparative ratios The UK Remuneration Regulations provide for disclosure of percentage changes of the CEOs remuneration against the average percentage change for employees generally or an appropriate group of employees.
In addition, the UK Investment Associations 2016 Remuneration Principles recommend disclosure as to how the out-turn for a Companys CEO compares with that of a its median employee and b its Executive Committee.
Given that the CEO has, since May 2011, waived any entitlement to any increase in salary and given that his only other unwaived benefits are those provided to all employees atthe Companys head office in Baar no such comparisons or ratios have been made.
Most recent shareholder voting outcomes The votes cast 1 to approve the Directors remuneration report, for the year ended 31 December 2015, at the 2016 AGM held on 19 May 2016 and 2 to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM on 20 May 2014, were: Votes For Votes Against Votes Abstentions as a total of votes cast Directors Remuneration Report 99.14% 0.86% 0.00% 9,213,244,369 80,083,116 9,725,264 Directors Remuneration Policy 97.93% 2.07% 2.60% 8,539,263,284 180,199,515 226,561,025 While no changes will be made to the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2017 other than as set out on page 105, as the Company reaches the end of the three-year policy period approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, a resolution will be tabled to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee continues to seek a productive and ongoing dialogue with investors on the Directors Remuneration Policy, remuneration aspects of corporate governance, any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements and developments as to executive remuneration issues in general.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 107 Governance Directors remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2016 Implementation of policy in 2017 No change to any aspect of Directors remuneration is envisaged for 2017 except for the increase in the fees for Non-Executive Directors set out on page 105.
Implementation Report Audited Information Single Figure Table Annual Long-term Salary Benefits Bonus incentives Pension Total US$000 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Ivan Glasenberg 1,447 1,447 2 2 60 61 1,509 1,510 The notes to the performance table above also apply in relation to the compilation of this table.
As no bonuses or long-term incentives have been granted to Mr Glasenberg, there are no relevant performance measures to be disclosed although see the first page of this report as to the alignment of his position with that of other shareholders.
Non-Executive fees The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors for 2016 were as follows: Total 2016 Total 2015 Name US$000 US$000 Non-Executive Chairman Anthony Hayward 1,056 1,056 Non-Executive Directors Leonhard Fischer 221 221 William Macaulay 178 178 Peter Coates 249 249 Peter Grauer 237 237 John Mack 187 187 Patrice Merrin 143 143 The aggregate emoluments of all Directors for 2016 including pension contributions were $3,780,000 2015: $3,781,000.
The only Director participant in a pension plan was Mr Glasenberg.
Directors interests The Directors interests in shares are set out in the Directors report which is set out after this report.
Mr Glasenbergs holding is considerably in excess of the formal share ownership guideline for Executive Directors of 300% of salary.
Approval This report in its entirety has been approved by the Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John Mack Remuneration Committee Chairman 1 March 2017 108 Glencore Annual Report 2016
