Directors remuneration report Appointment and remuneration of Group Chief Financial Officer Patrick Butcher was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 14 March 2016.
Upon his appointment, the committee reviewed his remuneration, taking into account all relevant factors including his experience, the pay level of his predecessor and the principles of our remuneration policy.
No compensation was paid for incentives lost from his previous employer.
The committee determined that the Group Chief Financial Officer should be paid an annual base salary of 370,000 per annum, which was below that of his predecessor.
He was not eligible to receive a salary increase from 1 April 2016, his next salary review being on 1 April 2017.
The committee also determined that the Group Chief Financial Officer would not be eligible to receive an LTIP award but would be eligible to receive an annual performance-related bonus for the year ended 2 July 2016 and that this would be based solely on the achievement of Group operating profit and cashflow targets.
This would be pro-rated to reflect his period of service, with any award being paid fully in deferred shares to immediately Annual Statement by the align his interests with those of our shareholders.
Full details of the performance against targets can be found on pages 95 and 96.
Remuneration Committee Chair Departure of former Group Finance Director Dear Shareholder The former Group Finance Director, Keith Down resigned on 6 December 2015 and continued to receive salary and benefits until that date.
In On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the directors remuneration accordance with our remuneration policy, he forfeited any entitlement to an report for the year ended 2 July 2016.
This report sets out our policy, as annual performance-related bonus for the year ended 2 July 2016. approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, how this policy was Additionally, Keiths LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards granted in implemented during 2015 16 and how we will apply the policy for the 2013 and 2014 lapsed in full on 6 December 2015. forthcoming year 2016 17.
Single remuneration figure Performance and reward Group Chief Executive The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year At the request of the Group Chief Executive, no annual increase was ended 2 July 2016 is shown below: awarded to his base salary from 1 April 2016.
2016 2015 During the year under review, the Group Chief Executive informed the 000 000 committee that he did not wish to be considered for his 2015 16 annual performance-related bonus in acknowledgement of the operational issues Group Chief Executive David Brown 1,311 2,134 and difficulties that continue to be experienced in GTR, and the direct and Group Chief Financial Officer Patrick Butcher 269 negative impact this is having on customers.
The committee accepted that no annual performance-related bonus would be paid to the Group Chief Former Group Finance Director Keith Down 191 1,246 Executive for the year ending 2 July 2016.
Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the 2012 13 LTIP award which The committee considered the extent to which the Long Term Incentive vested in November 2015.
See page 95 for further information.
Plan LTIP award granted to the Group Chief Executive in October 2013 Full details of the remuneration earned by the Group Chief Executive, the should vest.
This award was based on the achievement of specific long term Group Chief Financial Officer and the former Group Finance Director can value creation targets set three years ago which included stretching total be found in this report.
shareholder return, earnings per share and operating profit targets for each of the bus and rail divisions.
This award is paid in shares to further align the interests of the Group Chief Executive with those of our shareholders.
Further details of the performance achieved are provided on page 96.
84 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Remuneration linked to strategy Performance in 2015 16 Our remuneration policy has been structured to support the financial The Group has achieved another year of good financial performance objectives and strategic priorities of the Group in a manner which is aligned and has continued to deliver sustainable returns and growth for its with shareholders interests.
It encourages achievement of our corporate shareholders.
Key highlights of the year included: goals through i an annual performance-related bonus linked to achieving profitable growth and specific strategic targets: and ii long term incentives Successful win of two German rail services contracts expected to that only reward for absolute shareholder value creation and delivery of generate combined revenues of around 1.6bn over the life of long term earnings growth.
the contracts A large proportion of the executive directors remuneration is payable in Successful win of a 25 route five-year bus contract in Singapore shares.
Half of the total annual performance related bonus is awarded as expected to generate total revenues of around SGD$500m over deferred shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject to five years recovery and withholding provisions.
Awards under the LTIP are also made Maintained sector leading customer satisfaction in regional bus in shares, further aligning the interest of our executive directors with those operations of our shareholders.
Awards granted under the LTIP are now also subject to Record year of operating profits from our regional bus division and an additional two-year holding period following the vesting of awards.
achievement of 100m profit target on an adjusted basis, through sector leading margins Future policy Southeastern delivered a strong trading performance and continued The Groups remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at last to operate at maximum profit share years AGM in October 2015 and the current intention is that it will apply London Midland continued its trend of improvement, with strong until the 2018 AGM.
As such, we will not be asking shareholders to vote on customer satisfaction scores, and is now operating under the new the policy at the 2016 AGM.
direct award contract which was secured during the year Shortlisted for the new West Midlands franchise beginning Implementation of remuneration policy 2016 17 October 2017 The committee is not proposing any changes to remuneration policy for the financial year 2016 17.
However, the committee does have the discretion to The integration last year of Southern and Gatwick Express completes the formation of GTR and the largest franchise ever let vary the weighting of and choice of LTIP metrics prior to each award.
In accordance with best practice, the committee will be consulting with the by the government, with about 330 million passenger journeys made per year and employing around 6,900 people Groups major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding proposed changes to the LTIPs threshold and maxima EPS metrics Introduction of new rolling stock to improve services to customers in response to the revised outlook for GTR and analysts repositioning as longer, more spacious trains are introduced across the their forecasts.
GTR franchise The outcome of this consultation will be confirmed to the Groups major The interim dividend was increased by 6.5%.
The final dividend shareholders and shareholder representative bodies before the 2016 AGM, proposed has also been increased by 6.5% in addition to being disclosed in next years annual report.
Net cash of 323.0m, adjusted net debt of 239.3m and an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.36x below the Groups target level The committee has also agreed that the Group Chief Executives shareholding requirement will increase from 150% to 200% of base salary in Despite good financial performance across the Group during the year, accordance with best practice.
While it will not be incorporated into the one of our greatest challenges has been with our train operating current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it is effective company GTR and the operational issues and constraints associated immediately.
with the major Thameslink infrastructure programme.
As previously reported, additional resources being invested in GTR to support I was very pleased that, at last years AGM, 97.77% and 99.23% of the votes service delivery in the current challenging operational and industrial cast supported the resolutions to approve our remuneration policy and the relations environments have depressed margins for the year ended annual report on remuneration respectively.
This indicates support for the 2 July 2016.
The issues we continue to experience mean that we have committees focus on implementing the key principles of our executive not provided the levels of reliability and services our passengers expect, remuneration approach.
which has caused inconvenience and hardship for our passengers.
We We look to shareholders to approve the report at the forthcoming AGM.
now no longer expect to recover the profit shortfalls and margins over the life of the contract will be lower than originally forecast.
Katherine Innes Ker Remuneration Committee Chair 8 September 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 85 Directors remuneration report at a glance Remuneration committee Highlights progress made Priorities objectives set for 2015 16 against 2015 16 objectives for 2016 17 Ensure that the Groups remuneration policy for Approved leaving terms for the former Group Set targets and review outcomes for the departure of executive directors is applied Finance Director and recruitment terms for performance-related remuneration, taking for the departing Group Finance Director the new Group Chief Financial Officer in into account strategic objectives, risk policies accordance with policy and systems Ensure that the Groups recruitment remuneration policy is taken into account when Set targets and reviewed outcomes for Continue to review remuneration policy in appointing the new Group Chief Financial Officer performance-related remuneration, taking the context of best practice and emerging into account strategic objectives, risk policies developments Set targets and review outcomes for and systems performance-related remuneration Ensure regular dialogue with major shareholders Assessed performance against targets for the and shareholder advisory bodies and take into Continue to remain abreast of best practice annual performance-related bonus 2015 16 and account their views when formulating policy and and market developments in remuneration accepted the Group Chief Executives request making decisions and reporting not to be considered for an annual performanceEnsure compliance with all regulatory Monitor the ongoing balance between long term related bonus 2015 16 or April 2016 annual requirements, including overseeing compliance and short term incentives to ensure that they salary increase with the Equal Pay Bill and gender pay remain appropriately aligned to the Groups Reviewed remuneration policy in the context of gap reporting strategic objectives best practice and remained abreast of emerging Review the overall remuneration policy for Provide ongoing training and support for developments such as the work of the senior management and the pay and committee members Investment Associations Executive Remuneration employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Working Group Review performance of the committee and its Reviewed the overall remuneration policy for external advisors senior management and the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Reviewed performance of the committee and its external advisors More information on pages 94-103 Committee members and secretary Katherine Innes Ker Committee Chair Andrew Allner Chairman Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary About this report Attendance This report sets out details of the remuneration policy for our executive and non-executive directors, describes the implementation of the approved remuneration policy and sets out the remuneration received by the directors for the year ended Andrew Allner 2 July 2016.
No changes have been made other than to reflect changes to salary levels and the fact that the policy was formally approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Schedule Katherine Innes Ker 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group also follows the requirements of the UK Corporate Nick Horler Governance Code published in September 2014 the 2014 Code.
For completeness and transparency, this part of the directors remuneration report Adrian Ewer includes the remuneration policy in the same form as it was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM set out on pages 88 to 93 and intended to operate until the 2018 AGM unless any significant changes to the policy are proposed that require shareholder approval prior to this date.
The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair set out on pages 84 and 85 and the annual report on remuneration set out on pages 94 to 103 will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
86 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information At a glance application of the policy in the year ahead David Brown Patrick Butcher Policy element Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Base salary from 1 April 2016 541,800 370,000 % increase from prior year 0% n a Pension Does not receive any form of pension provision Receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of base salary Performance-related bonus Up to 150% of base salary Performance-related bonus metrics Adjusted Group operating profit 65% Group cashflow 10% Strategic KPIs 25% Payment for threshold performance 0% 0% Deferred share bonus plan 50% of the performance-related bonus is deferred for three years in Go-Ahead shares LTIP 150% of base salary 100% of base salary LTIP metrics Compound annual growth in adjusted EPS 40% Relative TSR 40% Customer satisfaction ratings 20% Payment for threshold performance For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% Malus and clawback The performance-related bonus and LTIP are both subject to recovery clawback and withholding malus provisions for three years following the award.
Malus applies to the period prior to vesting for both the performance-related bonus and LTIP.
Clawback applies to the cash and deferred shares awarded under the performance-related bonus for a period of three years from the date the cash payment is made and the date the share award is granted, and to the LTIP for three years following the date on which an award vests.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax and NICs due on receipt of the shares for two further years.
Dividends on vested awards Participants are eligible for dividend equivalents on awards granted under the deferred share bonus plan or LTIP Shareholding requirement 150% of base salary 100% of base salary The Group Chief Executives shareholding requirement will increase from 150% to 200% in accordance with best practice.
While it will not be incorporated into the current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it is immediately effective.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 87 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report Policy overview The Groups remuneration policy was approved at the 2015 AGM and is Remuneration should be judged relative to other companies but without effective until the 2018 AGM.
The key principles of the policy are as follows: the corresponding improvement in corporate and individual performance, should avoid paying more than necessary Remuneration should be designed to promote the long term success Due regard should be given to pay and employment conditions of the Group and the creation of shareholder value elsewhere in the Group The policy should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related, cash and share-based and immediate and The policy table that follows provides detail on each key element of deferred remuneration remuneration, including the maximum potential value of each element, a brief summary of how it works and details of any performance metrics.
Performance related elements of remuneration should be relevant, transparent, stretching and rigorously applied Remuneration incentives should be compatible with risk policies and systems Remuneration policy table for executive directors Element & maximum Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual salary increases for n a Base salary Salary is the core Paid monthly in cash reward for the role executive directors will not In determining base salaries, the normally exceed the and enables the committee considers: Group to recruit and average increase awarded Pay levels at companies of a to other UK based retain individuals of similar size and complexity the calibre required to employees in the FTSE 250 deliver its strategic However, larger increases External market conditions objectives and lead its may be awarded in certain management team, Pay and conditions circumstances including but without paying more elsewhere in the Group not limited to: than is necessary Individual performance, Increase in scope of skills, experience in post Base salary also responsibilities of and potential reflects the individuals the role skills, expertise, Salaries are normally reviewed To apply salary experience and role annually with changes taking progression for a newly within the Group effect from 1 April each year appointed director Where a directors The committee may also salary has fallen review salaries on an ad hoc significantly below basis if an individual is market position promoted and or there is an increase in their responsibilities PerformanceFocuses on the key Annual, non-pensionable Maximum of 150% of salary Performance metrics will related bonus priorities for the payments made after the AGM normally include Group profit, coming year cash and individual strategic goals Half of any bonus is paid in with profitability accounting for at Deferral of half of cash following the AGM and least half of the opportunity bonus into Group half is paid in shares deferred shares aligns executive for a period of three years A quality of earnings review and directors interests health and safety target Based on the achievement of with those thresholds also apply to the specific financial and non of shareholders full bonus financial objectives Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following the award 88 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Element & maximum Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Long term Aligned to the Annual grant of performance Maximum of 150% of salary Performance measured over incentive plan strategic objectives of shares that vest three for Group Chief Executive three financial years LTIP the Group to deliver years after grant subject to the and 100% of salary for Performance metrics will include long term returns satisfaction of other executive directors compound annual growth in to shareholders performance conditions Exceptional adjusted EPS and relative TSR Awards granted from 2015 circumstances maximum with each accounting for at least must be retained other than e. g. on recruitment of 25% of the award to pay tax or NICs due on 200% of salary For the 2015 awards adjusted receipt of the shares for two EPS would have a 40% weighting, further years relative TSR would have a 40% Subject to recovery and weighting and customer withholding provisions for three satisfaction ratings in our bus and years following vesting rail divisions will each have a 10% weighting For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may vest at threshold performance The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting of and choice of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics Pension Provides a cash Monthly, non pensionable A cash allowance of up to n a allowance alternative to pension payment, paid in cash 15% of salary may be 1 contributions in line provided with market practice Other Ensures package is The main benefits include Benefits are intended to be n a benefits competitive with family private healthcare, death market competitive but are market practice and in service and life assurance not subject to a maximum employees have a cover 4x base salary, free as the cost of providing the minimum level of travel on the Groups services insured benefits is set by insured benefits and professional membership third party providers and subscriptions can vary from year to year All employee Executive directors are Executive directors may Participation levels operate n a share plans eligible to participate participate in these plans in line in accordance with HMRC in HMRC approved all with HMRC guidelines limits as amended from employee schemes currently prevailing where time to time which encourage relevant, on the same basis as share ownership other eligible employees Share To align the financial Executive directors are 150% of salary holding for n a 2 ownership interests of the required to retain 50% of the the Group Chief Executive executive directors post tax gain on vested LTIP and 100% of salary holding with those of and deferred share awards until for other executive shareholders such time as the Group Chief directors Executive has achieved a holding of 150% of salary and other executive directors have achieved 100% of salary 1.
The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a cash allowance of 13% of salary.
The Group Chief Executives share ownership guidelines will increase from 150% to 200% in accordance with best practice.
com 89 Directors remuneration report continued If an event occurs which results in the annual performance-related bonus or Considerations when determining remuneration policy LTIP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer The remuneration committee considers shareholder feedback received and appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, the committee will guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally when have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter reviewing remuneration policy, in addition to best practice and the weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially 2014 Code.
A substantial proportion of the executive directors pay is  share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised at related, with half of the annual bonus also being subject to deferral into the the date of this report, as detailed on pages 98 and 99, remain eligible for Groups shares.
A broad range of financial and non-financial targets are vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
included in our incentive structure and recovery and withholding provisions apply to both the annual performance-related bonus and LTIP from 2015 16.
Consistency with remuneration for the wider Group In addition, awards granted under the new LTIP will be subject to an additional two year holding period following the vesting of awards.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee ensures high-calibre talent and that reward should support the delivery of business that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy.
The committee reviews the remuneration for those employees The executive directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social immediately below the executive directors to ensure that this incentivises and governance matters seriously and to consider the long term implications the delivery of both strategy and business objectives.
Accordingly, in line with the Investment Association Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure, the committee has linked a Through our devolved structure, local management are then empowered to proportion of the annual bonus performance-related to the achievement of create tailored remuneration packages on an individual business-by-business safety and good governance objectives.
As a result, the components and levels of remuneration for different employees will differ from the policy for executive directors as set out In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the above.
Employees may receive bonus, pension and share awards which vary remuneration packages offered to employees across the Group.
As a point according to the local business and market practice.
The maximum provision of principle, salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration and incentive opportunity available are determined by the seniority and are benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain competitive in the responsibility of the role.
markets in which we operate.
Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors only As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits across the while participation in the deferred share bonus plan is limited to executive businesses which reflect individual responsibility, market and geographical directors and senior management.
When considering annual salary increases, the committee reviews the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally, as it It is an important part of Go-Aheads values that all colleagues, not just does for any other changes to remuneration policy being considered.
management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Group.
All employees, with at least six months continuous service, therefore have The Group did not formally consult with employees when drawing up the the opportunity to participate in our Share Incentive Plan and Save As You directors remuneration policy.
However, the Group considers any informal Earn schemes.
feedback received through employee staff surveys or other channels.
Committee discretions The committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the committee will apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis Determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment Determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table on pages 88 and 89 Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and special dividends Determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the annual performance-related bonus and LTIP from year to year 90 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance measure selection With the exception of base salary, benefits, pension allowance and participation in all employee share plans, all other elements of the remuneration packages of the executive directors are linked to performance.
In choosing the performance metrics and targets we have sought to provide a strong and demonstrable link between management incentives and the Groups strategic objectives.
We have also set a performance based framework for remuneration which is consistent with the Groups scale and unique structure.
This enables the executive directors and senior managers to share in the long term success of the Group without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging short termism or excessive risk taking.
It also aligns their interests with those of our shareholders.
The choice of performance measures for the annual performance-related bonus is based on a mixture of financial, non financial, personal and strategic targets, with a clear alignment to the Groups short and long term strategic objectives.
A significant proportion of executive directors potential remuneration is performance-related.
This comprises annual bonuses under the performancerelated bonus and long term incentives under the LTIP.
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the executive directors split between fixed, target and maximum remuneration scenarios.
The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
Total remuneration by performance scenario for 2016 17 financial year 000 Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed 545 Fixed 419 Target 1,155 Target 789 Max 2,171 Max 1,344 The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below: Fixed remuneration: base salary as at 1 April 2016, benefits as received in 2015 16 and, for the Group Chief Financial Officer only, the value of his pension allowance.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of the maximum annual performance-related bonus award 75% of base salary plus threshold vesting under the LTIP awards 37.5% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 25% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus the maximum annual performance-related bonus award 150% of base salary plus full vesting of LTIP awards 150% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is necessary to Recruitment remuneration compensate executive directors for incentives lost from their previous On appointing a new executive director, the committee would seek to align employers.
The level and timing of such compensation will normally seek to the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the Groups reflect or take account of the term and performance conditions of the remuneration policy as set out on pages 88 and 89.
It would aim not to pay payments or awards forgone on a like for like basis.
more than necessary to secure the right candidate and the package would take into account the experience and calibre of the individual concerned.
Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards or options The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in over Group shares but cash and or time vested payments may be made accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at where the committee believes these would offer better value for money for the time of appointment.
Existing arrangements will be used where possible, however, the committee also reserves the ability to make use of the flexibility Where a newly appointed executive director is required to relocate, the provided under the Listing Rules without prior shareholder approval.
The Group may pay the costs of relocation if appropriate and may provide tax committee is sensitive to investor concerns about such arrangements and equalisation and assistance with reasonable legal fees.
will endeavour to take cost effective approaches.
Any executive director promoted internally may remain eligible for During the year, the recruitment remuneration policy was followed for the payments under incentive plans joined and or contractual arrangements appointment of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer.
There were no entered into before joining the Board.
However the committee will have relocation costs or compensation paid for incentives lost from his regard to best practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements.
com 91 Directors remuneration report continued Service agreements of executive directors Departure of executive directors The Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer entered Executive directors service agreements contain a provision, exercisable at into a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 April 2011 the discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early and 14 March 2016 respectively.
The term of each service agreement is termination of the agreement.
Such payments are limited to base salary plus undefined and is terminable by either the Group on one years notice or by pension allowance and other benefits such as family private healthcare and the executive director on six months notice.
The directors service life assurance cover, but would not automatically include entitlement to agreements are available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
The Group can also pay legal fees and outplacement services.
There are no External appointments provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early retirement In accordance with their service agreements, the executive directors are able terms.
Other than the notice periods specified above, the executive to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain any fees directors are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event paid for such services, provided that approval is given by the Board.
The of early termination of a service agreement.
The committee believes that the Group Chief Executive is a non-executive director of ATOC Limited and Rail agreements provide appropriate protection of the interests of shareholders Delivery Group Limited.
He does not receive any fees in relation to when negotiating a termination, at which time the committee would take these roles.
The Group Chief Financial Officer does not have any into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his her loss when external appointments.
determining the amount of any compensation.
The former Group Finance Director, Keith Down, is a non-executive director During the year, this policy was applied for the departure of the former of Topps Tiles plc and received fees of 18,840 for the period from 28 June Group Finance Director.
Salary, pension allowance and other benefits only 2015 to 6 December 2015 when he resigned from the Board were paid, with no entitlement to bonus or share awards for the year ended 2014: 17,409.
Deferred bonus shares and LTIPs that were unvested on cessation of employment also lapsed.
Loss of office payments The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
However, the table below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normally apply: Other leavers Reason for termination Retirement, redundancy: disability: death or change of ownership e. g. resignation misconduct Salary and contractual benefits Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of any Paid to date of termination, contractual benefits for the notice period including any accrued or including pay for any accrued untaken holiday but untaken holiday Performance-related Bonus awarded subject to satisfaction of performance targets for the No award for year of bonus cash relevant financial year, pro-rated accordingly for the period of employment termination to the date of cessation of employment Performance-related bonus Awards vest on the date of cessation of employment Awards lapse in full on cessation deferred shares of employment Unvested LTIP awards Awards normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the remuneration Awards lapse in full on cessation committee determines the award should vest on the date of cessation of employment of employment The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment although the committee has discretion to waive pro-rating where it believes it would be appropriate to do so 92 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Policy table for Chairman and non-executive directors The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the non-executive directors is set out in the table below.
Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive The remuneration of the non-executive directors directors is a fixed annual fee commensurate with takes the form solely of fees, which are set annually the time each director is expected to spend on the by the Board Groups affairs and with the responsibility assumed as The level of fees set is subject to the current limits as director of a listed company set out in the Groups articles of association currently aggregate fees of 500,000 for all Fees are set at a level to attract and retain individuals with appropriate expertise to complement the non-executive directors Groups strategy Fees are reviewed on 1 April each year with reference to comparable listed companies in the FTSE 250 Additional fees Additional fees may be paid to non-executive Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive payable directors who are chair of a Board committee and performance-related remuneration or pension for duties or who occupy the role of senior independent entitlements or to participate in share director to reflect the additional responsibility and option schemes time commitment required Non-executive directors may also be provided with limited travel, hospitality and accommodation expenses The Chairman and non-executive directors do not receive benefits in kind nor do they participate in the Groups short and long term incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme.
Letters of appointment for Chairman and non-executive directors Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered office during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below: Notice period Notice period Director Date of service agreement from the Group from the director Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months Nick Horler November 2011 6 months 6 months Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months Retirement and re-election of directors In accordance with the Groups articles of association and the provisions of the 2014 Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly, all directors will be submitting themselves for re-election with the exception of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief Financial Officer, who will offer himself for election for the first time.
com 93 Directors remuneration report continued Recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for Annual report on remuneration senior management within the Group The remuneration committee presents the annual report on remuneration Determine the fees of the Chairman which, together with the annual statement from the Remuneration The members of the committee have no personal interests in the matters Committee Chair, will be put to shareholders as an advisory vote at the to be decided by the committee other than as shareholders, and have no AGM to be held on 3 November 2016. conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships.
Committee members did not attend meetings where matters associated with their own Remuneration committee report remuneration were considered.
All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
During the year, the committees recommendations were all accepted The committee met seven times during the year.
Four of these meetings unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
were scheduled, with three additional meetings to discuss the remuneration of the new Group Chief Financial Officer and remuneration policy more Terms of reference generally.
Attendance at the committee meetings is set out on page 59.
The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
They are available on our corporate website at www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Role of the committee The committees principal responsibilities are to: External advisors to the committee Develop the remuneration policy for the executive directors, including the New Bridge Street NBS a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of balance between fixed and performance-related, cash and share-based, Aon plc act as independent remuneration advisors to the committee.
The immediate and deferred remuneration advisor was selected through a thorough process led by the Remuneration Review the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups Committee Chair and was appointed by the committee.
Neither remuneration policy Aon Hewitt Limited nor the wider Aon plc provided any other services to the Group during the year and therefore the committee was satisfied that it Regularly review the design and targets for performance-related pay provided objective and independent advice.
NBS is a member of the arrangements and approve the total annual payments and awards Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
Ensure adherence to the policy set for executive directors service The fees payable to NBS for advice throughout the year were 38,816 agreements, including recruitment and compensation payment policies 2015: 20,778.
Statement of voting at general meeting At last years AGM 22 October 2015 the directors remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: Votes for and discretionary Votes against Total votes Withheld Remuneration report 23,971,292 185,563 24,156,855 3,410,784 99.23% 0.77% 100% Remuneration policy 21,842,550 497,285 22,339,835 5,227,804 97.77% 2.23% 100% Implementation of remuneration policy for 2015 16 Executive directors annual base salary audited Base salary levels for executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2017 when they will be reviewed again: From From % Executive directors 1 April 2016 1 April 2015 Increase 1 Group Chief Executive, David Brown 541,800 541,800 0 2 Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher 370,000 n a n a 1.
David Brown has, at his own request, not received an increase this year.
Patrick Butcher was appointed on 14 March 2016.
His first review following his appointment will be April 2017.
94 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Executive directors remuneration audited The below table summarises all remuneration that was earned by each executive director during the year and computes a single total remuneration figure for the year.
The value of the performance-related bonus reflects what was earned in respect of the year but will be paid out shortly after the AGM in November 2016.
Similarly the value of the LTIP reflects the award granted in 2013 which will vest in November 2016 as a result of the performance through the three year period ended at the completion of our financial year on 2 July 2016.
The LTIP value in the below table is based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2015 16 of 24.54.
This value has been estimated as the award will not actually vest until shortly after the 2016 AGM.
The closing share price on 2 July 2016 was 19.78 which would result in a lower LTIP value than that stated in the table below.
The remuneration committee reviews all incentive awards prior to payment and uses judgement to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
If circumstances warrant it, the committee may adjust the final payment or vesting downwards.
The remuneration for the Group Chief Executive reflects his request not to be considered for the 2015 16 annual performance-related bonus award.
Short term incentives Performance-related 2 bonuses Deferred Long term Single total Taxable share incentives Pension Other remuneration 1 2 2 3 4 5 Salary benefits Cash bonus bonus LTIP allowance remuneration figure 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Group Chief Executive, David Brown 2016 542 3 744 22 1,311 2015 535 3 279 279 1,038 2,134 Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher 2016 112 1 141 15 269 2015 Former executive director Former Group Finance Director, Keith Down 2016 155 1 21 14 191 2015 351 2 183 664 46 1,246 Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the 2012 13 LTIP award which vested in November 2015.
For the Group Chief Executive and the former Group Finance Director this was 942,053 2015 estimation: 970,823 and 602,911 2015 estimation: 621,324 respectively based on the share price as at 5 November 2015 of 25.016.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment was as disclosed last year being 96,216 for the Group Chief Executive and 61,578 for the former Group Finance Director.
Taxable benefits The taxable benefit for the executive directors comprises family healthcare membership.
Cash bonus and deferred share bonus performance-related bonus Group Chief Financial Officer only The table below illustrates the components of the annual performance-related bonus award at maximum and actual payouts for business objectives set for the Group Chief Financial Officer from 14 March 2016, the date he joined the Board: Weighting Actual payout Actual payout percentage of percentage of percentage of Metric Performance measure maximum Achieved maximum salary Adjusted Group operating profit AGOP Actual 2015 16 AGOP 87% 96.1% 83.6% 125.4% Group cashflow Net debt after adding 13% 0.0% 0% 0% back restricted cash Total 100% 96.1% 83.6% 125.4% The Group Chief Financial Officer was awarded an overall bonus of 125.4% of pro-rata salary based on AGOP and cashflow targets only.
All of this bonus is payable in deferred shares to be held for a period of three years to immediately align his interests with those of shareholders and is subject to clawback provisions.
The former Group Finance Director did not receive any annual performance-related bonus on account of his cessation of employment on 6 December 2015.
com 95 Directors remuneration report continued Adjusted Group operating profit AGOP The AGOP target for the 2015 16 financial year was as shown below, with payout on a sliding scale from the 2014 15 AGOP: Measure Target Payout percentage of maximum AGOP 2015 16 AGOP of 137.7m in 2014 15 0% AGOP budget of 158.2m in 2015 16 87% Actual AGOP for the year ended 2 July 2016 was 157.4m, resulting in a pro-rated payout of 83.6% of the maximum 87% 125.4% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Cashflow For Group cashflow defined as net debt after adding back restricted cash, the target for the 2015 16 financial year was 166.0m.
Actual Group cashflow was 239.3m 2015: 244.7m resulting in no payout for this element of bonus.
Health and safety target threshold The annual performance-related bonus includes an underpin that enables the committee to use its discretion to scale back the bonus earned should there be a catastrophic event or a deterioration in health and safety performance.
The committee concluded that payment of the annual performance-related bonus was appropriate in light of the Groups health and safety performance in the year.
Recovery and holding provisions The annual performance-related bonus is subject to recovery and holding provisions for three years following vesting.
Vesting of 2013 14 LTIP award Group Chief Executive only The table below summarises the performance conditions for the Group Chief Executives 2013 14 LTIP award and the actual performance achieved.
This award was subject to performance conditions measured over three financial years ending with the 2015 16 financial period.
As shown below, the adjusted EPS growth target 25% weighting and relative TSR target 25% weighting were fully achieved.
For the bus division, the profit target 25% weighting, which was to continue to organically grow bus division profits to 100m by 2015 16, was also fully achieved.
For the rail division, 15% of the profit target 25% weighting was achieved on the basis of the performance on London Midland and Southeastern having been excellent, with both franchises being extended and generating the maximum possible profit under their direct awards.
Full payout of this element was not achieved as the GTR margins over the life of the contract will be lower than originally forecast.
Payout Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Bus division profit Rail division profit % of each element growth in adjusted EPS excluding certain sectors in 2015 16 in 2015 16 Weighting % of total award 25% 25% 25% 25% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold Between Between RPI 2% p. a. and Between median and upper and maximum 25% and 100% RPI 8%p.
a. quartile Maximum 100% RPI 8% p. a.
Upper quartile Performance achieved Adjusted EPS of 220.5p.
26th out of 122 companies See commentary above From a base of 139.6p this is equivalent to growth of RPI 14.65% p. a.
Actual % vesting 90% 25% 25% 25% 15% The value of the Group Chief Executives LTIP award is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 95.
This includes the value of the long term incentive shares vesting which amounted to 672,764 based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2015 16 of 24.54.
The closing share price on 2 July 2016 was 19.78 which would result in a lower LTIP value at vesting.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment is also payable equating to 70,821.
96 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.
Pension allowance The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary.
The Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
Other remuneration The value of the gross cumulative dividend payment in relation to the 2012 13 deferred share bonus award which vested in November 2015 following the end of the three year deferral period.
2015 16 LTIP awards granted during the year ended 2 July 2016 audited As reported in the annual report last year, an LTIP award was granted to the Group Chief Executive during the year ended 2 July 2016.
This was structured as a nil-cost option, which is exercisable at the end of a three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2015 16 financial period and ending with the 2017 18 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Vested awards are then subject to a further two year holding period other than for sales to settle any tax or NIC liability on exercise of the awards.
The 2015 16 grant policy was to grant awards with a face value of 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive only as follows: Number of shares over 2 Share price at grant which award was Face value of award % of award which vests Vesting determined by 1 Executive director Basis of award granted date granted '000 as threshold performance over David Brown 150% of salary 25.46 32,618 830 10% for EPS, 25% Three financial years for TSR and 10% for ending on 1 July each customer 2018 element 1.
The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of 24.58, this being the average of the middle market quotations during the period of five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the plan rules.
The face value of the award has been calculated on a share price of 25.46.
This was the share price on 4 November 2015, the date of grant.
Following consultation with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding changes to our remuneration policy for the 2015 16 financial year, which included the LTIP performance targets, the performance conditions attaching to the 2015 16 LTIP awards were as follows: Relative TSR vs Compound annual FTSE 250 EPS payout % of growth in adjusted Payout % of TSR excluding certain Payout % of each Rail customer Bus customer element EPS element sectors customer element service target service target Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 10% 10% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 0% Below median 0% Less than 78% Less than 90% 5% p. a.
25% Median 10% 78% 90% Between threshold Between 10% Between RPI Between 25% Between Between 10% Between 78% Between 90% and maximum and 100% 5% p. a. and RPI and 100% median and and 100% and 82% and 93% 13% p. a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 13% p. a.
100% Upper quartile 100% 82% 93% The customer satisfaction targets will be as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport Focus formerly Passenger Focus and published in the annual report.
This is a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead.
It is a strategic priority for the Group to provide high-quality service and customer satisfaction is a critical measure of our performance.
This influences our ability to retain franchises and to win new ones.
Ensuring management is focused on this strategic measure is critically important as a driver of long term shareholder value.
There is an additional profit threshold for the customer service target which is that adjusted EPS growth over the three year period must be greater than RPI 5% before any of the customer service element of award can vest.
The above EPS targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these policies.
Awards will continue to vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
com 97 Directors remuneration report continued Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited The committee believes that the shareholding requirements for executives play an important role in the alignment of the interests of executives and shareholders and help to incentivise executives to deliver sustainable long term performance.
From the 2015 16 financial year, the Group Chief Executives guideline was 150% of salary, which had increased from 100% previously, while the Group Chief Financial Officers guideline was 100% of salary.
Until they reach these levels, the executive directors are expected to retain 50% of the post-tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards.
From the 2016 17 financial year, the committee has agreed that the Group Chief Executives share ownership guidelines will increase to 200% in accordance with best practice.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax and NICs due on receipt of shares for a further two years.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in shares and long term incentive interests for the period ending 2 July 2016 are set out in the table below.
At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 46,261 shares equating to 169% of base salary based on the closing share price on 2 July 2016 and therefore meets the shareholding requirement.
The Group Chief Financial Officer beneficially held 1,866 shares, which he had purchased shortly after joining the Group, equating to 10% of base salary and therefore does not meet the shareholding requirement yet.
8 Executive director David Brown Patrick Butcher 1 Ordinary shares 28 June 2015 or date of appointment if later 21,677 0 2 2 July 2016 46,261 1,886 Shareholding requirement % of basic salary 150% 100% 3 Current shareholding as at 2 July 2016 % of basic salary 169% 10% Shareholding requirement met Yes No 4 5 Share options Without performance conditions Sharesave 197 0 6 With deferral conditions Unvested deferred share bonus awards 31,364 0 6 With performance conditions Unvested LTIP awards 53,953 0 7 Vested but unexercised share awards 27,415 0 Shareholding when 2013 DSBP and 2012 13 LTIP awards vest in November 2016 % of basic salary 227% 10% 1.
Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the directors personal holdings and those of their spouses.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
During the year, David Browns beneficial shareholding increased by 24,584 ordinary shares.
This comprised of 4,590 and 19,923 ordinary shares acquired through the post-tax gain on the 2012 13 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards respectively which vested in November 2015.
Additionally, 71 shares were purchased under the Groups Share Incentive Plan during the period 28 June 2015 and 2 July 2016.
For further details on the vesting of the 2012 13 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards, please see page 99.
Shareholding as a % of salary includes only ordinary shares.
Unvested deferred shares or LTIP awards have not been included.
Shareholding is based on the closing share price on 2 July 2016.
Deferred share bonus plan and LTIP awards are structured as nil cost options.
Sharesave is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance condition as per HMRC Regulations.
Excludes deferred share bonus plan shares and LTIP awards which will be granted in November 2016 for the year ended 2 July 2016.
The value of deferred share awards granted in respect of the year ended 2 July 2016 is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 95.
Relates to the 2013 14 LTIP award which has vested in respect of the year ended 2 July 2016 and which will be exercised shortly after the AGM, in November 2016.
The value of the 2013 14 LTIP award is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 95.
In the period 2 July 2016 to 8 September 2016, David Browns ordinary shareholding increased from 46,261 to 46,277 as a result of shares purchased under the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
There have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the executive directors between 2 July 2016 and the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Keith Down beneficially owned 13,322 as at 28 June 2015 and 13,347 ordinary shares as at 6 December 2015 the date he resigned as director.
Following the vesting of the 2013 14 LTIP award and the 2013 14 deferred share award which will take place in November 2016, the Group Chief Executives shareholding will increase to 227% of salary.
98 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Executive directors interests in outstanding share awards and options audited The table below sets out details of the executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance conditions and or continued service.
The Group Chief Financial Officer joined the Group on 14 March 2016 and so had no interests in share awards and options during the year ended 2 July 2016.
Relates to the 2013 14 LTIP award which has vested in respect of performance for the year ended 2 July 2016 and will be exercised shortly after the 2016 AGM in November 2016.
The 2012 13 deferred share bonus award was exercised on 13 November 2015 with a share price of 25.57.
David Brown and Keith Downs gain on their awards was therefore 221,462 and 141,735 respectively.
The 2012 13 LTIP award was exercised on 5 November 2015 with a share price of 25.016.
David Brown and Keith Downs gain on their awards was therefore 942,053 and 602,911 respectively.
The former Group Finance Director resigned from the Board on 6 December 2015.
Details of his leaving arrangements are set out on page 100.
All awards made in 2013 and 2014 and his sharesave award lapsed on leaving the Group.
For transparency, these are shown in the lapsed in year column.
com 99 Directors remuneration report continued Payments to former directors and payments for loss of office audited There were no payments made to former executive directors during the year ended 2 July 2016.
Departure terms for the former Group Finance Director audited Keith Down resigned as Group Finance Director on 6 December 2015 and continued to receive salary and benefits until that date.
The committee considered the overall circumstances of his departure as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules.
The committees determinations, which are consistent with the remuneration policy, are set out below: Remuneration element Description Payment in lieu of notice No payment in respect of salary or benefits or compensation in lieu in respect of any period after 6 December 2015 or compensation for loss of office was made Performance-related bonus All entitlement to the performance-related bonus for the year ended 2 July 2016 has been forfeited Pension allowance No pension allowance was made in respect of any period after 6 December 2015 and no additional amounts were paid for loss of office Deferred share awards As reported last year, as the former Group Finance Director remained employed by the Group on the vesting date, the 2012 13 deferred shares vested in November 2015 Those other amounts of annual performance-related bonus from 2013 onwards that were compulsorily deferred into shares for a period of three years all lapsed with effect from 6 December 2015 in accordance with the plan rules LTIP awards No 2015 16 LTIP grant was made to Keith Down As reported last year, as the former Group Finance Director remained employed by the Group on the vesting date, the 2012 13 LTIP award vested in November 2015.
All other LTIP awards lapsed with effect from 6 December 2015 in accordance with the plan rules Recruitment remuneration for Group Chief Financial Officer The remuneration package for the new Group Chief Financial Officer comprises the following which is entirely in line with the approved remuneration policy: A base salary of 370,000 Family healthcare membership A non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of base salary Eligibility to participate in the Groups annual performance-related bonus up to a maximum of 150% of base salary per annum Eligibility to participate in the Groups LTIP up to a maximum of 100% of base salary per annum The Group Chief Financial Officer has a service agreement which requires six months notice of termination by him and 12 months notice by the Group No compensation was paid for incentives lost from the Group Chief Financial Officers previous employer Percentage change in the Group Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives total remuneration between the financial years 28 June 2015 and 2 July 2016, compared to the average change for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2015 to 2016 Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive 2.8 100 Average employees 2.3 4.1 100 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group Chief Executive remuneration comparison Annual performancerelated bonus actual Long term incentive award v maximum vesting vesting v opportunity maximum opportunity Single total figure of Year Group Chief Executive remuneration 000 000 and % vesting 000 and % vesting 1 2015 16 David Brown 1,311 0 744 90% 2 2014 15 David Brown 2,134 558 69.6% 1,067 100.0% 2 2013 14 David Brown 1,960 766 97.5% 666 80.0% 2012 13 David Brown 942 422 55.3% 2011 12 David Brown 1,022 513 68.0% 3 2010 11 David Brown 251 125 100.0% 2010 11 Keith Ludeman 1,564 530 100.0% 1.
The single total figure of total remuneration for 2015 16 includes the vesting of the 2013 14 LTIP award.
At the request of the Group Chief Executive, there was no annual base salary increase as at 1 April 2016 or any annual performance-related bonus paid for the year ended 2 July 2016.
The single figure of total remuneration for 2014 15 restated and 2013 14 includes the vesting of the 2012 13 and 2011 12 LTIP awards respectively.
Following his appointment in April 2011, the Group Chief Executive was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year 2010 11.
The relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, compared to that of the previous year.
2015 16 2014 15 % m m change Dividends 39.4 36.7 7.4 Overall expenditure on pay 1,215.5 1,079.6 12.6 The Group has not made any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
Total shareholder return TSR The Go-Ahead FTSE 250 Index Peer Group performance graph Group plc average return The graph to the right shows a comparison of The 300 Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index for the last seven financial years to 2 July 2016.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR, 250 the Board believes the FTSE 250 index comparator group it has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for 200 this purpose.
This graph shows the value by 2 July 2016 of 100 invested in The Go-Ahead Group plc on 27 June 2009 compared 150 with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index and our peer group over the same period.
The other points plotted are the same values at intervening financial 100 year ends.
The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the Group Chief Executive over the same seven year period.
50 The total remuneration figure includes the performancerelated bonus and LTIP awards and the percentage of the maximum opportunity that these represent.
com 101 Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and non-executive director fees Fee levels for the Chairman and the non-executive directors were reviewed on 1 April 2016 and increased by 2%.
Non-executive directors who chair a committee receive an additional fee.
From 1 April 2016, an additional fee is also paid to the Senior Independent Director to reflect the additional time commitment attributable to this role.
Additional fee for Senior Independent Additional fee Non-executive director Base fee Director for chairing a committee Total From 1 April 2016 Andrew Allner 173 173 000 p. a.
Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 2 July 2016 and the prior year: Single total remuneration figure 000 Non-executive director 2016 2015 Andrew Allner 173 170 Katherine Innes Ker 54 52 Nick Horler 47 46 Adrian Ewer 53 52 Non-executive directors shareholdings audited Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
The shareholdings of each non-executive director is as follows: As at 2 July As at 27 June 2016 2015 Andrew Allner 742 742 Katherine Innes Ker 116 Nick Horler 1,038 Adrian Ewer 138 138 Material contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a director of the Group was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 17 Details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2016 17 financial year are set out below.
2016 17 base salaries The base salaries of the executive directors will remain unchanged until the next review on 1 April 2017.
Benefits The benefits for both executive directors will remain consistent with those detailed in the remuneration policy section on pages 88 and 89.
Pension The current pension arrangements described on page 97 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
102 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2016 17 Performance-related bonus The performance measures and weightings for 2016 17 which remain unchanged from 2015 16 are as follows: Metric Weighting % of maximum bonus Adjusted Group operating profit AGOP 65% Group cashflow 10% Strategic KPIs 25% AGOP, cashflow and strategic KPI targets will be stretching for the 2016 17 financial year and more information on the specific targets and performance against them will be provided retrospectively in next years remuneration report to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive at the time.
The strategic KPIs include a number of non-financial strategic and personal objectives, including customer satisfaction, communication and reputational KPIs.
A health and safety target threshold will continue to apply to the full bonus, with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
There will also be an additional rail customer service threshold, with the remuneration committee having discretion to scale back the bonus, if customer satisfaction across the Groups train operating companies in Spring 2017, as measured by the Transport Focus National Rail Passenger Survey NRPS averaged across the Groups train operating companies Southeastern, Southern, Thameslink and Great Northern, Gatwick Express and London Midland is less than the London and South East Sector NRPS reported for Spring 2016.
Any bonus payable will be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply to the full performance-related bonus and the audit committee will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit and budget review in conjunction with the auditor before approval of any bonus payment.
2016 17 LTIP awards The structure of LTIP awards to be granted in 2016 will remain the same as for the 2015 awards with the EPS and TSR elements of the awards accounting for 40% each and a customer satisfaction target award of 20% split equally between rail and bus.
The LTIP award will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following vesting.
An additional two year holding period following the vesting of awards will also apply during which any vested awards may not be sold other than to pay any tax and NICs due on exercise.
This will result in an overall five year period before executives can realise the gain on vested shares.
For the year commencing 3 July 2016, the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer will have a face value of 150% and 100% of salary respectively.
The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2016 17 are detailed below: Relative TSR vs Compound annual FTSE 250 EPS payout % of growth in Payout % of TSR excluding certain Payout % of Rail customer Bus customer element adjusted EPS element sectors customer element service target service target Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 10% 10% Below threshold 0% See below 0% Below median 0% Less than 78% Less than 90% Threshold 10% 25% Median 10% 78% 90% Between threshold and maximum Between 10% Between 25% Between Between 10% Between 78% Between 90% and 100% and 100% median and and 100% and 82% and 93% upper quartile Maximum 100% 100% Upper quartile 100% 82% 93% The committee is not proposing any changes to remuneration policy for the financial year 2016 17.
However, the committee does have the discretion to vary the weighting of and choice of LTIP metrics prior to each award.
In accordance with best practice, the committee will be consulting with the Groups major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding the EPS targets for the 2016 17 awards in response to the revised outlook for GTR and analysts repositioning their forecasts.
At the time of signing this report the adjusted EPS targets for the 2016 17 awards had not been finalised by the committee and so are not included in the table above.
It is intended that these targets will be at least as stretching in the current circumstances as those set for the 2015 16 awards.
The outcome of this consultation will be confirmed to the Groups major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies before the 2016 AGM, in addition to being disclosed in next years annual report.
Non-executive directors fees The non-executive directors fees will remain unchanged until the next annual fee review is undertaken on 1 April 2017.
Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chair 8 September 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
