Governance Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Committee report I am pleased to present on behalf This Annual Statement pages 62 to 64 ofthe Board the 2016 Directors and the Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration report.
set out on pages 73 to 85 will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Dear Shareholder This Directors Remuneration report 2016 performance and reward sets out our proposed Remuneration Aligned with our focus on generating Policy which we expect to apply for shareholder returns through the active Belinda Richards three years from the 2017 AGM, management of our assets, the majority Committee Chairman subjectto shareholder approval.
of our annual bonus in 2016 was subject Itprovides asummary of how we intend to a combination of OPBVM and ROSE toimplement the new Remuneration targets.
These metrics combined to Index to the report Policy in the year ahead and discloses ensure that Executive Directors were the amounts paid to our Executive and focused on driving profit from our Committee Chairmans Non-Executive Directors for the year day-to-day activities at the same time AnnualStatement Remuneration Policy ended 30 September 2016. asmaximising the value of our Annual Report on Remuneration underlying assets.
In addition, a minority What is in this report?
of bonus opportunity was based on how 1 Single total figure of 73 The report complies with the provisions well our Executive Directors performed remuneration for each Director of the Companies Act 2006 and against an individually tailored scorecard 2015 and 2016 Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumof key performance metrics.
2 Annual bonus awards 74 sized Companies and Groups Accounts performance assessment and Reports Amendment Regulations With regard to the performance for2016 2013.
The report has been prepared in achieved during the year, we delivered 3 LTIP awards performance 77 line with the recommendations of the OPBVM of 88.7m and ROSE of 10.6%.
assessment for 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and the The performance against OPBVM was 4 Share scheme interests 77 awarded during the year requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
7.8m ahead of the target set for the 5 Payments to past Directors 78 year of 80.9m and ROSE was 6 Payments for loss of office 79 The Directors Remuneration Policy marginally above mid-range of 5% 7 Directors shareholdings and 79 setout on pages 65 to 72 will be put to to15%.
When performance against share interests shareholders for approval in a binding these metrics was aggregated with 8 Performance graph and table 81 vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The achievement against individually total shareholder return effective date of the updated policy tailoredstrategic targets, annual 9 Chief Executive single figure 81 is8February 2017 which is the date bonuses ranged from 67% to 76% as 10 Percentage change in 82 Shareholder approval is being sought apercentage of the maximum available.
remuneration of Chief forthe revised policy.
Full disclosure of the actual targets set, Executive and employees and performance against those targets, 11 Relative importance of spend 82 on pay is set out on pages 74 to 76.
12 Statement of implementation 82 of Remuneration Policy for2017 13 Directors service agreements 84 and letters of appointment 14 Details of the Remuneration 85 Committee, advisers to the Committee and their fees 15 Statement of voting at 85 generalmeeting 62 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Over the longer term, we have Alignment of remuneration However, it was agreed that the current historically operated a Long-Term withstrategy policy should be simplified and updated Incentive Scheme LTIP that measured As detailed in the Strategic report, to take account of developments in our success based on performance theyear under review has been a year bestpractice.
As a result, subject to against NNNAV 50% of an award ofchange at Grainger.
Under new shareholder approval at the AGM, there andabsolute total shareholder return executive leadership we undertook are a number of revisions to be made to TSR 50% of an award targets.
adeep review of every aspect of our our current Remuneration Policy which Operating intandem, these metrics are business and announced a refined are detailed below: aligned with creating a strong balance strategy in January 2016.
At the heart sheet andcreating shareholder value.
ofour refined strategy is targeting Simplifying the annual bonus improved long-term shareholder structure with the removal of the The awards granted in 2013 under returns.
This is to be achieved through exceptional bonus maximum and theLTIP will be eligible to vest in acombination of growing rents following introducing part-deferral of annual December 2016.
With regard to NNNAV the application of a targeted residential bonus into Grainger shares performance over the period ending investment programme and Streamlining the LTIP so that only 30September 2016, NNNAV has simplification and focus within our performance shares will be granted increased by 47.2% against the 22.4% business model through exiting non-core infuture years i. e. there will be no increase in the Halifax and Nationwide assets and reducing operating costs.
further awards of matching shares House Price indices.
This will result in under the LTIP 40% vesting of this part of the award.
In light of our refined corporate The introduction of a two-year Interms of TSR, it iscurrently forecast objectives, and having had regard to the holding period on vested LTIP shares to show an annual compound increase feedback received from Shareholders A tailoring of incentive plan inthe region of 10.7% over the threeinrelation to our remuneration practices performance metrics to better align yearperformance period ending at the time of our 2016 AGM, the with Graingers refined strategy.
Should this level of Committee undertook a full review of includes increasing the weighting on TSR be maintained to the conclusion of our approach to remuneration during return and profitability in the annual the performance period, this would result the year under review.
The objective bonus and introducing relative total in 57% of this part of the award vesting.
wasto ensure that future policy will shareholder return and total property support Grainger through its next return into the LTIP In light of the strong performance three-year remuneration policy Introducing Committee discretion delivered over the relevant performance period, which will commence from tooverride incentive pay outcomes periods to date, the Committee is the2017 AGM.
based on the application of the comfortable, overall, with the level conditions set if payouts are not ofvariable pay earned and forecast The key conclusions of the Committees considered reflective of overall inlight of the performance delivered.
review were that the current approach company performance to weighting remuneration to long-term Increasing our share ownership performance remained aligned with our guidelines from 100% to 200% overall strategic objective of improving ofsalary long-term returns to Shareholders.
The above changes are considered, inaggregate, to create a more strategically aligned and long-term focused Remuneration Policy.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Governance Remuneration Committee report continued Implementation of policy for 2017 Shareholder engagement The base salaries of the Executive The changes proposed to the Directors will not be increased with Remuneration Policy noted above were effect from 1 January 2017 see the subject ofextensive shareholder Note12to the Annual Report on engagement during the year under Remuneration for more details.
The Board values the opinions of its Shareholders and other stakeholders An overview of the changes to our and has proactively taken their views general approach to remuneration into account when finalising the which we intend to operate from the proposed Remuneration Policy and AGM are detailed above.
Full details its application for 2017. of the intended application of the Remuneration Policy are set out on The Committee is committed to pages 82 to 84 of the Annual Report maintaining an ongoing dialogue with on Remuneration.
Shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration and we welcome any With regard to the current LTIP, as further feedback you may have.
thescheme will shortly reach the end ofits ten-year duration, shareholder We look forward to your support on the approval is being sought at the AGM for resolutions relating to remuneration at a replacement.
Subject to Shareholders the AGM on 8 February 2017. approval of the replacement LTIP, this will enable Grainger to continue to operate aLTIP in line with the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Belinda Richards In addition, I would highlight that the Chairman of Remuneration Committee current HMRC approved all-employee 1 December 2016 Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme will also reach the end of its ten-year life.
Consequently, a resolution requesting shareholder approval in respect of a successor SAYE scheme on similar terms will also be sought at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee firmly supports the principle of broad employee share ownership and the previous SAYE scheme was successful in encouraging employees tobecome owners in Grainger.
Renewalof the scheme will enable all our employees, including the Executive Directors, to continue to acquire Company shares on a consistent tax favoured basis in the future.
64 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Governance Remuneration policy Remuneration policy Set out below is the Remuneration Policy for the Company that will be effective from 8 February 2017 the Effective Date, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on that day.
The following table summarises the main elements of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy for 2017 onwards, the keyfeatures of each element, their purpose and linkage to our strategy.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 72.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy To enable the recruitment and retention of individuals of the necessary calibre to execute the Companys business strategy.
Operation Reviewed annually and effective from 1 January.
Decision influenced by: role, experience and personal performance: average change in total workforce salary: total organisational salary budgets: and Company performance and other economic conditions.
Salaries are benchmarked periodically and are set by reference to companies of a similar size andcomplexity.
Opportunity Salaries will be eligible for increases during the three-year period that the Remuneration Policy operates from the Effective Date.
During this time, salaries may be increased each year in percentage of salary terms in line with increases granted to the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or asignificant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, aseries of increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Framework to assess performance The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate Committee meeting each year after having due regard to the factors noted in operating the salary policy.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
Operation Car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, ill health income protection, travel insurance, health check-up.
Other ancillary benefits including relocation expenses may be offered, as required.
Opportunity The value of benefits may vary from year to year depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
Framework to assess performance N A Pension Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives and enable long-term savings through pension provision.
Operation The Company may contribute directly into an occupational pension scheme an Executive Directors personal pension or pay a salary supplement in lieu of pension.
If appropriate, a salary sacrifice arrangement can apply.
Opportunity The pension contribution or allowance is based on 15% of basic salary.
Framework to assess performance N A Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Governance Remuneration policy continued Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise the achievement of annual targets, rewarding strong operational performance set with reference to target performance levels for the year.
Operation Compulsory deferral of 25% of any bonus paid into shares for three years with the balance of the bonus paid in cash.
Deferred shares typically vest after three years and are normally subject to continued employment.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made in cash or shares on deferred shares at the time ofvesting and may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Opportunity Maximum bonus potential is capped at: 140% of salary for the Chief Executive: and 120% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
Framework to assess performance Details of the performance measures used for the current year and targets set for the year under review and performance against them will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bonus will be predominantly based on a challenging range of financial targets set in line with the GroupsKPIs tailored to each individual role as appropriate, for example, targets relating to ROSE andadjusted earnings previously called recurring profit.
For a minority of the bonus, targets relating tothe Groups other KPIs will operate for example strategic targets.
For financial targets, and where practicable in respect of strategic targets, bonus starts to accrue once the threshold target is met 0% payable rising on a graduated scale to 100% for outperformance.
The Committee may adjust bonus outcomes, based on the application of the bonus formula set at thestart of the relevant year, if it considers the quantum to be inconsistent with the Companys overall performance during the year.
For the avoidance of doubt this can be to zero and bonuses may not exceed the maximum levels detailed above.
Any use of such discretion would be detailed in the AnnualReport on Remuneration.
In the event that there was i a misstatement of the Companys results: ii a miscalculation or an assessment of any performance conditions that was based on incorrect information: or iii misconduct on behalf of an individual, recovery and or withholding provisions may apply for three years from the date of payment of any bonus.
Long-Term Incentive Schemes Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise the delivery of sustained performance over the longer term.
To encourage greater shareholder alignment through personal investment in the Companys shares.
Operation Long Term Incentive Schemes have been provided under the 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan and will be provided, with effect from the 2017 AGM and subject to Shareholder approval, under the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan collectively referred to as LTIP.
The LTIP provides for awards of free shares i. e. either conditional shares or nil-cost options normally made annually which are eligible to vest after three years subject to continued service and the achievement of challenging performance conditions.
Shares as a minimum on an after tax basis are subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period for awards granted from the Effective Date of the Remuneration Policy.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made in cash or shares on LTIP shares at the time of vesting on vested shares and may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Opportunity Annual awards are capped at: 175% of salary for the Chief Executive: and 130% of basic salary for the other Executive Directors.
The Committee may grant awards at up to 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment to compensate for value forfeit from a previous employer.
66 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Long-Term Incentive Schemes continued Framework to assess performance Granted subject to a blend of challenging financial e. g. total property return and total shareholder return performance targets tested over three years.
25% of awards will vest for threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets.
No awards vest for performance below threshold.
Agraduated vesting scale operates between threshold and maximum performance levels.
The Committee may adjust LTIP vesting outcomes, based on the result of testing the performance condition, if it considers the quantum to be inconsistent with the Companys overall performance during the three-year performance period.
For the avoidance of doubt this can be to zero.
Any use ofsuch discretion would be detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In the event that there was i a misstatement of the Companys results: ii a miscalculation or anassessment of any performance conditions based on incorrect information: or iii misconduct onbehalf of an individual, recovery and or withholding provisions may apply for three years from anaward becoming eligible to vest.
Savings related share schemes Purpose and link to strategy To encourage employees to make a long-term investment in the Companys shares.
Operation All employees, including the Executive Directors, are eligible to participate on the same terms in the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE scheme and Share Incentive Plan SIP, both of which are approved by HMRC and subject to the limits prescribed.
Opportunity SAYE: Participants may invest up to 500 per month or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time for three or five-year periods in order to purchase shares at the end of the contractual period at a discount of up to 20% to the market price of the shares at the commencement of the saving period.
SIP: Participants can invest up to 150 per month or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time in shares in the Company, and the Company may then, subject to certain limits, double that investment.
The Company may also allocate free shares annually on a percentage of basic pay, subject to a maximum of 3,600 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
Dividend payments on SIP shares are reinvested in dividend shares and must be held in trust for threeyears.
Framework to assess performance N A Shareholding guidelines Under the Shareholding Guidelines Executive Directors are expected to build up over time a shareholding equivalent to 200% of their base salary.
Executive Directors are required to retain a minimum of half the after tax number of vested shares in relation to future LTIP awards to satisfy the guideline.
The Committee will also operate a general expectation that the guideline will be met within five years of its introduction, although the Committee reserves the right to take into account vesting levels and personal circumstances when assessing progress against the guideline.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Governance Remuneration policy continued Changes to the Remuneration Policy introducing Committee discretion Useof strategic targets enables the The above Remuneration Policy includes tooverride incentive pay outcomes Committee to incentivise delivery against a number of revisions when compared based on the application of the the evolving strategy of the Group.
against the Remuneration Policy conditions set if payouts are not approved by shareholders at the 2014 considered reflective of overall In respect of long-term performance AGM.
The changes have been made company performance: and targets, LTIP awards will vest subject tobetter align remuneration with the increasing the share ownership to: i challenging total property return refined Company strategy detailed in guideline from 100% to 200% targets that are aligned with the the Strategic report, as well as taking ofbasesalary.
long-term levels of return targeted into account the feedback from our bythe Company: and ii relative TSR major institutional investors.
Choice of performance measures targets whichincentivise the Executive andapproach to target setting team to outperform sector peers and The key changes included: The performance metrics that are provide clear alignment of interests usedfor annual bonus and long-term between Shareholders and Executives.
simplifying the annual bonus incentive plans are a sub-set of the structure so that in future a single Groups KPIs.
Targets are set based on sliding scales bonus maximum will operate as that take account of internal planning opposed to separate normal and Under the annual bonus plan for the and external market expectations for exceptional maximum bonus first year of operating the Remuneration the Company.
This change reduced Policy in 2017, bonuses will be based areavailable for delivering threshold the aggregate maximum potential 40% on ROSE, 40% on adjusted performance levels with maximum bonus in any year for the Chief earnings and 20% on individually rewards requiring substantial Executive from 150% to 140% of tailored strategic targets.
outperformance of the challenging salary and from 125% to 120% for plans approved by the Board at the other Executive Directors: The use of adjusted earnings as a metric startof each financial year.
the ability to grant matching shares isintended to incentivise operational under the LTIP being up to 30% of success in achieving specified levels of The incentive metrics, their weightings salary linked to the deferral of annual rental growth, income from sales and and the range of targets set will be bonus or purchase of shares has reduction in overheads which reflect subject to review each year and may be been removed with only a single type the current key strategic priorities of adjusted to better reflect the strategic of share award performance shares the Company and feed through to priorities of the Company at that time to be granted in future years.
subject to the constraints set out in Accordingly, the LTIP maximum thepolicy above.
award limit has been revised to 175% The term adjusted earnings of salary for the Chief Executive and hasreplaced the term recurring profit.
No performance targets are applied 130% of salary for the other In the context of recently published tothe all-employee plans which are Executive Directors.
The revised guidance from ESMA and the FRC: the aimed at encouraging broad based limits compare to aggregate award Directors considered the use of the term equity ownership.
limits of matching shares and recurring profit and determined that a performance shares of 180% of description as adjusted earnings more Further details of the annual bonus salary and 130% of salary under the appropriately reflects the adjustments metrics to be used for the current previous Remuneration Policy: between statutory profit and this financial year are set out in the Annual the introduction of a two-year measure see Note 4 to the financial Report on Remuneration.
The targets holding period on vested LTIP shares: statements.
The calculation of the for awards to be granted under the the performance metrics to be measure is unchanged.
LTIPin the current financial year are operated in incentive plans, as consistent with the policy set out above detailed below, have been refined Use of ROSE is aligned with delivering and are also specified in the Annual tobetter align with the Companys targeted overall returns from the Report on Remuneration.
refined strategy as detailed in the Companys property portfolio which is Strategic report: supported by a strong balance sheet.
68 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Bonus plan and LTIP policy Reward scenarios for Assumptions: The Committee will operate the annual ExecutiveDirectors bonus plan, LTIP and all-employee plans The Companys Remuneration Policy Below target fixed pay only according to their respective rules and results in a significant proportion of base salary, benefits and pension inaccordance with the relevant Listing remuneration received by Executive On-target 55% payable of the 2017 Rules and HMRC rules consistent with Directors being dependent on annual bonus and 62.5% vesting of market practice.
The Committee retains Company performance.
The graph the 2017 LTIP awards discretion, within the confines and below illustrates how the total pay Maximum 100% payable of the opportunity detailed above, in a number opportunities for the Executive 2017 annual bonus and 100% vesting ofrespects with the operation and Directors varies under three different of the 2017 LTIP awards administration of these plans.
performance scenarios: Theseinclude: Salary levels on which other elements Below target of the package are calculated are based the individual s participating in On-target on those applying on 30 September theplans: Maximum 2016.
The value of taxable benefits is the timing of grant of award based onthe cost of supplying those and or payment: When reviewing the graph, it should be benefits as disclosed on page 73 for the size of an award and or payment: noted that it has been prepared based the year ending 30 September 2016. the determination of vesting: on the policy detailed above and The Executive Directors can participate dealing with a change of control ignores, for simplicity, the potential in the all-employee share plans on the e. g. the timing of testing performance impact of future share price growth.
same basis as other employees.
The targets or restructuring: value that may be received under these determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based onthe rules of each plan and the Reward scenarios for ExecutiveDirectors appropriate treatment chosen: 2,200 adjustments required in certain 1,994 2,000 circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special 1,800 dividends : and the annual review of performance 1,600 41% conditions for the annual bonus plan 1,402 1,400 and LTIP.
1,319 1,184 1,200 The Committee also retains the ability 36% 35% to adjust the targets, and or set 1,000 952 35% different measures and alter weightings 855 32% for the annual bonus plan and to adjust 800 30% 30% 25% targets for the LTIP if events occur 33% 600 545 e. g. material divestment of a Group 33% 25% 25% 427 business which cause it to determine 384 400 that the conditions are no longer 100% 27% 39% 100% 45% 32% appropriate and the amendment is 200 100% 45% 32% required so that the conditions achieve 0 their original purpose and are not Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Target Target Target materially less difficult to satisfy.
CEO CFO Property Director Fixed Annual Bonus Long-Term Share Awards Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 000 Governance Remuneration policy continued schemes is subject to tax approved promotes this through the operation of subject to good performance, where limits.
For simplicity, the value that may the HMRC tax approved all-employee itisconsidered appropriate.
be received from participating in these share schemes which are open to all schemes has been excluded from the UKemployees.
In relation to external appointments, graph on the previous page.
Since the theCommittee may offer compensation above analysis ignores share price How the views of employees are that it considers appropriate to take growth, the values will differ from the takeninto account account of awards and benefits that will values included in the Single total figure The Company, in line with current or may be forfeited on resignation from remuneration table on page 73. market practice, does not currently a previous position.
Such compensation actively consult with employees on would reflect the performance How the Executive Directors executive remuneration.
requirements, timing and such other Remuneration Policy relates specific matters as the Committee tothewider Group The Committee takes due account of considers relevant.
This may take the The Remuneration Policy provides an remuneration structures elsewhere in form of cash and or share awards.
The overview of the structure that operates the Group when setting pay for the policy is that the maximum payment for the Companys Executive Directors Executive Directors.
For example, under any such arrangements which and senior executive population.
consideration is given to the overall may be in addition to the normal However, it is highlighted that there salary increase budget and the variable remuneration should be no aredifferences in quantum within this incentivestructures that operate more than the Committee considers determined by the size and scope of acrossthe Company.
isrequired to provide reasonable individual positions.
compensation to the incoming How the views of Shareholders Executive Director.
The Committee is made aware of pay aretaken into account structures across the Group when The Remuneration Committee If the Executive Director will be required setting the Remuneration Policy for considersshareholder feedback to relocate in order to take up the Executive Directors.
The key difference receivedin relation to the AGM each position, it is the Companys policy is that, overall, the Remuneration Policy year and guidance from shareholder toallow reasonable relocation, travel for Executive Directors is more heavily representative bodies more generally.
Any such weighted towards variable pay than for This feedback, plus any additional payments will be at the discretion of other employees.
feedback received during any meetings theCommittee.
held with Shareholders from time to Base salaries are operated under time, is then considered as part of In the case of an employee who is thesame policy as detailed in the theCommittees ongoing review promoted to the position of Executive Remuneration Policy table with any ofremuneration policy.
Director, it is the Companys policy comparator groups used as a reference tohonour pre-existing award point.
The Committee considers the Approach to recruitment commitments in accordance general basic salary increase for remuneration withtheirterms.
thebroader Company if any when When setting the remuneration determining the annual salary review packagefor a new Executive Director, Non-Executive Director appointments forthe Executive Directors.
the Committee will apply the same will be through letters of appointment.
principles and implement the policy Non-Executive Directors base fees, Outside of the most senior tiers of asset out in the preceding tables.
including those of the Chairman, will executives, the LTIP is not operated beset at a competitive market level, asthis arrangement is reserved for Base salary will be set at a level reflecting experience, responsibility and those anticipated as having the appropriate to the role and the time commitment.
Fees will be reviewed greatestpotential to influence experience of the Executive Director bi-annually.
Additional fees are payable Companylevel performance.
This may include for the chairmanship of the Audit and agreement on future increases up Remuneration Committees and for the However, the Committee believes in toamarket rate, in line with increased additional responsibilities of the Senior wider employee share ownership and experience and or responsibilities, Independent Director.
70 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Directors service contracts and agreement of the Company, ill health With regard to the deferral of annual provision on payment for loss of office ordisability or death, or any other bonus, deferred share bonus awards Executive Directors service contracts reason as determined by the Committee willnormally lapse on cessation of are terminable by the Company on up i. e. theindividual is a good leaver, the employment other than where an to one years notice and by the Director Executive Director may be considered Executive Director is a good leaver on at least six months notice.
If the termination asdetailed above with awards then isfor any other reason, any entitlement vesting on the normal vesting date.
If an Executive Directors employment to bonus would normally lapse.
Under isto be terminated, the Committees any circumstance, it is the Committees It is the Companys policy to honour policy in respect of the contract of policyto ensure that any bonus pre-existing award commitments in employment, in the absence of a paymentreflects the departing Executive accordance with their terms.
breachof the service agreement by Directors performance andbehaviour theExecutive Director, is to agree a towards the Company.
Where the Executive Director termination payment based on the value participates in one or more of of base salary and contractual pension Any bonus payment will normally theCompanys HMRC approved amounts and benefits that would have bedelayed until the performance shareplans, awards may vest or be accrued to the Executive Director during conditions have been determined for exercisable on or following termination the contractual notice period.
The policy therelevant period and be subject to of employment in certain good leaver is that, as is considered appropriate apro-rata reduction for the portion circumstances, where permissible, atthe time, the departing Executive ofthe relevant bonus year that the inaccordance with the rules of the Director may work, or be placed on individual was employed.
garden leave, for all or part of their notice period, or receive a payment in The treatment for share-based incentives External appointments lieu of notice in accordance with the granted to an Executive Director will be Executive Directors are permitted service agreement.
The Committee determined based onthe relevant plan toaccept external non-executive willalso seek to apply the principle of rules.
The default treatment will be for appointments with the prior approval mitigation where possible so as to outstanding awards to lapse on cessation ofthe Board.
It is normal practice reduce any termination payment to a of employment.
In relation to awards forExecutive Directors to retain leaving Executive Director, having had granted under the Companys long-term feesprovided for non-executive regard to the circumstances.
incentive plans, in certain prescribed appointments.
circumstances, such as injury or disability, In addition, the Committee may also redundancy, transfer or sale of the Non-Executive Directors letters make payments in relation to any employing company, retirement with ofappointment statutory entitlements, to settle any claim theCompanys agreement or other The Chairman and Non-Executive against the Company e. g. in relation to circumstances at the discretion of the Directors have letters of appointment breach of statutory employment rights Committee reflecting the circumstances for an initial fixed term of three years orwrongful dismissal or make a modest that prevail at the time good leaver subject to earlier termination by either provision in respect of legal costs or status may be applied.
In each case, outplacement fees.
this term can be extended by If treated as a good leaver, awards will be mutualagreement.
The Company has an enhanced eligible to vestsubject to performance redundancy policy allowing redundancy conditions, which will be measured Non-Executive Directors have amounts to be calculated by reference overthe originalperformance period no entitlement to contractual to actual basic weekly salary and the unless the Committee elected to test termination payments.
policy may be extended to Executive performance to the date of cessation Directors where relevant.
ofemployment, and be subject to The dates of the initial appointments of apro-rata reduction unless the the Non-Executive Directors are set out With regard to annual bonus for Committee considered it inappropriate in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
adeparting Executive Director, todo so to reflect the proportion of ifemployment ends by reason of thevesting period actually served.
redundancy, retirement with the Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Governance Remuneration policy continued Non-Executive Directors fees The policy on Non-Executive Directors fees is set out below: Non-Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive fee which will attract those high-calibre individuals who, through their experience, can further the interests of the Group through their stewardship and contribution to strategicdevelopment.
Operation The fees for Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are typically reviewed every second year or more frequently if required.
Fee levels are set by reference to the expected time commitment and responsibility, and are periodically benchmarked against relevant market comparators as appropriate reflecting the size and nature of therole.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee which is paid at least monthly in cash and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable for chairmanship ofthe Companys key Committees and for performing the Senior Independent Director role.
All Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee during which the Chairman has no part in discussions and recommended by it to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Opportunity Fee levels will be eligible for increases during the period that the Remuneration Policy operates to ensure that they continue to appropriately recognise the time commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity.
Framework to assess performance N A 72 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Governance Annual Report on Remuneration 1 Single total figure of remuneration for each Director The details set out in notes 1 to 7 on pages 73 to 81 of this report have been audited by KPMG.
a b c d e Share LTIP Salary Taxable incentive Annual awards Pension 7 1 2 3 4 5 and fees benefits Plan bonus vesting costs Total 6 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other 000 6 Executive Directors Helen Gordon 422 14 370 63 13 882 Vanessa Simms 209 10 158 31 408 Nick Jopling 354 15 7 236 227 53 892 985 39 7 764 227 147 13 2,182 Former Executive Directors Andrew Cunningham 155 5 5 291 22 478 Mark Greenwood 69 4 1 125 10 209 224 9 6 416 32 687 Non-Executive Directors Baroness Margaret Ford 150 150 Belinda Richards 63 63 Tony Wray 46 46 Andrew Carr-Locke 53 53 Rob Wilkinson 46 46 358 358 Former Non-Executive Directors 8 Simon Davies 8 8 Totals 1,575 48 13 764 643 179 13 3,235 1 As detailed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Helen Gordon was appointed on a base salary of 460,000 with effect from 3 November 2015 and the value included in the table above reflects her salary paid for the part of the financial year that she was employed.
Full details of her recruitment terms were included in last years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Vanessa Simms was appointed on a base salary of 320,000 with effect from 4 February 2016 and the value included in the table above reflects her salary paid for the part of the financial year that she was employed.
There was no compensation for incentive value forfeit on joining Grainger provided to Vanessa in connection with her appointment.
Her salary was set with reference to current market rates for the role and the calibre and experience of the individual.
Nick Joplings base salary during the year under review was 356,842 with effect from 1 January 2016 and the value included in the above table reflects the total salary received following the application of the staff-wide salary increase on 1 January 2016 for part of the year.
2 Taxable benefits include a car allowance and private medical insurance.
3 In line with the contractual provisions specified in their service agreements and having reference to the Companys policy for departing Executive Directors, Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood were not eligible for a bonus in relation to 2015, or for the part of 2016 for which they were in employment, having given notice to the Company to terminate their employment in connection with their retirements during 2015.
4 In line with the requirements of the Remuneration Reporting Regulations, the 2016 LTIP vesting values are based on the forecast value of the awards due tovest on 9 December 2016 50% of the award is based on NNNAV performance measured over the three years to 30 September 2016 and 50% of the award is based on absolute total shareholder return measured over the three-year period to 9 December 2016.
The NNNAV performance measured to 30September 2016 was 2.11% and so 40% of this part of the award is due to vest and forms part of the 2016 LTIP value.
Absolute TSR performance based on an assessment of performance measured to 30 September 2016 is forecast to be 10.7% based on absolute TSR growth of 33%.
The share price for thepurposes of valuing the award is the share price at 30 September 2016 230p for the NNNAV element, and the three-month average share price to 30September 2016 221.7p for the TSR element.
This value will be trued up in next years report to reflect the actual level of vesting and share price at the vesting date.
The 2015 LTIP value has been restated and reflects the actual value of the awards that vested in January 2016.
Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood retired and stepped down from the Board on 4 January 2016 and 22 December 2015 respectively.
Their outstanding LTIP awards were retained and will vest and be exercisable in accordance with the LTIP Rules.
These awards will vest at the end of their respective performance periods pro-rata to the time elapsed between the date of grant of the relevant award and their termination date, and to the extent that the relevant performance targets have been met over the full performance period including following cessation of employment.
5 The pension costs are based on 15% of base salary.
6 Please see Note 4 on page 78 in relation to the vesting of the Tranche 1 buy-out award made to Helen Gordon.
7 With regard to the single total figure of remuneration for each Director in relation to the year under review, the Committee was comfortable with the amounts payable given the performance achieved.
In forming this view the Committee noted the delivery of a ROSE of 10.6% and an OPBVM of 88.7m and that this was delivered in a challenging market context.
In addition, substantial strategic progress was also made with a refined strategy being developed and embedding in the organisation.
From a longer-term perspective, three-year forecast annualised TSR of 10.7% was delivered at the same time as an increasing NNNAV relative to the increase in the Halifax and Nationwide House Price indices of 2.11.
8 Simon Davies retired from the Board on 30 November 2015.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 1 Single total figure of remuneration for each Director continued a b c d e Share Bonus LTIP Salary Taxable incentive awards Pension 1 2 3 4 5 7 and fees benefits Plan Annual Legacy vesting costs Total 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Andrew Cunningham 443 16 7 109 1,543 67 2,185 Mark Greenwood 274 16 7 690 41 1,028 Nick Jopling 343 16 7 192 859 51 1,468 1,060 48 21 192 109 3,092 159 4,681 Non-Executive Directors Baroness Margaret Ford 112 112 Robin Broadhurst 49 49 John Barnsley 15 15 Belinda Richards 55 55 Tony Wray 50 50 8 Simon Davies 42 42 Ian Coull 29 29 Andrew Carr-Locke 28 28 380 380 Total 1,440 48 21 192 109 3,092 159 5,061 2 Annual bonus awards performance assessment for 2016 Actual performance against the targets set for 2016 are set out below straight-line payouts occur between the relevant performance points.
Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms both participated in the 2016 annual bonus on a pro-rata basis, reflecting the proportion ofthe year for which they were employed.
Neither Andrew Cunningham nor Mark Greenwood was eligible to participate in the2016 annual bonus plan.
The detail below sets out the financial targets that were set at the start of the year which were considered equally challenging to those set in prior years allowing for the prevailing trading environment and performance achieved against them together with the personal targets and the extent of achievement against these.
Out-turn % of max element Threshold Target Maximum 2016 Measure Weighting 0% out-turn 60% out-turn 100% out-turn Performance Bonus Profit OPBVM 37.5% 90% of 100% of 120% of 109.6% of 79.3% budget budget budget budget 72.8m 80.9m 97.1m 88.7m Out-turn % of max element Threshold Maximum 2016 Measure Weighting 0% out-turn 100% out-turn Performance Bonus ROSE 37.5% 5% 15% 10.6% 55.7% 74 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The ROSE as detailed above at 10.6% was calculated from the closing NNNAV of 286.7p per share plus the dividend per share forthe year divided by the opening NNNAV per share of 263.4p.
In respect of the personal performance targets set for each Executive Director, these were set against a range of strategic and personal targets at the start of the year or on appointment where appropriate.
The targets set were aligned to Graingers corporate objectives having due regard to the refocused strategy being the key overarching deliverable during the year.
Chief Executive Measure Objective Performance Stakeholder management Deliver effective communication Achieved in full following very positive feedback from the Board ofrefined Company strategy and the Companys leading investors and analysts.
Cost management Design and commence overhead Achieved in full and in line with the annual budget.
Income growth Deliver increased rental income Achieved in full with strong overall rental income at 37.4m measured ona consistent basis of 5m.
against a prior year of 32.4m in respect of the UK portfolio.
Operational performance Complete restructuring of the Company Partially achieved, on the basis of restructuring delivered with tobe embedded and aligned with the alignment of KPIs to strategy, but yet to be fully embedded Companys strategy.
Leadership Lead, coach and develop leadership Achieved in full and evidenced by having worked highly team todeliver strategy and improve effectively with the new leadership team to conclude the the pace ofoutput.
strategicreview, deliver the strategic plan, and made substantial strides in its execution.
On the basis of the above performance, the Committee determined that payment of 90% of the maximum 25% of this part of the bonus was proportionate and reasonable in the circumstances.
Chief Financial Officer Measure Objective Performance Stakeholder management Simplify and align financial reporting, forge Achieved in full and evidenced by highly positive feedback from strong relationships with stakeholders and the Board and the Companys leading investors and analysts improve clarity of external communications.
confirming that there had been significant progress in the method and process of communication of the Companys financial performance.
KPI and reporting Review range and structure of the Achieved in full.
The Chief Financial Officer undertook a Companys KPIs pursuant to the refined thorough review of Group KPIs with the conclusions of this strategy and be in a position to implement analysis being implemented as part of the revised strategy, and embed such KPIs in 2017 financial year.
and such refined KPIs feed through to 2017 including in respect of the new Remuneration Policy.
Funding strategy Define and implement refined funding Achieved in full.
The future funding strategy was designed and strategy, manage financial risks and improve approved by the Board and is being implemented.
Cost reduction In conjunction with the Chief Executive, Achieved in full by having undertaken a full and thorough review identify revised operating model, of potential cost savings and duly delivered those matters communicate, and set timetable identified for 2016. forimplementation.
Pursuant to the above exceptional performance out-turn, the Committee determined that 100% of the maximum 25% of this part of the bonus would bepayable.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2 Annual bonus awards performance assessment for 2016 continued Property Director Measure Objective Performance Sales Achieve predetermined sales and Partial achievement on the following basis for each element: profittargets included within the a 87.4m of core sales was achieved with a margin of 59.5%: 2016budget from core, Chelsea b 11.8m in respect of development profit: and anddevelopment portfolios: c 14.1m of Chelsea sales, it being noted by the Committee a 55% margin on 94m core sales: thatthis market has faced considerable external macrob 9.5m development profit: and economic challenges.
Cost reduction Deliver a restructuring of the property Substantially but not fully achieved as part of the businesswith redefined leadership implementation of the strategic plan.
Income Grow net revenue income to 72% Achieved in full with a net revenue income at 72%.
Operational Achieve operational excellence in dealings Partially achieved due to a combination of strong relationships withkey long-term business partners.
with some partners, but not yet at this level in respect of Progressmeasured against business plan.
Pipeline Achieve up to 500m committed to acquire Partial achievement with approximately 300m commitment to quality pipeline in 2016. acquire pipeline in the context of challenging market conditions in certain areas.
Following consideration of the performance against the objectives set, the Committee determined that payment of 64% of the maximum 25% of this part of the bonus was appropriate in the circumstances.
The total bonuses earned, therefore, were 73%, 76% and 67% of the maximum bonus opportunity based on pro-rata base salaries as appropriate for the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Property Director respectively.
The 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration highlighted that certain matters were excluded due to commercial sensitivity.
This related to Nick Joplings personal target to Lead the strategic plan to secure a private rented sector portfolio of scale against the projected timeline.
The outcome of that target as specified in the 2015 report can now be supplemented by reference to the Clippers Quay, Salford transaction, which since the production of the 2015 report has been secured and duly announced.
This transaction was well progressed at the time of the 2015 report and formed part ofthe PRS pipeline but was subject to typical confidentiality provisions until the date of exchange.
76 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 3 LTIP awards performance assessment for 2016 The awards made to Executive Directors in December 2013, and which are due to vest in December 2016, are based on NNNAV and absolute TSR targets measured over a three-year period.
Performance against the vesting schedule can be summarised asfollows: LTIP awards vesting in December 2016 Out-turn % of max element Actual Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum performance LTIP 1 Three year growth in TSR annualcompound 50% 5% 15% 10.7% 57% NNNAV increase over three years relative to HPI, 2 asmeasured by Halifax and Nationwide 50% 1.5% 3.0% 2.11% 40% 1 Performance measurement period three years to 9 December 2016 actual performance is a forecast based on performance measured to 30September2016.
2 Performance measurement period three years to 30 September 2016.
NNNAV increased by 47.2% between September 2012 and September 2015 whilsttheaverage increase in the Halifax and Nationwide House Price indices over the same period was 22.4%.
The forecast vesting value of the awards made in December 2013, subject to the above performance targets, is included in the 2016 single figure table above.
The awards made to Executive Directors in December 2012, and which vested in December 2015, were based on NNNAV andabsolute TSR targets measured over a three-year period.
Performance against the vesting schedule can besummarised asfollows: LTIP awards vesting in December 2015 Out-turn % of max element Actual Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum performance LTIP 1 Three-year growth in TSR annualcompound 50% 5% 15% 32% 100% NNNAV increase over three years relative to HPI, 2 asmeasured by Halifax and Nationwide 50% 1.5% 3.0% 2.95% 96% 1 Performance measurement period three years to 10 December 2015.
Actual performance over the performance period, at 32%, was marginally lower than the forecast included in last years Directors Remuneration report which had been estimated at 33%.
This had no impact on the forecast vesting result.
2 Performance measurement period three years to 30 September 2015.
NNNAV increased by 67.5% between September 2012 and September 2015, whilstthe average increase in the Halifax and Nationwide House Price indices over the same period was 22.9%.
4 Share scheme interests awarded during the year LTIP share awards Matching awards Face value Face value Number 000 Number 000 Helen Gordon 287,117 689 57,423 137 Vanessa Simms 130,995 284 11,750 26 Nick Jopling 144,161 346 43,248 104 The face value for Helen Gordon and Nick Jopling is based on a price of 240.3p being the average share price from the five business days immediately preceding the award that was made on 11 January 2016.
The face value for Vanessa Simms is based on a price of 217.1p being the average share price from the five business days immediately preceding the award that was made on 11 February 2016 which was shortly after she commenced employment with the Company.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 4 Share scheme interests awarded during the year continued The face value of performance shares awarded were 150% of salary in the case of Helen Gordon, 89% of salary in the case ofVanessa Simms being a pro-rata award to reflect her joining part way through the year and 100% of salary in the case of Nick Jopling.
The awards of both performance and matching shares will be eligible to vest in three years contingent upon continued employment and satisfying the performance criteria.
Half of the award is subject to a TSR growth condition measured over three years from the grant of the award with the other half subject to a NNNAV growth condition measured over three financial years starting with the year in which the award was granted.
The performance targets require three year growth in NNNAV to be 1.5 times the average growth recorded by the Halifax and Nationwide indices for threshold vesting 0% and 3 times the indices for full vesting.
In terms of TSR, annual compound growth of 5% per annum is required for threshold vesting 0% with 15% per annum growth is required for full vesting.
Straight line vesting takes place between performance points.
In addition to the above, as disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Helen Gordon received performance adjusted and or related buy-out awards to replace share awards forfeited from her previous employer on joining Grainger.
Theawards were structured where practicable so that performance related Grainger share awards replaced the performancelinked awards from her former employer.
Helen Gordon buy-out shareawards Face value Number Tranche 1 19 May 2016 33,122 79,601 Tranche 2 7 March 2017 69,328 99,967 Tranche 3 9 March 2018 50,045 120,270 Total 152,495 299,838 In relation to Tranche 1, 27,602 shares comprised in this award lapsed with the remaining 5,520 shares vesting in May 2016.
Thelapsed element arose pursuant to the Committees assessment of the value actually forfeit in connection with the award received from her previous employer it was granted to replace.
In relation to Tranche 2 and Tranche 3, the same performance targets as detailed above for the awards granted during the year under review will apply save for the fact that the three year performance period of Tranche 2 runs from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2016 for the NNNAV part of the award with the TSR part of the award having a performance period that runs from December 2013 to December 2016.
For Tranche 3, the performance period runs from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2017 for the NNNAV part of the award with the TSR part of the award having a performance period that runs from December 2014 to December 2017.
These conditions are the same as those applying to other Grainger employees receiving awards in 2013 and 2014.
5 Payments to past Directors Peter Couch, who retired from the Board on 31 January 2014, retained a pro-rated entitlement to 115,507 shares granted on 10December 2012 under the terms of the Companys LTIP.
This award vested at 98% when the value of the shares that vested at 233.6p per share was 264,426.
The payments to Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood, who retired during the year, aredetailed elsewhere in this report.
78 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 6 Payments for loss of office In relation to the retirement of Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood, which took place on 4 January 2016 and 22December 2015 respectively, in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy, they were treated as good leavers for thepurposes of their outstanding long-term incentive awards.
Accordingly, their outstanding awards will remain eligible tovestat the normal vesting date subject to: i a pro-rata reduction for the proportion of the vesting period elapsed to thedateof their retirement: and ii the application of performance targets over the original performance period.
There have not been, nor will there be, any other payments made in connection with their retirement.
b The performance conditions that apply to awards granted in the year under review are set out on page 78 and for the previous financial year were set out in full in the previous Annual Report and Accounts.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 7 Directors shareholdings and share interests continued Share options Exercised Lapsed in during Granted in year year year Gains on Share Share Market exercise options options at Grant Exercise price on of share at Exercise 1 Oct price price exercise options 30 Sept price Earliest Latest 2015 Number p Number Number p p 2016 p exercise date exercise date Andrew Cunningham SAYE 20,026 16,061 3,965 151.30 220 2,724 Mark Greenwood SAYE 5,199 5,199 Nick Jopling SAYE 21,770 21,770 68.9 01-Sep-17 01-Mar-18 SAYE 10,013 10,013 151.3 01-Mar-20 01-Sep-20 Helen Gordon SAYE 10,791 166.80 10,791 166.80 01-Sept-19 01-Mar-20 The closing trade share price on 30 September 2016 was 230.0p.
The highest trade share price during the year was 252.5p andthe lowest was 193.1p.
Directors shareholdings Ordinary shares of 5p each thousands Beneficial 1 Oct 30 Sep 31 Oct 2015 2016 2016 Nick Jopling 599 795 795 Helen Gordon 81 81 Vanessa Simms 12 12 Baroness Margaret Ford 40 61 61 Belinda Richards 12 12 Tony Wray 10 10 10 Andrew Carr-Locke 10 10 Rob Wilkinson 10 10 649 991 991 Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors The Committee believes that it is important for a significant investment to be made by each Executive Director in the shares of the Company and has established share ownership guidelines for the Grainger Executive Directors.
These guidelines state that Executive Directors are expected and encouraged to build over a five-year period a shareholding equivalent in value to at least 200% of salary from the 2017 AGM, which is an increase from the previous guideline of 100% of salary.
Current levels of share ownership by the Executive Directors in post during the financial year under review are as follows.
The values were calculated as at 31 October 2016 when the share price was 221p.
These values do not include the value ofanyshares that are scheduled to vest on 9 December 2016.
80 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Value at Current 31 October % of holdings 2016 current thousands 000 salary Helen Gordon 81 179 39 Vanessa Simms 12 27 8 Nick Jopling 795 1,757 492 1 Former Directors Andrew Cunningham 1,771 3,914 N A Mark Greenwood 467 1,032 N A 1 The shareholdings of Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood were correct at the time of cessation of employment.
8 Performance graph and table Total shareholder return This graph shows the value by 30 September 2016 of 100 invested in Grainger plc on 30 September 2008 compared with thevalue of 100 invested separately in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Real Estate Supersector Index.
Grainger plc FTSE 250 Total Return Index FTSE 350 Real Estate Supersector Total Return Index Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 9 Chief Executive single figure Annual variable Long-term incentive Chief Executive element award rates vesting rates single figure of against maximum against maximum total remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 % % 2016 Helen Gordon from 4 January 2016 882 42 N A 2016 Andrew Cunningham to 4 January 2016 478 2015 Andrew Cunningham 2,185 98 2014 Andrew Cunningham 2,477 64 100 2013 Andrew Cunningham 2,519 63 100 2012 Andrew Cunningham 733 19 2011 Andrew Cunningham 1,083 50 16 2010 Andrew Cunningham 777 43 2009 Andrew Cunningham 583 22 Helen Gordons single figure total remuneration includes a period when she was Chief Executive designate, during which Andrew Cunningham was Chief Executive.
Accordingly there is an element of double counting in her single figure total remuneration for 2016.
Andrew Cunningham was acting Chief Executive for most of 2009 due to the absence through illness of Rupert Dickinson.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Total Shareholder Return Rebased Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 10 Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive and employees The percentage change in remuneration between 2015 and 2016, excluding LTIP and pension contributions, for the ChiefExecutive and for all other employees in the Group was as follows: Percentage change 20152016 Base salary Benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive -5% -13% 100% Employee population 2% 8% -28% 11 Relative importance of spend on pay The difference in actual expenditure between 2015 and 2016 on remuneration for all employees in comparison to profit after tax and distributions to Shareholders by way of dividend are set out in the graphs below: Profit after tax Dividend Total employee pay m m m 92.6m 7.4m -1.4m 216.9% 65% -6.4% Includes 60.8m of discontinued operations 12 Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 Base salary Pursuant to the strategic focus on management of overheads and the wider prevailing executive remuneration environment, the Remuneration Committee following consultation with management determined that in respect of three Executive Directors there should be no increase to the base salary during the 2016 17 pay review process.
Annual bonus As detailed in the Annual Statement and Remuneration Policy, the structure and metrics to operate for the 2017 annual bonus are being revised.
The revised bonus opportunities that will operate for 2017 will be as follows: Chief Executive: 140% of salary Chief Financial Officer: 120% of salary Property Director: 120% of salary 82 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2015 42.7 2016 135.3 2015 11.3 2016 18.7 2015 21.9 2016 20.5 Governance Deferral of part of the annual bonus into Grainger shares is being introduced for the first time in 2017 with 25% of any bonus earned to be deferred into Grainger shares for three years.
This change will provide a clear link between the short-term actions that will determine bonus out-turn and the longer-term implications on Company performance.
The performance metrics to apply will be as follows: Metric Targets Rationale for metric Performance level Budget Payout Adjusted earnings 40% of bonus opportunity Incentivises operational success in achieving Threshold 90% 0% rental growth, income from sales and Target 100% 60% reduction in operational and finance cost Maximum 120% 100% relative to a challenging budget.
Straight line between performance points ROSE 40% of bonus opportunity Performance level ROSE Payout Incentivises the delivery of targeted levels of Threshold 5% 0% return from our property portfolio which is Maximum 15% 100% aligned with a strong balance sheet in respect of the NNNAV performance and dividend level.
Straight line between performance points Strategic targets 20% of bonus opportunity The metrics for each Executive Director will Each of the headline metrics are underpinned beas follows: by defined measurable milestones or a range of targets set with reference to budgeted Chief Executive: i deliver on strategy objectives.
These are consistent with the andbusiness plan: ii improve operational strategy and targeted objectives for the performance: and iii secure increased yearagreed by the Board.
Chief Financial Officer: i improve debtmaturity and cost of debt: ii securetechnology transformation: and iii secure overhead reduction.
Property Director: i deliver agreed PRSpipeline: ii secure sales in line with target:and iii improve gross to net leakage andproperty operational performance.
With regards to the above targets, full retrospective disclosure of the targets will be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration subject to considering any perceived areas of price sensitivity.
LTIP As detailed in the Annual Statement and Remuneration Policy report, the LTIP is being simplified in its operation for awards to be granted from 2017 with no further awards of matching shares to take place.
As a result, only awards of performance shares will take place in future years.
The LTIP is also to expire in 2017 and so a replacement LTIP is being proposed at the AGM.
The replacement LTIP mirrors the general terms of the previous LTIP other than for the removal of the matching share element and introduction of a two-year holding period on vested shares.
The award levels to operate in 2017 are the same as, or lower than, the maximum award levels previously operated under the LTIP when account was taken of both awards of performance and matching share awards.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, it is anticipated that the following awards will be granted to the Executive Directors under the scheme in 2017: Chief Executive: 175% salary Chief Financial Officer: 130% of salary Property Director: 130% of salary Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued 12 Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 continued The performance metrics to apply will be as follows: Metric Targets Rationale for metric Ranking Budget TSR Versus FTSE 350 Real Estate Incentivises Executives to deliver above median Below median 0% Supersector constituents sector TSR which is a targeted outcome of an Median 25% effective execution ofour strategy.
Upper quartile 100% Straight line between performance points Performance level TPR Payout Total Property Return Rewards for delivering the key pillars of our Threshold 5% 0% long-term strategy income growth and Target 5% 25% capital returns.
Maximum 9% 100% Straight line between performance points three-year average.
As detailed in the Remuneration Policy, robust recovery and withholding provisions will apply to both LTIP and annual bonus awards which will enable the Committee to reclaim or adjust future variable pay awards in the event of a misstatement of the Companys results, any errors in calculation of actual performance against a target set or in the event of misconduct.
Furthermore, the Committee will retain the right to reduce overall pay outcomes if it considers the variable pay out-turn is not reflective of broader Company performance over the relevant performance periods.
Non-Executive Directors fees There is no current intention to change the prevailing fee levels of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the current financial year.
The fees were most recently reviewed with effect from 1 October 2015.
Current fee levels are as follows: Basic Non-Executive Director fee: 45,000 Additional fee for chairing Board Committee: 9,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director duties: 7,500 Chairmans fee: 150,000 13 Directors service agreements and letters of appointment Executive Directors Contract commencement date Notice period Helen Gordon November 2015 12 months Vanessa Simms February 2016 6 months Nick Jopling September 2010 6 months Former Executive Directors Mark Greenwood September 2010 6 months Andrew Cunningham October 2009 12 months Non-Executive Directors Date of initial appointment Baroness Margaret Ford July 2008 Belinda Richards April 2011 Tony Wray October 2011 Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 Rob Wilkinson October 2015 Former Non-Executive Directors Simon Davies November 2012 84 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 14 Details of the Remuneration Committee, advisers to the Committee and their fees The Remuneration Committee currently comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors including the Company Chairman.
Details of the Directors who were members of the Committee during the year are as follows: Meetings Meetings eligible to Committee Member Member since attended attend Belinda Richards Committee Chairman March 2015 5 5 1 Baroness Margaret Ford January 2010 4 5 Simon Davies February 2013 November 2015 1 1 Andrew Carr-Locke April 2015 5 5 Tony Wray February 2016 4 4 1 Margaret Ford notified the Company in advance that she would be unable to attend the 9 September 2016 meeting due to a prior diary commitment.
The Company Secretary and the Human Resources Director and other members of the senior management team may be invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Committee appointed New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon plc, as advisers to the Committee for part of the year under review.
Korn Ferry Hay Group KFH was subsequently appointed by the Committee.
The role of the adviser is to keep the Committee informed of developments in the market and best practice and to support the Committee in the design and implementation of Remuneration Policy.
Total fees paid or payable as applicable to NBS and KFH in respect of services totheCommittee during the 2016 financial year were 93,280 2015: 63,000 and 10,800 2015: N A.
Both NBS and KFH aresignatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice provided is governed by that Code.
TheCommittee reviews the adviser relationship periodically and remains satisfied that the advice it receives from its advisers isindependent and objective.
15 Statement of voting at general meeting At the AGM held on 10 February 2016, the Directors Remuneration report received the following votes from Shareholders: Directors Remuneration report Total number % of of votes votes cast For 288,823,290 93 Against 22,002,475 7 Total votes cast for and against 310,825,765 100 Votes withheld 2,517,601 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85
