55 PART C DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report contains details of the Directors Remuneration Policy that will govern the Companys future remuneration payments and will take effect from the date of the AGM.
The Committee is responsible for establishing the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Awards granted prior to this first vote on Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM will be honoured.
A binding resolution to approve this Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 20 June 2017.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy As set out in the Annual Statement, for the 2017 Remuneration Policy the Committee is not proposing any ongoing incentive arrangements.
This will be reviewed during the 2017 financial year with a revised policy presented to shareholders at the 2018 AGM following the shareholder consultation process in 2017.
For 2017, the legacy incentive arrangements, entered into prior to the date of the report will continue to operate.
When setting Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee has endeavoured to ensure that all Directors are provided with an appropriate remuneration framework to encourage enhanced performance and that they are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Performance Element and targets and strategic link Operation Maximum recovery provisions BASIC SALARY To provide competitive An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment and reviewed The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are A broad assessment xed remuneration that annually or when there is a change in position or responsibility.
positioned in line with companies of a similar size to GVC and of individual and will attract and retain validated against other companies in the e-gaming industry, business performance When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: appropriate talent.
sothat they are competitive against the market.
is used as partofthe remuneration practices within the group: salaryreview.
Reects an individuals The Committee intends to review the comparator each the general performance of the group: responsibilities, year and may add or remove companies from the group as No recovery experience and role.
salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator it considers appropriate.
Any changes to the comparator provisionsapply.
group used for remuneration benchmarking whenthe Committee group will be set out in the section headed Implementation determines it is appropriate to carry outabenchmarking exercise : ofRemuneration Policy, in the following financial year.
any change in scope, role and responsibilities: In general salary increases for Executive Directors will be inline with the increase for employees.
the experience of the relevant director: and The Company will set out in the section headed the economic environment.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become Executive Directors.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for employees until the target positioning is achieved.
BENEFITS To provide competitive The Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life insurance The maximum is the cost of providing the relevant benets No performance or benets and to attract andaccommodation allowances.
recovery provisions and retain high calibre applicable.
The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable exibility employees.
in thebenets provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benets may therefore be offered such as relocation allowanceson recruitment.
PENSION To provide an opportunity The Company does not currently have a separate pension arrangement The Executive Directors do not currently receive a pension.
No performance or for retirement planning.
It does however provide the opportunity for all recovery provisions employees to participate in a Company-provided pension in line with applicable.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES No performance or To provide compensation Non-executive Directors are paid an annual fee and the Audit Committee The fees for Non-executive Directors and the Chairman are recovery provisions that attracts high calibre Chairman receives an additional fee for chairing the AuditCommittee.
broadly set at a competitive level against the comparator group.
individuals and reects TheCompany may pay additional fees for chairing a Board Committee In general the level of fee increase for the Non-executive their experience and if this is deemed appropriate in specic circumstances.
There are no Directors and the Chairman will be set taking account of knowledge.
additional fees for chairing or being amember of a committee.
anychange in responsibility and the general rise in salaries Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the comparator across employees.
group used to review salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any Non-executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax variable remuneration or benets arrangements.
incurred in relation to these.
