Consideration of employee remuneration and shareholders All-employee remuneration In setting the remuneration policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees are taken into account, including any base salary increases awarded.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the Executive Directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Group.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Through the Board, however, the Committee is updated as to employee views on remuneration generally.
See page 54 for the Companys general approach to employee remuneration.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee has an open relationship with shareholders on remuneration matters.
It welcomes dialogue and will engage with significant shareholders on material changes to its remuneration policy or structure.
During the acquisition of bwin.
party, we consulted with shareholders on, amongst other aspects, the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors.
It should be noted that the 2015 LTIP was separately approved by shareholders with a strong level of support as part of the acquisition of bwin.
PART D ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration contains details on the remuneration paid and awarded to Directors during the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the Regulations.
An advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Annual Statement will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 20 June 2017.
Directors remuneration for the year ending 31 December 2016 Single gure remuneration table audited The remuneration of Directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative gures for the prior Financial Year is shown below.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with Regulations.
Further information on this is provided in the table on page 60.
Taxable benets comprise a car allowance, private medical and life insurance.
