Remuneration Committee Report Remuneration Committee Chairmans Letter Dear Shareholders On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Report for the financial period ended 1 April 2016.
The Report consists of three sections: Our approach to this Annual Statement: remuneration supports our Policy Report, which sets out a summary of the Directors a strong focus on Remuneration Policy for all Directors of Halfords: and performance and reflects our Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out the details of how the Companys Directors were paid during FY16 and how our key strategic our Policy will be implemented in FY17.
The Annual Report on objectives.
Remuneration is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Policy The Committee was pleased that shareholders approved our Remuneration Policy at the AGM that took place on 30 July 2014.
There are no proposals to amend the Policy at this time and it is intended that it continues to apply until 2017.
Read more about the Remuneration Policy in the corporate governance section, the full policy is online at www.
com investors governance remuneration-policy See more on our Remuneration Policy on pages 60 to 62.
Remuneration Structure and Philosophy The Remuneration structure is comprised of the following elements: fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension: and variable pay annual cash bonus and Performance Share Plan.
Our approach to remuneration supports a strong focus on performance and reflects our key strategic objectives.
Our remuneration philosophy aims to provide Executive Directors with incentive opportunities strongly aligned to growth, profitability and shareholder returns.
Performance Share Plan PSP To ensure that the interests of the Executive Directors continue to align with the delivery of the strategy, the Committee again determined that the performance measure for the FY16 PSP would be based on 75% Group EBITDA growth and 25% Group Revenue growth.
The rules for the current PSP, which were approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, now contain clawback provisions in addition to the existing malus provisions.
Annual Bonus PBT was 81.5m in 2015 16 and therefore 15% of this element of the bonus was achieved 80% of the total bonus being based on PBT.
There has been strong progress against strategic objectives during the year particularly in relation to 50:39 store delivery, value added sales growth and retention of store colleagues.
The Committee judged that 11.5% of this element should be paid.
This resulted in an overall bonus of 23.5% of maximum.
58 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information Fast Fact 60 miles The distance you can travel on one charge of Halfords Carrera Crossfire-E bike Fast Fact figures relate to 4th April 2015 - 1st April 2016 Save As you Earn Scheme SAyE yet unpaid bonus due from his previous employer as announced on The Committee believes that encouraging colleagues to own shares 2 July 2015, details of this appear on page 64.
Jonny Mason was not in the business encourages them to think like an owner in their eligible for the pay review as he was appointed after the review on dealings with customers and colleagues, which is why the Company 12 October 2015. took advantage of the change in HMRC rules and doubled the monthly During the period the Committee set the performance targets for the sum that colleagues are permitted to save.
Share ownership is another 2016 PSP and these were set to be consistent with, and supportive factor that makes Halfords a great place to work, as it drives colleague of, the Moving Up A Gear strategy communicated in November 2015. motivation and commitment.
At the AGM in 2014, shareholders approved the renewal of a UK SAYE Scheme, which led to the adoption Our Remuneration Policy approved in 2014 allowed the Committee of new rules for the UK SAYE.
Shareholders also approved measures to to award a bonus of up to 150% for the CFO and we have taken the allow overseas colleagues to participate in similar SAYE schemes.
opportunity to increase his total potential award to this level.
Following the announcement of our new Moving Up A Gear strategy The Executive Directors reviewed the Non-Executive Directors fees in November 2015, the Committee approved a new SAYE opportunity as detailed on page 62. for colleagues to encourage further share ownership in alignment The Committee has previously approved the addition of malus and with the launch of the strategy.
clawback provisions within the FY16 Executive Bonus and Deferred Bonus schemes and, as mentioned above, the introduction of Incentive Remuneration Review clawback provisions into the new PSP rules, alongside existing malus Jill McDonald was appointed as the Group CEO in place of Matt Davies provisions was approved at the FY15 AGM.
In order to ensure her appointment, the Board agreed provisions give the Committee the ability to reduce awards prior to it was necessary to award her 114,702 ordinary shares in the Company vesting or require repayment of awards that have vested or been paid to compensate for awards made by her previous employer that lapsed in certain circumstances.
The value of these shares was 529,819.
These share awards were announced on 23 March 2015 when her appointment Concluding Remarks was made public.
The first tranche of 38,973 shares was awarded in I hope that you will find the Report clear, transparent and informative.
February 2016, and it is expected that future tranches will be delivered The Committee has sought to set a remuneration environment in a similar way until the full commitment is satisfied.
that strongly aligns the commercial direction of the Group with The Committee approved a 2% salary increase for Jill McDonald, the interests of shareholders, whilst reflecting best practice mirroring that awarded to colleagues throughout the Support Centre developments and market trends.
I look forward to your support in October 2015. at the Companys AGM.
Following the departure of Andrew Findlay, the Chief Financial Yours faithfully Officer in October, the Committee recommended to the Board the Claudia Arney approval of an appropriate CFO remuneration package to achieve Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the appointment of his successor.
The Board was delighted to secure 1 June 2016 Jonny Mason as the Group CFO and agreed that, as part of his package, it was necessary to compensate him for an accrued but as stock code: HFd halfords.
