STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration Committee appropriate mid-market positioning, Allocation of time the Committee has determined that Paul Walkers fee should be increased to a mid-market level in two stages from the current 180,000 fee.
Initially this will increase to 210,000 from 1 April 2016 and we anticipate this could be increased further intwo years time, coincident with the nexttriennial policy review, subject to theCommittee considering this to be appropriate in the circumstances.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW AT THE2016AGM Governance and reporting 32% On behalf of the Board, I am pleased As we are not making any further changes Remuneration Framework 39% topresent the Directors Remuneration Incentive targets 11% toour remuneration policy as approved by Report for the year ended 2 April 2016.
Equity incentives 18% shareholders at the 2015 annual general meeting, there is no vote to approve the Our executive remuneration framework payments to executive Directors of between remuneration policy this year.
There will operates within a culture of strong 80% and 105% of base salary.
Ofthese be the usual advisory resolution to approve governance, a discipline which is reflected amounts one third will be deferred fortwo the Annual Report on Remuneration, which throughout the Companys activities.
Halmas years and is payable in shares.
focuses on the remuneration outcomes strategy is to build a strong competitive forthe year under review and how the Performance was similarly strong over the advantage in specialised safety, health and Remuneration Committee intends to three-year performance period for the environmental technology markets with implement the policy next year.
performance share awards granted in 2013, resilient growth drivers.
This strategy has with averaged ROTIC of 16.2% and Total longbeen underpinned by the remuneration The Committee is aware of the latest Shareholder Return of 77% putting Halma framework which balances a short-term developments in the executive pay in the top quartile of its comparator group.
incentive related to improvements in the arena, particularly those from institutional Accordingly, 94.7% of the performance share Economic Value Added EVA in a financial shareholders and we monitor these closely.
awards is expected to vest.
The Committee year including an element deferred for two is satisfied that there has been a robust link years in the form of shares with a longerMy colleagues on the Remuneration between reward and performance over term share incentive related to Return on Committee and I hope that you will theseperiods.
Total Invested Capital ROTIC and Total supportthe resolution approving the Shareholder Return TSR and, more recently, Remuneration Report.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICY Earnings per Share EPS.
FOR 2016 17 As mentioned there are no structural The Committee undertook a significant changes proposed to the implementation review of the remuneration policy in 2015 Tony Rice of the policy for 2016 17.
Base salaries for leading to anew policy receiving the support Remuneration Committee Chairman executive Directors have been increased by of 98% ofshareholders at our 2015 AGM.
14 June 2016 2% to 2.1%, in line with the average increase This was our first full policy review for 10 for theworkforce generally.
years and coincided with the need to seek shareholder approval for a new long-term The Committee has determined appropriately equity incentive plan toreplace the previous stretching economic profit based targets for time-expired plan.
the annual bonus and has determined that the range of EPS and ROTIC targets for the Having reviewed the implementation of performance share awards should be thepolicy in its first year of operation I am unchanged from the prior year.
pleased to say that no structural changes areconsidered necessary to policy or its The Committee is also responsible for implementation for the forthcoming year.
determining the fee level for the Chairman and we have reviewed the current fee level REMUNERATION OUTCOMES against market positions in peer companies.
IN2015 16 Recognising the shortfall of the current fee The Company has delivered another year level in relation to our assessment of an ofstrong performance against our KPIs.
Inparticular revenue grew by 11%, adjusted EPS grew by 10% and the Board is proposing a further 7% increase in dividend per share for shareholders.
With tight controls on capital, the economic value added performance condition generated total annual bonus Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73
