Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and Directors Remuneration Report as explained in the UK Corporate Governance An ordinary resolution for the approval of this Code, the Board considers these provisions Directors Remuneration Report will be put not relevant to the position of the Company, to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual being an externally-managed investment General Meeting to be held in 2016. company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative There are no long term incentive schemes functions are outsourced to third parties.
provided by the Company and no performance As a result, the Company has no full time fees are paid to Directors.
executive directors, no direct employees No Director has a service contract with the or internal operations.
The Company has Company however each director is appointed therefore not reported further in respect of by a letter of appointment which sets out the these provisions.
Other areas of non-compliance terms of the appointment.
with the AIC Code by the Company, and the Directors are remunerated in the form of fees, reasons therefore, are as follows: payable quarterly in arrears, to the Director Each independent director is appointed for personally.
The table below details the fees an initial term of three years and is subject paid to each Director of the Company to re-election by shareholders every for the year ended 31 January 2016. third year thereafter.
This differs from the recommendation of the AIC Code where Additional directors are subject to re-election at the Director Fees Fees first Annual General Meeting after their Sir Michael Bunbury $120,000 $120,000 Chairman, Independent Director plus appointment.
$12,000 There is no separate remuneration expenses committee, which is not in accordance Keith B. Corbin $66,000 $26,400 with the AIC Code.
Given that the Audit Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director Board is comprised of five independent Alan C. Hodson $60,500 $24,200 directors and two directors affiliated with Independent Director the Investment Manager, it is felt that Andrew W. Moore $60,500 $24,200 it is appropriate for the whole Board to Independent Director consider these matters.
Jean-Bernard Schmidt $60,500 $24,200 Independent Director The Board has not formalised a policy on diversity.
The Board has renewed D. Brooks Zug nil nil Director its commitment to appointing the Peter G. Wilson nil nil best applicant for any Board positions Director becoming open and may use external TOTAL $379,500 $219,000 search consultants if required to ensure Related to work associated with the move to the Main Market that there is a strong and varied pool The Companys Articles limit the fees payable of applicants.
The Boards priority is to to Directors to $750,000 per annum.
ensure that it is composed of directors with a broad balance of skills, experience Signed on behalf of the Board by: and opinions.
The Board has not formalised a policy on tenure, which is not in accordance with the AIC Code.
The Board has agreed to Michael Bunbury keep the matter under review.
Chairman Keith Corbin Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 May 2016 71
