Annual report on remuneration This section sets out how the Policy of the Company has been applied during the year and details how the Committee intends to apply the Policy going forward.
An advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the AGM in May 2017.
Compliance statement This is the Companys DRR which has been produced pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Listing Rules, section 420 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended 2013.
The Company also complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
Overview of executive directors policy and approach for 2017 An overview of the key remuneration elements in place for Executive Directors and details of the implementation of the Policy for 2017 are set out below.
There are no significant changes from 2016.
Key element Summary of Policy Details of approach for 2017 Salaries are normally reviewed annually, No changes are proposed to salaries for 2017.
Base salary with any increase usually taking effect Salaries for 2017 are: fromJanuary.
Gary Hoffman: 475,000 Richard Hoskins: 315,000 The Company operates a defined Executive Directors will receive a contribution Pension contribution scheme.
The maximum annual of 10% of salary and both will receive cash in contribution is 10% of salary.
Benefits include a car allowance of 8,000pa, private medical cover for the Executive and Benefits family, life assurance, long term disability insurance and costs associated with rental property.
Executive Directors may participate in the SIP on the same terms as other employees.
Share Incentive Plan SIP Awards are based on financial, operational For 2017, the level of the award will be Annual bonus and individual goals during the year.
based primarily on adjusted operating profit.
In determining individual payouts, At least 50% of the award will be theCommittee will also consider assessed against the Companys financial performance against pre-determined 4Cs performance.
The remainder of the award objectives, aligned to our strategy.
This will be based on personal performance includes financial and non-financial metrics against individual objectives.
relating to Colleagues, Customers, Company 50% of salary awarded for on target and Community, in line with our bonus performance with an absolute maximum approach across the organisation.
The details of the performance targets for A proportion earned is deferred into 2017 are commercially sensitive and will Company shares, which vest over three years.
therefore be disclosed in next years report.
25% of any award made will be deferred into shares for three years.
