Directors Remuneration Policy Policy table extract This section sets out an extract of the Policy, approved by Shareholders at the Companys AGM in May 2016 and applies from that date.
A full copy of the Policy, binding for three years from May 2016, is included in the 2015 Annual Report, which can be found on our website, at www.
The Policy was approved by 99.98% of shareholders.
No changes are proposed to the Policy this year.
Remuneration Policy table Executive Directors Element and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures linktostrategy The Committee takes into account a number of factors There is no set maximum None Base salary when setting and reviewing salaries, including: to salary levels or salary Fixed remuneration increases.
Account will be that is appropriate scope and responsibility of the role: taken of increases applied to for the role and to any changes to the scope or size of the role: colleagues as a whole when secure and retain the skills and experience of the individual: determining salary increases the talent required for the Executive Directors, by the Company.
salary levels for similar roles within appropriate however the Committee comparators: and retains the discretion to value of the remuneration package as a whole.
award higher increases where it considers it appropriate.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually, with any increase usually taking effect from January.
The Company operates defined contribution group The maximum annual None Pension personal pension schemes.
Company contribution is Fixed remuneration currently 10% of salary.
that assists in Executive Directors may elect to opt out of the pension providing income scheme and receive the equivalent Company contribution The Committee retains the inretirement.
discretion to increase the Company contribution in line with levels in the wider market.
Benefits include, but are not limited to, a car allowance, The current car allowance None Benefits private medical cover for the Executive and family, life is a fixed amount of 8,000 Fixed remuneration assurance, long term disability insurance and costs per annum.
The Committee that provides associated with rental property.
retains the discretion to protection for the review this in line with levels individual which is in the wider market.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate, The cost of other benefits is benefits may be provided to support the relocation, dependent on the terms of including relocation assistance, housing or a housing the relevant provider.
allowance and reimbursement of travel costs where appropriate and any tax arising as a consequence.
Executive Directors may participate in the SIP on the Participation in any HMRC None Share Incentive same terms as all other colleagues.
The SIP commenced approved all colleagues Plan SIP in April 2016. share plan is subject to the Aligns colleagues maximum permitted by the and shareholder relevant taxlegislation.
83 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued Executive Directors Element and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures linktostrategy Objectives are set annually based on the achievement 50% of salary for on target Awards are based on Annual bonus of strategic goals.
At the end of the year, the Committee performance with an absolute financial, operational Variable meets to review individual and corporate performance maximum opportunity of and individual goals remuneration against objectives and determines payout levels.
that rewards the achievement of From the performance year 2016 onwards, a portion of At least 50% of the annual financial, bonus normally will be deferred into an award of shares award will be assessed operational and under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
Normally, not less against the Companys individual objectives than 25% of any bonus will be deferred for a period of financial performance.
integral to Company three years.
The remainder of strategy over a one the award will be Accrued dividends can be paid in cash or shares, to the year period.
based on personal extent that awards vest.
performance against The Committee may adjust and amend awards in individual objectives.
accordance with the DBP rules.
The split between these performance measures The Committee may reduce the size of unvested will be determined awards if a there is a material misstatement of audited annually by the results or an error in the calculation of the bonus: b Committee.
the Executive Director commits gross misconduct: or c events or the Executive Directors behaviour has a significant detrimental impact on Hastings reputation and the Committee determines the Executive Director is responsible or directly accountable for that damage during a period beginning at the start of the bonus year and ending three years after the bonus was determined.
Where appropriate, the Committee may also require the participant to repay some or all of the value of the shares received under an award in the circumstances referred to in a or b during the same period.
Awards granted under the LTIP vest subject to the The normal maximum level of LTIP performance Long-Term achievement of performance conditions measured awards that may be made in conditions will be Incentive Plan overathree year period.
respect of a financial year is reviewed annually.
In exceptional Conditions and targets Variable LTIPs are made as conditional share awards, however circumstances the Committee will be selected to align remuneration may be made in other forms e. g. nil cost options if it is may grant awards of up to with the Companys long designed to considered appropriate.
incentivise and Accrued dividends may be paid in cash or shares, to the reward the The current intention is extent that awards vest.
achievement of long that Executive Directors term targets aligned The Committee may adjust and amend awards in will not participate in with shareholder accordance with the LTIP rules.
the LTIP during 2016 but interests.
The Committee may reduce the size of unvested awards LTIP also assists if a there is a material misstatement of audited results or Performance measures in the retention of an error in the assessment of the performance conditions for awards going Executive Directors.
applicable to an award: b the Executive Director commits forward are yet to be gross misconduct: or c events or the Executive Directors determined, however behaviour has a significant detrimental impact on the current intention is Hastings reputation and the Committee determines the that they will be linked Executive Director is responsible or directly accountable to a measure based on for that damage during a period beginning at the start shareholder returns and of the performance period and ending on the sixth a measure based on anniversary of the grant date.
After vesting but before earnings performance.
the sixth anniversary of the grant date, the Committee At threshold may also require the participant to repay some or all of performance, no the value of the shares received under an award in the more than 25% of the circumstances referred to in a or b. award will vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
84 Non-Executive Directors Approach to fees Operation Performance and link to strategy measures The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
None Fixed payment toremunerate The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
No Director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
Fee levels are determined by assessing the skills and experience required along with the likely Set at an appropriate time commitment and market indicators.
level to attract Fees may be paid in cash or company shares.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specific Board Directors of the responsibilities, including membership and chairmanship of committees or acting as the Senior required calibre and Independent Director.
to reflect the time Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive Director duties for the Company are commitment and reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate along with any commensurate responsibility of tax liability.
Non-Executive Director fees are subject to a maximum cap of 1,500,000 as stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes in this would be subject to shareholder approval.
