Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman The achievement of these results, including adjusted Dear Shareholders operating profit pre-Ogden up 21% to 152.1m and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present progress towards the long term goals of the Company are our  Report DRR for underpinned by our Policy.
Our strategy is set out in the Strategic Report and is focused on creating long term value the year ended31December 2016. for our shareholders by delivering sustainable growth.
The Committee determines the Companys Policy to ensure Last year we presented our first DRR following our IPO in alignment with the strategic plan and the interests of our October 2015.
We received a vote of 99.98% for both our shareholders through the design and delivery of meaningful Annual Report on Remuneration Report and Remuneration and tailored incentives with stretching performance targets Policy Policy by our shareholders at our Annual General for our executive team.
This year, we are not proposing to make any changes to our Policy.
In the interests of succinct reporting, Remuneration decisions in respect of 2016 we have not reproduced the full Policy but have included, at the As described in the Strategic Report, the Company achieved end of this Report, an extract for ease of reference.
A summary a strong financial performance during the year.
The sustained table, setting out an overview of remuneration elements and growth continues to be profitable and cash generative, with how these will be implemented in 2017, is also included at the adjusted operating profit up 21% to 152.1m before the start of the Report.
The full Policy, as approved by shareholders, impact of the Ogden rate change 5% after allowing for the can be found in the 2015 Annual Report www.
impact of the reduction in the Ogden rate and a 47% increase com investors results-centre annual-reports.
As required by regulation, our Report will be subject to an Annual bonus awards are determined taking into account this advisory vote at our AGM in May this year.
As no changes are adjusted operating profit growth achievement against preproposed, no resolution is proposed on our Policy at this determined targets, as well as overall corporate and individual years AGM.
performance within our 4Cs framework including objectives aligned to Colleagues, Customers, Company and Community.
Remuneration in context This ensures a balanced overall assessment of performance, The Company has had a successful first full year as a listed in line with best practice.
Further information on the 4Cs is company.
This can be seen in the Companys strong top provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on and bottom line growth, including gross written premiums pages 34 to 37. up 25%, growth in adjusted operating profit, prior to the impact of the Ogden rate change as well as a substantial In line with the approach taken as a private company prior uplift in the Companys share price since the start of last to IPO, the Company continues to set stretching adjusted year, significantly outperforming our peers.
There has been operating profit performance targets under the annual bonus aone off strengthening of reserves to allow for the reduction scheme, which apply to all colleagues.
For 2016, the target in the Ogden rate.
As this is one off, it has not impacted the range, set at the start of the year was for annual growth of final dividend and is not expected to have a material impact between 21% and 28% year on year on a like for like basis.
In on the outlook going forward.
The Group is on track to assessing performance against these targets, the Committee meet the targets set out at the IPO last year.
Last year also considered adjusted operating profit prior to the impact of the saw the implementation of several key strategic initiatives one off strengthening of reserves as a result of the reduction and the embedding of Solvency II, providing us with strong in the Ogden rate, reflecting the approach taken for the final foundations to continue our growth into future years.
The 2016 year end achievement represented a 21% uplift on prior year, before the 20m impact of the Ogden rate change.
In addition there was strong achievement against the pre-determined 4Cs objectives.
73 Corporate governance continued Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman continued Upon careful consideration and in recognition of the significant Conclusion value created for shareholders in the year, the Committee We hope you find that this report clearly explains our determined a bonus of 237,500 be made to the Chief Executive remuneration approach and that it enables you to appreciate Officer, representing 50% of salary, and 157,500 be made to how it links to our strategy.
the Chief Financial Officer, representing 50% of salary.
25% of these bonuses will be deferred into shares for three years.
We value the views of our shareholders and we actively The Remuneration Committee also determined that additional welcome any feedback on our Remuneration Policy and its bonus funding be provided for the benefit of the Companys implementation.
We hope you find this report helpful and more junior level colleagues, ensuring that our front line staff informative and we hope to receive your support for the DRR share meaningfully in the Companys success in the year.
For this years DRR a key area of focus for the Remuneration Committee has been to provide comprehensive disclosure Malcolm Le May for shareholders of bonus outcomes for the first full year Chairman following the IPO.
Details on the achievement of bonus targets Remuneration Committee and the outturn of awards is provided on pages 77 to 78.
1 March 2017 Remuneration changes for 2017 The first awards to Executive Directors under the LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP will be made at the start of 2017 and will vest in 2020 subject to the achievement of Total Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings Per Share EPS performance targets.
The Committee currently considers that these measures remain the most appropriate to assess the underlying performance of the business while creating alignment with shareholders and rewarding long term value creation.
Further details on the 2017 LTIP performance targets are provided on page 79.
The salaries of Executive Directors have not been increased since the company listed on the Stock Exchange in 2015.
The Committee is not proposing to increase the salaries in 2017 but will keep this position under ongoing review and anticipates that there may be a need to make adjustments inthe future.
