Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 64 REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT AND SUMMARY This is the third year in a row that Hays has performance indicators together with delivered strong profit performance.
Such longer-term strategic initiatives, and take strong results, allied to outperformance in into account Group risk.
We also consider Hays share price over the last three years the relationship between executive reward relative to its competitors, has directly and the reward structures in place for other contributed towards the reward outcomes for Group employees.
The Committee is always the executive directors both in the annual and mindful to ensure the strength of the link of long-term incentives, as will be covered below.
performance to reward and that it does not reward for failure.
Our executive reward for 2016 reflects these strong results and links pay to performance A Remuneration Policy fit for the future and long-term sustainability of the business Annual Bonus Paul Harrison In December 2015, the Committee began Annual Bonus awards reflected the 2016 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee an in-depth review of the overall executive performance and were 65.76% of the remuneration policy and structure with a view maximum award 82.20% of base salary for to ensuring that it is still fit for purpose in light of the CEO and the CFO.
Maximum opportunity our future strategy over the coming years and The main objective of the Remuneration was 125% of base salary.
40% of each award the continuing cyclical nature of our business.
Committee is: will be deferred into shares for three years.
To promote the long-term success of the While we have a diversified portfolio designed Company by attracting, motivating and 2013 Performance Share Plan PSP to try and mitigate any substantial swings retaining highly skilled executives, while The 2013 PSP vested at 85.59% of the award in business performance by embracing strongly advocating and ensuring a 149.78% of salary out of a maximum of both temporary and permanent candidate culture of high performance and sound 175% reflecting the three-year performance placements, wide-ranging business specialisms values linked to appropriate reward.
period that ended on 30 June 2016. and a global geographical footprint, we nevertheless are subject to the volatility and During 2016 the Committee: Full details of the executive directors vagaries of the economic markets which can Began an in-depth review of the executive remuneration for 2016 can be found in the create sudden changes within the recruitment remuneration structure in order to Single Figure on page 70 and the full Annual industry.
In recent months, this has manifested determine whether the current policy will Report on Remuneration on pages 70 to 85. itself through the general uncertainty triggered continue to complement our future strategy by the Brexit referendum in the UK and wider and recognises the challenges relating to The Committee takes very seriously its duty global unrest underpinned by changes in the cyclical nature of our business.
to exercise judgment and ensure outcomes countries political leadership and general are reflective of the Companys underlying instability in certain geographical areas.
The Committees priorities and actions performance and shareholder experience.
for FY17 are: In looking to the future therefore, the Committee To continue the review of the executive No discretion on any element of remuneration wants to ensure that our reward structure and remuneration structure in preparation for was exercised during FY16.
remuneration policy complement our future the next shareholder binding vote on the strategy and incentivise our executives to Executive Remuneration Policy at the FY17 Remuneration for FY17 ensure the long-term sustainability of our AGM.
The Committee will ensure adequate The executive directors received base salary business in a challenging environment.
time for appropriate consultation and increases of 2.0% effective from 1 July 2016. discussion with shareholders if any changes This was in line with the average pay increase Shareholder consultation and support on any are felt to be required.
for other UK relevant employees.
proposed changes are very important to us This important review of the Remuneration To conduct a full tender for an independent Executive directors will receive an FY17 PSP grant Policy, which is mentioned above, will continue adviser to the Committee as a result of of 175% of base salary which will vest in 2019 during FY17, with the Committee being mindful PwC stepping down with effect from 30 dependent on the performance criteria being met.
that the next shareholder binding vote on our June 2016 due to their successful bid to be Remuneration Policy is due at the November our independent external Auditor.
Our Chairmans fee and the base fee for the 2017 AGM.
other non-executive directors NEDs were also increased by 2.0% from 1 July 2016.
We strongly value the support of our shareholders and are very aware of the views Dear Shareholder Details of the Chairmans and NEDs fees can and guidelines issued by investor bodies on I am pleased to introduce our Directors be found on page 83. corporate governance, remuneration structures Remuneration Report for 2016. and good practice.
The Committee will take into Our Committee activities consideration the ongoing debate on executive Our business continues to deliver During 2016, the Committee formally met pay, together with publications issued on these strong results four times as well as maintained ongoing subjects, and will ensure that it allows the 2016 has been another strong year for Hays.
dialogue via email or telephone discussion.
appropriate time to discuss and consult with With our markets outside of the UK broadly our shareholders should the Committee supportive, management invested to drive Our key regular agenda items include decide to seek future changes to the Policy.
good growth of 7% in net fees and, through reviewing the basic pay, bonus and PSP awards effective operational management and strong for the executive directors and other senior The Committee is committed to an open and cost control especially in the UK, delivered executives.
The Committee ensures that their honest dialogue in this respect.
strong operating profit leverage, with profits targets and objectives are suitably stretching, up 13% and good cash conversion.
include the principal Company financial
