Governance Report 66 Remuneration Committee Report Annette Kelleher Chair, Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, 2016 performance and remuneration Against a backdrop of uncertain political and macro-economic I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for 2016, conditions the Company has once again recorded record results.
More including our updated Directors Remuneration Policy.
This is our first details about the Companys operational and financial performance Directors Remuneration Report since I took over the Chair of the can be found on pages 15 to 26.
Remuneration Committee following the 2016 AGM.
That performance is reflected in the incentive remuneration outturns Our previous Policy was adopted at the AGM in 2014 and was for 2016.
More information in relation to the 2016 annual bonus is strongly supported by shareholders, with more than 97% of the votes included on page 70.
However, in summary based on the Companys in favour of it.
In accordance with the applicable legislation, we are performance in 2016, the Executive Directors earned bonuses of required to put the Policy to shareholders at the 2017 AGM, and in 100% of salary - more information is given on page 70. preparing to do so the Committee reviewed the Policy and thought through its appropriateness for the Company going forward.
The performance period for the first awards granted under our new LTIP approved at the 2014 AGM ended on 31 December 2016.
Two Our revised Directors Remuneration Policy criteria were applied to these awards, 50% being a performance Having considered the Companys strategy, and carried out a review condition based on TSR growth compared to the FTSE SmallCap of the remuneration arrangements currently in place, we believe the and 50% being growth in UEPS.
Following an assessment of the existing remuneration framework continues to effectively support performance conditions, the awards vested at 100% - more the delivery of the business strategy and the continued creation of information is given on page 70. shareholder value.
Therefore, we are not proposing any structural changes to our Policy, however we propose to modify some elements Our usual practice is to review Executive Directors salaries on an of the Policy to support the business needs and succession planning annual basis, with increases typically in line with the increases over the next three years.
awarded to the wider workforce.
For 2017, we are following this principle and Executive Director salary increases are summarised on I am delighted to report that since our current Policy was approved page 67. three years ago the Company has grown in terms of scale and complexity, both in the UK and internationally.
This has impacted our During 2016 the scope of Mark Peglers role was significantly results and value very positively, moving from a market capitalisation increased as well as his role of Group Finance Director, he took on full of circa 430 million in May 2014 to circa 942 million in December managerial and operational responsibility for the UK Utilities division 2016, and we are very pleased to now be part of the FTSE 250. comprising Asset International Limited, Birtley Group Limited, Barkers Engineering Limited, Lionweld Kennedy Flooring Limited Recognising this growth, we realise there are certain shareholder and the recently acquired Technocover Limited which represent in expectations of us and we have accounted for these in our proposals.
aggregate approximately 20% of the Groups total revenue and EBIT.
We plan to include deferral in our annual bonus arrangements, We consulted with a number of our shareholders prior to increasing as well as a post vesting holding period in our long term incentive Marks salary to 335,000 in July 2016 in recognition of this increase plans.
In addition, we are also increasing shareholding requirements in responsibilities.
significantly for our Executive Directors, from 100% to 200% of base salary.
We believe this will contribute further to robust shareholder The Non-executive Chairmans fee has been increased by alignment.
approximately 3% with effect from 1 January 2017.
Details on other Non-executive fees are set out on pages 73 and 76.
We have formally introduced malus and clawback into both the annual bonus and long term incentive plans.
In addition, for new Executive Directors, we will be re-setting our pension arrangements to take into account the alignment with the wider workforce.
On page 68, we have summarised how our Policy supports the Groups strategic drivers.
The proposed Policy changes are summarised on page 77, and the full Policy is on pages 77 to 84. www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 67 Looking ahead to 2017 In 2017 we will apply the new Policy.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the 2017 AGM, our approach to remuneration for Executive Directors will be as follows: Salary Executive Directors salaries will be increased by 3%, in line with the range of increases awarded to the wider workforce: 2016 Salary 2017 Salary Derek Muir 478,500 493,000 Mark Pegler 335,000 345,100 Following the increase to reflect additional responsibilities.
Bonus The maximum award for 2017 will remain at 100% of salary, subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions based on growth in UEPS, profit, operating margin and ROIC with equal weightings.
Any bonus earned will be paid in cash, but in line with the new Policy clawback provisions will apply.
LTIP 2017 awards will be limited to 125% of salary.
A two year holding period will apply in respect of any shares that vest.
Performance measures will continue to be based on UEPS growth and relative TSR with equal weightings.
However, as the Company is now part of the FTSE 250, the comparator group for the purpose of the TSR element will be the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts and financial services companies.
Shareholding In accordance with the new Policy, the shareholding guideline will be increased to 200% of salary for Executive Directors.
guidelines Recovery The LTIP and annual bonus will be subject to pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback provisions, which have been provisions formally included in the new Policy.
I hope you find this Directors Remuneration Report helpful in explaining our approach to Executive remuneration and how that approach supports and reflects our performance.
I would be delighted to answer any questions that you might have, and hope you will be supportive of our new Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Annette Kelleher Chair, Remuneration Committee 8 March 2017 www.
