Governance Report 77 Remuneration Policy Report Directors remuneration policy report not audited This part of the Report sets out the Directors remuneration policy, which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, shall take binding effect from the close of that meeting.
The policy has been determined by the Companys Remuneration Committee.
Information on how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the policy for the current financial year is set out in the Annual Report on remuneration.
The Companys Directors Remuneration Policy was first approved at the 2014 AGM with over 97% votes in favour of the policy and took effect from the close of that meeting.
The new policy set out below will, subject to shareholder approval, apply from the close of the 2017 AGM.
There is no substantial change to the policy or overall remuneration structure.
The changes proposed finesse the current policy and are intended to ensure that the Company has sufficient flexibility to support the business needs, retention and recruitment over the next three years.
In summary, the changes made in the proposed policy as compared to the Policy approved at the 2014 AGM are set out below.
Flexibility has been added to increase the annual bonus opportunity from 100% of salary to 125% of salary and the annual LTIP opportunity from 100% of salary to 150% of salary notwithstanding this flexibility, the annual bonus opportunity for 2017 will remain at 100% of salary and LTIP awards for 2017 will be granted at the level of 125% of salary: Where a bonus opportunity in excess of 100% of salary is offered, a two year deferral will apply to a proportion of the bonus of up to 20% of the bonus earned : Where an LTIP opportunity in excess of 100% of salary is offered including as regards the 2017 awards, a two year holding period will apply to any vested shares: Once the annual LTIP opportunity awarded increases above 100% of salary, the shareholding guideline applied to the Executive Directors will increase to 200% of salary: We have formally included pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback in the policy for both annual bonus and LTIP awards: and We have reduced the maximum pension contribution or cash allowance for any newly appointed Executive Director to 20% of salary.
Other minor amendments have been made to the policy as a consequence of the changes referred to above or to aid its operation.
Policy table for Directors Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics to strategy Base salary To recruit and Normally reviewed annually and fixed for twelve Ordinarily salary increases will not Not applicable.
exceed the range of salary increases Directors.
awarded to other employees in Salaries are determined by the Remuneration the Group in percentage of salary Provides fixed Committee taking into account a range of terms.
However, salary increases remuneration factors, which may include but are not limited to: may be above this level in certain for the Executive the size and scope of the role: circumstances as required, for Directors, which individual and Group performance: example to reflect: reflects the the range of salary increases in percentage individuals increase in scope or responsibility: terms applied to the wider workforce: experience and performance in role: or total organisational salary budgets: and the size and scope an Executive Director being moved pay levels for comparable roles in companies of the Executives to market positioning over time.
of a similar size and complexity.
No maximum salary opportunity Any salary increases may be implemented over has been set out in this policy report such time as the Remuneration Committee to avoid setting expectations for deems appropriate.
Benefits To recruit and Executive Directors are entitled to various Whilst the Remuneration Committee Not applicable.
retain Executive benefits, including but not limited to, has not set an absolute maximum Directors.
membership of the Groups healthcare on the level of benefits Executive scheme, personal accident insurance, ill health, Directors receive, the value of Ensures the life assurance and car or equivalent cash benefits is set at a level which the overall package is allowance.
is appropriately positioned against Other benefits may be provided based on Participation in the companies of a similar size and individual circumstances.
Such benefits may SAYE promotes complexity in the relevant market and include but are not limited to expatriate, housing, staff alignment at rates competitive in the area of life, relocation allowances or overseas tax support.
with the Group accident and health insurance.
and a sense of The SAYE is a HM Revenue & Customs approved SAYE scheme contribution as ownership.
monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase permitted in accordance with the of shares at a discount as permitted by the relevant tax legislation.
applicable legislation currently up to a maximum discount of 20%.
SAYE options may be exercised in the event of a change of control to the extent permitted by the rules of the scheme, which do not provide discretion for the Remuneration Committee in respect of the treatment on change of control.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 78 Remuneration Policy Report continued Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics to strategy Pension To recruit and The Group may make payment either into a Contribution rates or cash allowance Not applicable.
retain Executive defined contribution plan or as a separate cash are up to a maximum of 25% of base Directors.
salary for current Executive Directors.
To provide Group contributions or cash allowances are For any newly appointed executive post-retirement determined as a percentage of base salary and director, the maximum contribution benefits and set at a level which the Remuneration Committee rate or cash allowance would be up reward sustained, considers to be appropriately positioned against to a maximum 20% of base salary.
long-term comparable roles in companies of a similar size The Company closed, with effect from contribution to the and complexity.
October 2011, its defined benefits performance of pension scheme to future accrual.
D W Muir who is a deferred member will continue to receive benefits only in accordance with the terms of this scheme.
Annual bonus Rewards the Performance measures and targets are The maximum bonus opportunity is up The bonus will be based achievement of reviewed and set annually by the Remuneration to 125% of base salary.
on the achievement of annual financial Committee.
targets related to key However, for 2017, the maximum targets and business objectives, with Bonus pay out is determined by the opportunity will be 100% of base or the delivery the performance measures Remuneration Committee after the year salary.
of strategic and respective weightings end, based on audited performance, where individual each year dependent on the appropriate, against those targets.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion Financial performance to amend the bonus pay out should any measures may include, for formulaic outputs not produce an appropriate example: result for either the Executive Directors or the Company, taking account of overall business measures based on performance.
underlying earnings per share: Where an annual bonus opportunity of more budgeted profit: than 100% of base salary applies, up to 20% of operating margins: or the bonus earned will be delivered in the form of return on capital.
shares in the Company, deferred for a period of two years.
Deferral of any bonus is subject to a At least 50% of bonus will be fide minimis limit of 5,000. based on financial measures.
No more than 25% of the At its discretion, the Remuneration Committee bonus opportunity will be may award dividend equivalents to reflect based on individual objectives.
dividends that would have been paid over the deferral period on shares subject to deferred The Remuneration Committee bonuses.
These dividend equivalents may be will determine an appropriate paid in cash or shares and may assume the vesting schedule for each reinvestment of dividends.
Deferred bonus awards will vest in the event of a For financial measures, up change of control.
to 60% of the maximum opportunity will be earned for Malus and clawback provisions apply to the target performance and 100% annual bonus as described below this table.
There is usually straight line vesting between these performance points.
For strategic and individual performance measures, bonus will be earned between 0% and 100% of the opportunity based on the Remuneration Committees assessment of the extent to which the relevant measure has been achieved.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 79 Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics to strategy Long-Term Incentivises LTIP awards are granted under the 2014 The annual LTIP maximum opportunity Awards vest subject to the Incentive Executive Long Term Incentive Plan approved by is 150% of base salary in respect of any achievement of performance Plan LTIP Directors to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
measures assessed over the achieve higher performance period normally The Remuneration Committee may grant awards However, for 2017, the maximum returns for three financial years.
The as conditional share awards, nil cost share opportunity will be 125% of base shareholders over performance measures options or forfeitable shares or such other form salary.
a longer time are reviewed annually to as has the same economic effect.
Shares subject to a tax qualifying frame.
ensure they remain relevant Awards are typically granted annually and option granted as part of an approved and aligned to the Groups A clawback vesting is subject to achievement of performance LTIP award are not taken into account strategy.
applies to measures normally over at least three years.
for the purposes of this limit because, unvested awards Performance measures will as referred to in the column under the Where an award is granted in excess of 100% of enabling the be based on financial metrics, heading Operation, the unapproved salary, vested shares are ordinarily subject to an Company to and or share price growth LTIP option is scaled back to reflect additional two year holding period before they mitigate risk.
related metrics, and or the gain made on the exercise of the are released to the Executive Directors so that strategic metrics.
they can exercise the award and acquire them.
For 2017, the performance Unvested LTIP awards will vest and be released measures and weightings early on a change of control or other relevant will be: events, taking into account the extent to which 50% based on UEPS the performance conditions have been satisfied performance: and and pro-rating to reflect the proportion of the 50% based on relative performance period that has elapsed, although total shareholder return the Remuneration Committee has discretion not TSR.
Vested LTIP awards which are subject to a holding period are For achievement of the released, to the extent vested, in the event of a threshold level of performance change of control.
LTIP awards may also vest and the minimum level of be released early in good leaver circumstances performance for vesting as shown on page 83. to occur up to 25% of the maximum opportunity will At its discretion the Remuneration Committee vest for each element.
For may award dividend equivalents to reflect achievement of maximum dividends that would have been paid over the performance which is the vesting period and, if relevant, holding period on highest level of performance shares that vest.
These dividend equivalents may that results in any vesting be paid in cash or shares and may assume the 100% of the maximum reinvestment of dividends.
opportunity will vest: there is Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP usually straight line vesting as described below this table.
between these performance The Remuneration Committee may, at its points.
discretion, structure awards as approved LTIP Where an option under the awards comprising both approved tax qualifying ESOS is granted as part of options granted under the Executive Share an Approved LTIP award, the Option Scheme ESOS and an LTIP award.
same performance condition Approved LTIP awards enable the participant applies to the ESOS option as and the Company to benefit from tax qualifying applies to the LTIP award.
option treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to the participant.
The approved LTIP awards consist of a tax qualifying option and an LTIP award with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the tax qualifying option.
Other than to enable the grant of 30,000 in value of HMRC approved options as part of an approved LTIP award, the Company will not grant awards to Executive Directors under the ESOS.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 80 Remuneration Policy Report continued Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics to strategy Shareholding Promotes Each Executive Director is required to hold shares Not applicable.
guidelines alignment to acquired through the LTIP after sales to cover shareholders tax until the value of their total shareholding is interests and equal to 200% of their annual base salary.
Vested shares subject to awards under the LTIP which are subject to a holding period count towards the shareholding requirement on a net of assumed tax basis.
Shares subject to LTIP awards and deferred bonus awards which are capable of exercise count towards the limit on a net of assumed tax basis.
Chairman Fees are set Fees are reviewed periodically and are Fees are subject to an overall cap as Not applicable.
and Nonat a level that determined by the Board.
set out in the Companys Articles of executive reflects market Association from time to time.
The fee structure is as follows: Director fees conditions and Fees are based on the time the Chairman is paid a single consolidated are sufficient to commitment and responsibilities of fee: attract individuals the role.
the Non-executive Directors are paid a basic with appropriate fee plus additional fees for Chairmanship of Fees are appropriately positioned knowledge and a Committee: against comparable roles in companies experience.
the Senior Independent Director also of a similar size and complexity in the receives an additional fee in respect of this relevant market.
role: and fees may be paid wholly or partly in shares.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups share incentive plans nor do they receive any pension contributions.
Non-executive Directors may be eligible to benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs or other benefits that may be appropriate.
Recovery provisions Annual bonus and LTIP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions as set out below.
For up to two years following the determination of an annual bonus, the Remuneration Committee may require a participant to repay any cash bonus paid and or may reduce or cancel any deferred bonus award granted in the event of: i a material misstatement in the Groups financial results: or ii the Remuneration Committee reasonably determining that the participant has been guilty of gross misconduct.
Before the vesting of an LTIP award, the Remuneration Committee may decide to reduce or cancel the award in the event of: i a material error in or misstatement of the Groups results: ii information coming to light which, had it been known, would have affected the award or vesting decision: or iii reputational damage to the Group.
For up to two years following the vesting of an LTIP award the Remuneration Committee may reduce or cancel the award for example if it remains unexercised and subject to a holding period or require a repayment in respect of shares acquired in the event of: i a material misstatement in the Groups financial results for any year in the performance period for the relevant award: or ii the Remuneration Committee reasonably determining that the participant has been guilty of gross misconduct.
Explanation of chosen performance measures and how targets are set Performance measures have been selected that reflect the Groups strategy.
Stretching performance targets are set each year for the annual bonus and LTIP awards.
In setting these stretching performance targets the Remuneration Committee will take into account a number of different reference points such as the Groups business plans and strategy.
The Remuneration Committee considers that underlying EPS and profit before tax are closely aligned to the Groups key performance metrics and, in conjunction with the other annual bonus performance metrics, provide a balanced measurement of performance that encourages sustainable growth.
The UEPS and TSR performance conditions attaching to the LTIP align managements objectives to those of shareholders and reward the delivery of year on year growth and delivery of value to shareholders.
For the relative TSR performance condition there will be no vesting for performance below median compared to the comparator group.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the performance targets and measures where it considers it appropriate to do so.
For example, to reflect changes in the strategy or structure of the business or in prevailing market conditions and to assess performance on a fair and consistent basis from year to year.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 81 Operation of share plans The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to operate the Companys share plans in accordance with their rules, including the ability to adjust awards in the event of a variation of capital or other relevant corporate event, and settle awards in cash.
Differences in the Groups policy for the remuneration of employees generally The Group aims to provide a remuneration package that is market competitive in the employees jurisdiction of employment and which: is appropriate to attract, retain, motivate and reward, without paying more than necessary: is fairly and consistently applied: and includes an element of incentive to share in the financial success of the Group through: annual bonuses, based upon the performance of individual business units, executive share options and a UK SAYE scheme, all of which are aligned to the strategic objectives and performance of the Group.
Illustrative performance scenarios for 2017 all 000s Derek Muir Mark Pegler 2,000 1,400 1,229k 1,800 1,775k 1,200 1,600 35% 35% 1,000 1,400 1,200 768k 800 1,116k 14% 28% 1,000 14% 28% 600 26% 800 26% 453k 666k 600 400 100% 60% 37% 100% 60% 37% 400 200 200 0 0 Minimum Performance in line with Maximum Minimum Performance in line with Maximum performance expectations performance performance expectations performance Base salary, benets and pension Annual Bonus LTIP Base salary, benets and pension Annual Bonus LTIP The illustrative performance charts above are based on the proposed remuneration policy as set out on pages 77 to 84.
In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Minimum Consists of total fixed pay i. e. base salary, benefits and pension.
000s Base salary is the latest salary effective at 1 January 2017.
CEO - 666 Taxable benefits as per single figure table for the year ended 31 December 2016.
FD - 453 Pension is based on the policy set out in the future policy table and base salary effective at 1 January 2017.
In line with expectations Consists of: 000s Total fixed pay, as set out above.
CEO - 1,116 Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for target performance i. e. 60% of base salary based on a FD - 768 maximum potential for 2017 of 100% of base salary.
LTIP pays out at 25% of maximum for threshold vesting i. e. 31.25% of base salary based on a maximum for 2017 of 125% of base salary.
Maximum Consists of: 000s Total fixed pay, as set out above.
CEO - 1,775 Full pay out of annual bonus i. e. 100% of base salary.
FD - 1,229 Full vesting of LTIP awards i. e. 125% of base salary.
com | Stock Code HILS Total remuneration 000 Total remuneration 000 Governance Report 82 Remuneration Policy Report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration The objective of this Policy is to allow the Remuneration Committee to offer remuneration packages which: facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre to develop and deliver the business strategy and shareholder value: reflect the key principles of the Groups wider remuneration philosophy: and seek to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and not to pay more than is appropriate.
Typically the individual will be transitioned onto a remuneration package that is consistent with the policy set out above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to make remuneration decisions or include other remuneration components or awards which are outside the policy elements set out on pages 77 to 80, where it considers it necessary.
However, this discretion is not uncapped, in determining appropriate remuneration arrangements: the Remuneration Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments: the quantum of variable remuneration will be limited as set out below: the quantum and structure of the package on offer will be determined taking into account that for similar positions in the market: and the package will be determined having due regard to the experience of the candidate and the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The following elements may also be considered by the Remuneration Committee for inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director: Compensation for forfeited awards The Remuneration Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to compensate on leaving a previous employer the candidate for the forfeiture of any award entered into with a previous employer.
In determining any such buy-out the Remuneration Committee will consider all the relevant factors regarding the forfeited arrangements which may include the likelihood of the awards vesting should the external candidate have remained in their previous employment, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would have vested.
Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those remuneration arrangements forfeited.
Where considered appropriate, buy-out awards will be subject to forfeiture or clawback on early departure.
Initial incentive awards Subject to the overall maximum variable remuneration limit set out below and to the overall plan LTIP limits set-out under the policy elements on page 79, incentive awards may be granted within the first twelve months of appointment above the normal maximum annual award opportunity set out on page 79.
The Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance targets and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not achieved.
The Remuneration Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and any deferral arrangements or holding period applying to the annual bonus and LTIP if the circumstances of the recruitment merit such an alteration: the rationale will be clearly explained in a subsequent Directors Remuneration Report.
Maximum variable remuneration The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded is 275% of base salary excluding buy-out awards consisting of 125% annual bonus and 150% LTIP.
Service contracts The Remuneration Committees policy is for service contracts for new Executive Directors to be capable of termination by giving up to twelve months notice and up to twelve months notice from the Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee would seek to implement any share awards referred to in this section under the Companys existing share plans.
However, in connection with the recruitment of an Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may implement a new arrangement in accordance with paragraph 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules which permits the making of a long-term incentive award to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to the original terms.
Where necessary, the Group will pay appropriate relocation costs and the Remuneration Committee will seek to ensure that no more than necessary is paid.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-executive Director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 83 Service contracts and loss of office payments The Policy on Executive Director service contracts and payment for loss of office is summarised below: Notice period for termination Twelve months by the Company Notice period for termination Not less than six months by the employee Within ninety days of a By the Company twelve months change of control By the Executive Director ninety days Payment in lieu of notice Base salary, pension contributions and benefits for the duration of the notice period.
Other incentives The Remuneration Committee also has discretion to incorporate payments under the performance-linked elements of the package under good leaver scenarios.
If the Executive Director leaves during the annual bonus performance year, a bonus payment may be made at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Typically for good leavers, bonus amounts as determined by the Remuneration Committee will be pro-rated for time in service during the bonus year and will be, subject to performance, paid at the usual time, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion not to apply time pro-rating and to accelerate the payment of bonuses in appropriate circumstances.
Where bonus deferral would otherwise apply, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to pay the whole of the bonus for the year of cessation and prior year in cash: Under the Companys LTIP: - If a participant leaves as a good leaver before an award has vested, that award will ordinarily continue until the ordinary vesting date, when the extent of vesting will be determined by reference to the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to vest the award sooner.
The extent to which the award vests will ordinarily be reduced to reflect the proportion of the performance period for which the Executive Director was employed, but the Remuneration Committee has discretion not to apply this proportionate reduction.
Where the award is subject to a holding period, it will ordinarily be released to the participant on the earlier of the ordinary release date and the second anniversary of the date of termination, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to release the award sooner.
- If a participant leaves for any reason other than summary dismissal, in which case the award will lapse after an award has vested but before it has been released i. e. if an award is subject to a holding period and the participant leaves during that holding period, the award will ordinarily be released to him on the ordinary release date, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to release the award sooner.
Where a deferred bonus award is granted, if the participant leaves as a good leaver during the deferral period, the award will ordinarily continue and be released at the ordinary release date, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to release the award at the date of cessation.
For the purposes of the LTIP and any deferred bonus award, good leaver means cessation due to death, injury, ill-health, redundancy, or any other circumstance that the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate.
Were an award to be made in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2. then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the grant.
Other payments In appropriate circumstances, other payments may be made in the event of a termination of an Executive Directors employment in respect of, for example, accrued holiday and legal and outplacement fees.
SAYE options may be exercised on termination of employment to the extent permitted by the rules of the scheme, which do not provide discretion for the Remuneration Committee in respect of the treatment on termination.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 84 Remuneration Policy Report continued Appointments for Non-executive Directors are governed by letters of engagement.
Under the terms of their engagement, the notice period to be given by the Non-executive Directors to the Company is three months and the Company is obliged to give the same length of notice.
Discretion is retained to terminate with or without due notice or pay any payment in lieu of notice dependent on what is considered to be in the best interests of the Company in the particular circumstances.
Where the Remuneration Committee retains discretion, as outlined above, it will be used to provide flexibility in certain situations, taking into account the particular circumstance of the Directors departure and recent performance of the Company.
Statement of considerations elsewhere in the Company When setting the policy for Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee has regard to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere within the Group, although employees are not formally consulted on Directors remuneration policy.
This includes consideration of: salary increases for the general employee population: overall spend on annual bonus: participation levels in the annual bonus, long term incentive and share option plans: Company-wide benefits including pension offerings: and any other relevant factors as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee takes into account ad-hoc information as provided to it from time to time.
Discretion and existing contractual arrangements The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy, set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the policy came into effect provided, in the case of a payment agreed after the 2014 AGM that it is in line with the policy approved at the 2014 AGM: or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Company is committed to ongoing dialogue and seeks shareholder views ahead of making significant changes to its remuneration policies.
Annette Kelleher Chair, Remuneration Committee 8 March 2017 www.
