Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration report Summary of components of Executive Directors remuneration The table below summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures to strategy Period and maximum limits Basic salary To reflect the Usually reviewed Individual pay is determined by the Committee taking particular skills annually, with into account the role, responsibilities, performance and experience any changes and experience of the individual and market data on of an individual normally taking comparable roles.
Consideration is also given to overall and to provide a effect from business performance and pay and employment competitive base 1 July each year.
conditions elsewhere in the Company when salary compared determining any increases to base salary levels for with similar roles in the Executive Directors.
When reviewing salary increases, the Committee also takes into account the impact of any increase to base salaries on the total remuneration package.
Details of the current salaries of the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance The annual bonus Annual Annual bonuses are determined by reference to related bonus is designed to determined performance against a mix of customer, commercial drive and reward after the and personal objectives.
Before any bonus is payable the short-term year end a minimum level of both customer and financial operating performance must be achieved.
performance of Bonuses are based on Group performance and, if the Company relevant, the specific territory for which an Executive and encourage Director is responsible.
Individual performance accounts the delivery of for no more than 20% of the overall bonus opportunity.
consistently good customer The maximum potential quantum is 100% of salary and outcomes.
assuming their personal objectives are met in full, the normal on-target bonus is 60% of basic salary.
Bonuses are payable in cash but may be deferred into shares under the matching element of the LTIP.
HomeServe plc | 63 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration report continued Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures to strategy Period and maximum limits Long-term To drive long-term Three years Awards of performance and matching shares are incentives delivery of the granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan which was Groups objectives, approved by shareholders in 2008. to align Directors The maximum limit is 200% of salary for performance interests with those share awards currently, awards of 150% of salary are of the Companys made to the Executive Directors and a maximum 2:1 shareholders and match on voluntary investment of bonus into shares.
to encourage The maximum amount of bonus that may be invested exceptional is set at 75% of the maximum bonus potential i. e. 75% performance.
If the bonus earned is less than 25% of salary, then the executive may invest the equivalent of 25% of salary, from their own money, in shares to receive a matching award.
In determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
Both performance and matching awards are subject to the same performance condition which was relative Total Shareholder Return in FY15 subject to satisfactory underlying earnings performance.
Performance is measured over a performance period of at least three years.
Changes to operation in FY16 and FY17 An Earnings Per Share performance condition was reintroduced for performance and matching share awards in FY16 and this will also be applied in FY17.
Performance awards were granted at the policy maximum of 200% in FY16 and will be again in FY17.
Further details are provided later in this report.
Pension To provide benefits N A Richard Harpin participates in the Water Companies comparable with Pension Scheme a defined benefit scheme which is similar roles in closed to new members.
The other Executive Directors similar companies.
receive a 20% contribution to the HomeServe Money Plan a defined contribution scheme.
The key features of these schemes are set out beneath this policy table.
Retirement benefits under both schemes are restricted by a notional earnings cap 133,324 for FY16.
An unapproved pension contribution equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the notional cap is paid annually.
Executives may choose to have this amount paid directly into their pension or may receive it as cash.
As an alternative to the above arrangements, the Committee may also permit the pension allowance up to 20% of salary to be taken solely as a cash allowance.
64 | HomeServe plc Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration report Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures to strategy Period and maximum limits Other benefits Provides a N A Other benefits comprise a fully expensed car or cash competitive alternative, fuel allowance, private health cover for the package of benefits individual, partner and dependant children, death in to assist with service benefits up to 5 x salary and permanent health recruitment and insurance for members of the HomeServe Money Plan.
There is no maximum limit on the value of the benefits provided but the Committee monitors the total cost of the benefit provision.
Save As You To encourage N A The Executive Directors may participate in the Groups Earn Scheme employee share Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Scheme is subject to ownership.
limits on the level of individual participation as set by HMRC.
No performance conditions are attached to this Scheme.
Chairman and To attract N A Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the Non-Executive and retain NonBoard.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by Directors fees Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee taking into account the of the right calibre.
views of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman excludes himself from such discussions.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically and are set to reflect the responsibilities and time commitment of the role and the experience of the individual.
Fee levels are set by reference to rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The fees for the Non-Executive directors comprise a basic Board fee, with additional fees paid for chairing a Committee or for the Senior Independent Directorship.
The Chairman receives an all encompassing fee for his role.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reflect a substantial increase in time commitment.
The fees are paid monthly in cash.
