Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 67 Remuneration Committee Report Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied...
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
MEETING ATTENDANCE INTRODUCTION BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN The Committee meets at least three times a year and at any other On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Report of such time as the Chairman of the Committee requires.
Only the the Remuneration Committee for 2016, prepared in compliance attendance of members of this committee is shown in the table with the reporting requirements of the Large and Medium-sized below, although other Directors, where appropriate, have often also Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
We have restructured attended at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
our report this year to support ease of use and to highlight the key areas that we believe will be of primary focus to the reader.
As such, pay outcomes for the year, together with details of our Attendance No.
of meetings implementation of policy in 2017, are provided in the main body of Tiffany Hall Chairman 5 5 the report.
All relevant supporting information required under the reporting regulations now sits in an Appendix to the report.
Mark Allen 5 5 Andrew Cripps 4 5 Executive pay is currently subject to increased levels of media and political scrutiny.
Over the past year, the Committee kept Geoff Drabble 5 5 fully abreast of the evolving views of shareholders on pay and in Richard Pennycook 2 2 particular the recent UK Government consultation on corporate governance.
The associated themes have provided important Michael Wemms 4 5 context to our discussions and decision making process.
Our continuing intention is to follow a strategically aligned approach Andrew Cripps was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 15 February 2016 due to ill health.
to remuneration that reflects Howdens business model, remains Richard Pennycook ceased being a member of the Committee following in line with best practice and maintains a continued strong link his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 5 May 2016. between pay and performance.
Michael Wemms was unable to attend the Board meeting on 3 November 2016 due to a conflict with another appointment.
One of the emerging external themes that the Committee has been mindful of over the last year has been the increased focus by In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the shareholders on the alignment of approach between Executives Committees terms of reference, during the year the Remuneration and the wider workforce.
The Committee and the management Committee consisted wholly of independent Non-Executive team are focused on ensuring a fair approach to pay across Directors.
Subject to successful annual re-election to the Board, Howdens.
We are regularly updated on wider workforce pay, and appointments to the Remuneration Committee are for a period of we make our decisions relating to the remuneration of senior three years, which may be extended by the Committee provided Executives in the context of reward across the business.
An the Director remains independent.
aligned approach to rewarding performance is a central part of the Companys ethos, with monthly bonuses paid to our depot staff based on profitability measures.
This plays a key role in embedding our entrepreneurial culture and supporting the engagement, motivation and fantastic performance of our employees.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE www.
com investors governance remuneration index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance % 7 % 6 5.
6 9 9 R P e o p l 68 Remuneration Committee Report continued 2016 reward outcomes 2016 was the first year of operation of our revised remuneration It speaks to the level of stretch in our incentive targets that, policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, and despite this sector leading performance, the outcomes under the applies for three years from that date.
This policy is summarised annual bonus fell slightly short of target for the profit element, and on page 70, and is available to view in full on our website at just above target for the cash element, resulting in a payment of www.
com investors governance 72% of base salary to our Executive Directors.
Over the three year period of the 2014 Co-Investment Plan cycle, Howdens again delivered strong growth over the year.
Group our PBT has grown by 20.6% p. a. demonstrating exceptional longsales increased 7.1% on 2015, while maintaining a similar level term performance.
This award will therefore vest at maximum, of gross margin, 64.2%.
The UK referendum on EU membership with two matching shares being released for each originally has, however, created a number of challenges for us, resulting in invested share.
One award from the Co-Investment Plan and negative volume growth in the second half of the year and having one award from the Performance Share Plan, which replaced the an unfavourable impact on foreign exchange rates.
We believe that Co-Investment Plan in the last policy review, remain in-flight.
Both despite the current market conditions it is important to continue awards require 8% per annum PBT growth to achieve threshold our strategic improvements in capacity and capability.
We have vesting and 20% per annum growth to achieve maximum vesting.
therefore continued to invest in manufacturing, warehousing, The CEO and Deputy CEO and CFO have been awarded salary distribution, depot operations and organisational development increases of 1.6% for 2016.
This is in line with inflation, and below across the Group.
the increases awarded to the wider workforce.
It forms the first Given the capital expenditure associated with these investments, increase received by the CEO in four years.
around 65m, and the impact of foreign exchange pressures, the 7.9% increase in PBT and 268.0m cash flow delivered in 2016 represent very strong performance for the Company.
This has enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of 7.4p, resulting in a full year dividend of 10.7p an increase of 8% on 2015.
For Against 2016 AGM VOTING OUTCOMES i c o y r t Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 2017 incentives In line with the commitment we made to investors ahead of requiring 3 year growth of 15% p. a.
In determining this range the introduction of our new policy in 2016, we have reviewed the Committee made reference to current analyst expectations the performance measures underlying our plans.
The Board which are positioned close to threshold performance, and to continues to believe that a focus on PBT across our incentives maintaining a maximum level of performance which remains remains appropriate, particularly given the challenges we will face positioned between the upper quartile and upper decile levels in the coming year.
It is our primary performance indicator and is of performance required by our peers in the FTSE 250. directly aligned with the value we deliver to shareholders.
2017 The Committee was conscious of the importance of maintaining the PSP awards will therefore continue to be based on PBT growth, alignment between pay and performance, and has therefore made a with the annual bonus based on a combination of PBT and cash reduction to the maximum award level for 2017 to reflect the reduction flow performance.
Awards for 2017 have been reduced by We have reviewed the targets for 2017 incentives in light of the 50% of salary, such that grants to Executive Directors under the PSP in much tougher economic and cost pressures anticipated over the 2017 will have a maximum opportunity of 220% of salary.
coming period, as well as the investments we intend on making We intend to revisit the appropriate measures, targets and the across the business.
opportunity level under the PSP ahead of 2018 awards being Howdens has a track record of strong performance with an made as the business continues to evolve.
average profit growth over the last five years of 16.6% p. a. and as I am pleased to report that the external Board evaluation conducted a result has historically set sector leading performance ranges.
during the year concluded that the Remuneration Committee is The 2015 and 2016 grants under our long-term plans had a well run, and that it had handled the change in Remuneration threshold to maximum growth range of 8%20% p. a. policy in a most efficient and effective way.
It also confirmed that As highlighted elsewhere in this report, the business is now facing the Committee receives good support from the Interim Group HR substantial headwinds over the next period.
To maintain the Director, the Company Secretary and its external advisors.
appropriate level of stretch in targets, whilst ensuring incentives I hope the information presented in this report enables our continue to be motivating for management to deliver strong shareholders to understand both how we have operated our performance, the Committee has determined that a reduction in remuneration policy over the year and the rationale for our this range is appropriate.
We continue to be committed to an open and We have reduced the range for the 2017 PSP grant such that the transparent dialogue with our investors, and the Committee would level of PBT growth to achieve threshold performance will be 3% welcome any feedback or comments you have on this report or the p. a. at which point 15% of award vests with maximum vesting way in which we implement our remuneration policy.
This report has been structured to support the reader in quickly and easily accessing relevant information.
Main body Page Appendix Page Executive Directors remuneration policy 70 Total pension entitlements 76 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year 76 Executive Directors single figure of remuneration 71 Service contracts Notice period 76 Implementation of Directors policy in 2017 73 Loss of office payments or payments to past directors 77 Non-Executive Directors single figure of remuneration 74 External appointments 77 Our Corporate performance and remuneration 75 Director shareholdings 77 T he Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting and, therefore, does not form part of the Remuneration Advisors to the Committee 78 Report for the purposes of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2017.
How to use this report Within this Remuneration Committee Report we have used colour coding to denote different elements of remuneration.
The colours are: Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Deferred bonus LTIP Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
