compliance, regulatory programmes and growth.
Furthermore, Directors Remuneration Report it is on its way to restoring profitability in Mexico.
In the second half of 2016, it executed a share buy-back worth approximately Page $2.5bn as a way of distributing capital to shareholders.
In 2016, in sterling terms, our share price increased by 23% and the total Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration 153 CommitteeChairman shareholder return was 32%.
Directors remuneration policy 155 Group variable pay pool and risk adjustments Remuneration policy for all employees 156 The Group variable pay pool is used to fund performance-related Annual report on remuneration 159 pay across the Group.
In determining the size of the pool for Additional remuneration disclosures 170 2016, the Committee took into consideration the Groups financial performance, fines, penalties and customer redress All disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report are costs, as well as progress implementing and embedding Global unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Disclosures marked as audited should be considered audited The total value of the pool for 2016 was $3,035m, which was inthe context of financial statements taken as a whole.
In particular, the 2016 pool included the following reductions of: Annual Statement from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman $194m for the fines, penalties and cost of customer redress faced by the Group: and Dear Shareholder, $309m for: The Group Remuneration Committee the Committee is financial performance in certain key areas, in particular, guided by a series of principles.
These are set out in the profit before tax, return on risk-weighted assets and Strategic Report on page 28, but it is worth mentioning a few adjusted jaws: here to help explain our work.
performance against certain metrics in our Group risk To attract and retain talent, remuneration at HSBC must be appetite profile: and competitive.
However, we place a strong emphasis on linking pay to performance.
We particularly emphasise the need for continued work required to address financial crime performance that benefits the Group over the long-term, and compliance issues and the embedding of Global reflects HSBC Values and the highest standards of conduct.
In 2016, we introduced a new remuneration policy for our In addition to the pool adjustments, we reduced variable pay executive Directors.
It reflected feedback from shareholders, awards to certain individuals by $12.1m in aggregate to reflect especially in its introduction of a long-term incentive LTI their involvement in certain notable events and individual award with a three-year forward-looking performance period, a transgressions.
seven-year deferral period, and a reduction in the cash in lieu of Executive Directors remuneration for 2016 pension allowance for the executive Directors.
I believe the new policy achieves strong alignment between the interests of our In line with the policy approved by shareholders, we have executive Directors and shareholders, and the performance reduced the cash in lieu of pension from 50% of base salary to measures for the new LTI award will reward long-term 30% for executive Directors.
This has resulted in fixed pay, sustainable performance.
including allowances, reducing by 7% in 2016.
No increases in fixed pay are proposed for 2017.
We were pleased that the new policy received strong support at our Annual General Meeting 'AGM' in April 2016, with over The 2016 annual incentive scorecard outcome for financial 96% of shareholders voting in favour.
measures was 35.3% for Stuart Gulliver, 30.0% for Iain Mackay and 15.0% for Marc Moses, reflecting their individual This years Remuneration Report shows how the Committee has scorecards and the performance achieved in cost savings, applied the new policy, aligning executive pay with the Groups reductions in RWAs and achievements against our strategic performance, both for the year and against its long-term objectives.
Since establishing the new Financial Crime Risk function in Performance achieved during 2016 July 2016, there has been a significant focus on transition from Reported profit before tax for the year fell 62% to $7.1bn.
a programme of change to business-as-usual financial crime However, on an adjusted basis, excluding significant items and management across all countries, regions and global currency translation differences, profit before tax was $19.3bn, businesses.
But there is more to be done.
The Committee broadly in line with prior-year.
The Group's cost performance exercised its discretion to reduce the Global Standards improved as prior-year initiatives gained traction and assessments for executive Directors down to 65%.
This was substantially offset higher loan impairment charges and based on feedback received from the Monitor, matters arising marginally lower revenues.
from risk and compliance incidents, and a number of unsatisfactory internal audits covering anti-money laundering The Group is now more than a year into implementing the AML and sanctions-related issues.
strategic actions set out in its Investor Update in June 2015.
These aim to improve returns, deliver cost savings, reduce Details of the annual incentive scorecard outcome are provided RWAs, rebuild profitability in Mexico and the US, optimise and on page 161. capture value from our international network, and complete the In line with the new policy, no Group Performance Share Plan implementation of Global Standards programme to help combat GPSP awards were made in respect of the year ended financial crime.
This has resulted in a significant decrease in Measures were incorporated into the 2016 annual incentive the total single figure of remuneration for executive Directors scorecards of the executive Directors to align their paywith when compared with the year ending 31 December 2015. progress against achievement of these objectives.
The new LTI award for our executives, awarded while taking into The Group made strong progress in a number of areas.
It account performance in the financial year ended 31 December reduced RWAs by $143bn in 2016, taking it more than 97% of 2016, is subject to a forward-looking three-year performance the way towards its target for the end of 2017.
It achieved cost period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019 and a seven-year savings of $2.25bn, despite continued investment in HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 153 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report deferral period.
This ensures a significant proportion of shareholders on implementation of the policy in 2017.
The executive Directors pay continues to be deferred.
This, together Committee will also continue to monitor any reform proposed with the fact that the majority of compensation is awarded in for corporate governance and executive pay, and will consider shares, helps ensure it is aligned with the achievement of our any changes that may be required to our approach on long-term strategic objectives, and the long-term interests of remuneration in this regard.
Details of the performance Our annual report on remuneration measures for the LTI award to be granted in 2017 in respect of 2016, and the relevant targets for each measure, are provided The following sections of this Remuneration Report provide anoverview of the policy for executive Directors, which was on page 164. approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, and details of Implementation of policy for 2017 remuneration decisions made for executive Directors in 2016.
This year will be the final one for implementing the strategic The report also covers the application of the 2016 policy to actions set out in the Investor Update.
The 2017 annual other Group employees.
incentive scorecards for the executive Directors are designed As Chairman of the Committee, I hope you will support the todrive delivery against these objectives.
Details of the performance measures for the 2017 annual Finally, I will be retiring as a non-executive Director of the Group incentive scorecards are on page 169.
However, for reasons of and as chairman of this Committee at the conclusion of the commercial sensitivity, the specific targets for each measure 2017 AGM.
I am delighted that Pauline van der Meer Mohr, who will not be disclosed until the end of the 2017 performance is already a member of the Committee, has agreed to succeed period, when performance against the targets will also be me as chairman at that time.
Fees for non-executive Directors were reviewed by the Committee in 2016.
Recognising the growing regulatory responsibilities and time commitment required from our Sam Laidlaw Directors, their fees have been increased with Chairman effect from 1 January 2017.
A travel allowance has also been introduced for non-UK based non-executive Directors to reflect Group Remuneration Committee the additional time commitment required for travel.
The details 21 February 2017 of the increases are provided on page 156.
The Committee will continue to monitor the remuneration arrangements for executive Directors, and meet with our major 154 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 policy can be found on pages 288 to 299 of our Annual Report Directors Remuneration policy and Accounts 2015 and in the Directors' Remuneration Policy Supplement 2016 of this Annual Report and Accounts 2016, The tables below summarise our remuneration policy for which is available in the Investor Relations section of executive and non-executive Directors.
The policy was approved www.
at the AGM on 22 April 2016 and is intended to apply for three performance years until the AGM in 2019.
The full remuneration Remuneration policy summary executive Directors Elements Operation Implementation in 2017 Base salary Paid in cash on a monthly basis.
To attract and retain key talent by being Base salary increases will not exceed 15% in total during the Douglas Flint: 1,500,000 market competitive and rewarding three-year term of the policy.
Stuart Gulliver: 1,250,000 ongoing contribution to role.
Iain Mackay: 700,000 Marc Moses: 700,000 Fixed pay allowance Non-pensionable and paid in shares.
To deliver fixed pay required to reflect Released annually on a pro rata basis over five years, Douglas Flint: Nil the role, skills and experience of the starting from the March immediately following the end of Stuart Gulliver: 1,700,000 Directors and to maintain a competitive the financial year in which the shares were granted.
Iain Mackay: 950,000 total remuneration package for Dividends paid on the vested shares held during the Marc Moses: 950,000 retention of key talent.
Pension Directors receive cash in lieu of a pension equal to 30% of No change from 2016. base salary.
To attract and retain key talent by being market competitive.
Benefits Include, for example, the provision of medical insurance, No change from 2016. income protection insurance, health assessment, life To provide benefits in accordance with assurance, club membership, tax return assistance, car local market practice.
benefit and travel assistance, including any tax due on the benefit.
Additional benefits may also be provided where an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of their time in more than one jurisdiction for business purposes.
Annual incentive Maximum opportunity for annual incentive award is 215% of See page 169 for details of performance base salary.
To drive and reward performance against annual financial, non-financial Performance is measured against an annual scorecard and Shares issued are subject to a retention and personal objectives which are varies by individual.
period of up to one year after vesting.
consistent with the strategy and align On vesting, shares are subject to a minimum retention to shareholder interests.
period of at least six months.
Long-term incentive LTI Maximum opportunity for LTI award is 320% of base salary.
Details of the performance measures and targets for awards to be made in To incentivise sustainable long-term Award is subject to a three-year forward-looking 2017 in respect of 2016 are set out on alignment with shareholder interests.
Performance is measured against a long-term scorecard.
For awards to be made in respect of 60% is based on financial outcomes and 40% is based on 2017, the measures and targets will be non-financial outcome, including risk and strategy-related determined at the end of 2017 for the measures.
performance period commencing on 1 Awards vest in five equal instalments with the first vesting January 2018. on or around the third anniversary of the grant date, and the On vesting, awards are subject to a last vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the retention period of up to one year.
Number of shares to be awarded can Awards are discretionary and subject to malus during the be determined using a share price vesting period and claw-back for a period of seven to discounted for dividend yield.
10 years from the date of award.
Shareholding guideline The shareholding guidelines as a percentage of base salary are: No change from 2016.
To ensure appropriate alignment with Group Chairman: 100% the interest of our shareholders.
Group Chief Executive: 400% Group Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer: 300% Executive Directors are also entitled to participate in all office is detailed online in the Directors Remuneration Policy employee share plans, such as HSBC Sharesave, on the same Supplement 2016. basis as all other employees.
The policy on payment for loss of HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report achieved within five years from 2014 or their appointment if Remuneration policy summary non-executive later.
Directors The Committee has reviewed the fee levels payable to nonNon-executive Directors are not employees and receive a fee for executive Directors and decided an increase will be applied to their services.
The policy for non-executive Directors is to pay: reflect growing regulatory responsibilities and time base fees: and commitment.
A travel allowance of 4,000 will also be further fees for the role of Senior Independent Director introduced for non-UK based non-executive Directors to reflect SID and additional Board duties such as chairmanship or the additional time commitment required for travel.
increases in fees is within the 20% maximum increase during Expenses incurred in performing their roles and any related tax the three-year term of the remuneration policy.
Fees for 2017 due are also reimbursed.
All non-executive Directors have a are detailed below.
shareholding guideline of 15,000 shares, which has to be 2016 fees 2017 fees Category Base fee 95,000 110,000 SID 45,000 54,000 Audit, Risk, Remuneration, Financial System Vulnerabilities andConduct & Values Committees Chairman 50,000 60,000 Member 30,000 30,000 Nomination Committee Chairman 40,000 40,000 Member 25,000 25,000 Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee Chairman 25,000 25,000 Member 15,000 15,000 The Directors biographies are set out on pages 133 to 136, and Service contracts include those directorships provided for under Capital Executive Directors Requirement Directive IV CRD IV.
Non-executive Directors Douglas Stuart Marc Iain Mackay Flint Gulliver Moses Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not Contract date 14 Feb 10 Feb 4 Feb 27 Nov exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their rolling 2011 2011 2011 2014 re-election by shareholders at AGMs.
Non-executive Directors Notice period do not have service contracts, but are bound by letters of Director & HSBC 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months appointment issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings.
There are no obligations in the non-executive Directors letters of Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each executive appointment which could give rise to remuneration payments or Director are available for inspection at HSBC Holdings payments for loss of office.
Consistent with the best interests of the Non-executive Directors current terms of appointment will Group, the Committee will seek to minimise termination expire as follows: payments.
Directors may be eligible for a payment in relation tostatutory rights.
2017 AGM 2018 AGM 2019 AGM 2020 AGM Kathleen Casey Phillip Ameen Henri fide Castries David Nish Laura Cha Joachim Faber Irene Lee Jackson Tai Lord Evans of Weardale John Lipsky Pauline van der Meer Mohr Sam Laidlaw Rachel Lomax Paul Walsh Jonathan Symonds Heidi Miller The mix of fixed and variable pay granted to an employee Remuneration policy for all employees corresponds to the individuals role, local market factors and regulatory requirements.
The variable pay for all material risk The Committee oversees the Groups remuneration policy and takers MRTs is restricted to a maximum of 200% of their fixed itsapplication to the wider employee population.
Individuals are identified as MRTs based on the qualitative Committee periodically reviews the adequacy and effectiveness and quantitative criteria set out in the Regulatory Technical of the policy and ensures that it: Standard EU 604 2014 and additional criteria determined by the meets the commercial requirement to remain competitive: Committee.
The table provides an overview of the different remuneration elements for our employees.
is affordable: allows flexibility in response to prevailing circumstances: is compliant with regulatory requirements: aligns with the long-term interests of our stakeholders: and is consistent with effective risk management.
156 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Component of remuneration Application Fixed pay Attract and retain employees by paying market-competitive pay for the role, skills and experience required by the business.
This may include salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other cash allowances in accordance with local market practices.
These payments are fixed and do not vary with performance.
Pension and benefits Provided in accordance with local market practice.
They include, but are not limited to, the provision of pensions, medical coverage, life insurance, health assessment, tax return preparation, legal fees and relocation allowances.
Annual incentive Awards to drive and reward performance based on annual financial and non-financial measures consistent with the medium-to-long-term strategy, shareholder interests and adherence to HSBC Values.
For MRTs, awards are normally subject to a 40% or 60% deferral, delivered in cash and or shares, subject to a minimum six-month retention period.
From 2016 onwards, the deferral period could be three, five or seven years, depending on the regulatory status of the employee.
Deferred awards are subject to malus.
All awards are subject to claw-back and compliance with local laws.
For all other employees, awards can be in the form of cash and or shares.
Awards above a specified threshold are subject to deferral based on a deferral table.
All deferred awards are subject to malus.
HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees who are required to certify each year that they have not entered into any personal hedging strategies.
HSBC Values play a key role in ensuring the Group remains Link between performance and reward sound and sustainable.
All employees are given a separate Under our remuneration framework, pay decisions are based values-aligned behavioural rating, which informs their eligibility ona number of factors: business results, individual performance for variable pay and influences their variable pay against scorecard objectives and adherence to HSBC Values, determinations.
business principles, policies, procedures and Global Standards.
Regular reviews are undertaken to assess instances of nonAt the end of each performance year, assessment of compliance with risk procedures and expected behaviours.
performance against scorecard objectives, including nonInstances of non-compliance are escalated for consideration financial and risk objectives, forms the basis of remuneration invariable pay decisions, using our adjustment, malus and decisions.
This helps ensure risk management is embedded and claw-back policies see the next section.
forms an integral part of all our activities.
The key features of our remuneration framework that enable us The performance and remuneration of individuals in control to achieve alignment between risk, reward and performance are functions is assessed according to a balanced scorecard of set out below.
objectives specific to the functional role they undertake, to ensure their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they control.
Key feature Application Scorecards Assessment of performance with reference to clear and relevant objectives set within a performance scorecard framework.
Global Standards including risk and compliance measures and conduct, set at a minimum of 25% of the scorecard for Group Management Board members.
Group variable Fines and penalties are automatically included in the Committees definition of profit.
pay pool Performance against metrics in the Group Risk Appetite Statement and Conduct Framework is taken into consideration.
calculation Deferral of Deferral of a significant proportion of variable pay into HSBC shares and or other instruments to tie recipients to the future variable pay performance of the Group and business units.
Malus adjustment Allows cancellation reduction of unvested deferred variable pay awards.
Longer deferral period under PRA Remuneration policy Rules increases the time period over which malus can be applied.
This is in addition to our in-year variable pay adjustments and other disciplinary actions that can be taken under our global consequence management policy.
Claw-back policy Subject to compliance with local labour laws, allows us to recoup reclaim paid awards in certain circumstances as defined by the PRA for a period of up to seven-years from grant can be extended to 10 years for individuals in PRA designated Senior Management Function roles.
Retail wealth We removed commission based sales plans globally for Wealth in 2013 and Retail in 2014. compensation HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 157 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report The following policies help embed values in our remuneration approach to achieving alignment between risk and reward.
structure while ensuring greater global consistency in our Programmes Application Values rating for To ensure performance is judged not only on what is achieved in the short and long term but also on how it is achieved, allemployees which contributes to the sustainability of the Group.
Performance Strong correlation is expected between performance and values.
management No discretionary variable pay for an unacceptable behaviour rating.
2016 focus on moving away from traditional cycle-based performance management towards a culture of everyday performance and development.
Global consequence Introduced to increase consistency in approach and actions taken.
Clear messaging to employees on impact of breaches as part of reward communications through pay statements, management policy manager guidelines, etc..
Positive adjustments To focus on positive behaviours in the context of Global Standards through in-year positive variable pay adjustments.
Global recognition Circa 80% of the global employee population can now access a single HSBC recognition platform to perform values-based programme peer-to-peer recognition.
Includes communication of positive stories on our intranet HSBC Now.
for, the issue in question.
Where possible, an adjustment will Variable pay adjustment, malus and claw-back bemade to current-year variable pay, before the application Where there are instances of conduct breaches, the actions ofmalus, then claw-back.
This is in line with regulatory below can be taken.
The Committee has discretion toapply requirements.
malus and claw-back under the policies it has adopted, taking into consideration an individuals proximity to, and responsibility Type of action Type of variable pay award affected Circumstances where it may apply including, but not limited to Adjustment Current-year variable pay.
Detrimental conduct, including conduct which brings the business into disrepute.
Involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events which have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm to HSBC.
Non-compliance with HSBC Values and other mandatory requirements or policies.
Adjustment Current-year variable pay for Downward override policy was introduced in 2014, based on the under the executive Directors and certain other recommendations received from the independent Monitor as appointed by the US downward senior executives.
override policy A downward adjustment can be applied where there is: insufficient yearly progress in developing an effective AML and sanctions compliance programme: or non-compliance with the DPA and other relevant orders.
In deciding the application and degree of any such downward override toreduce variable pay awards, the Committee considers feedback from the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, the Monitor in relation to cooperation with their review and Legal.
Malus Unvested deferred awards granted in Detrimental conduct, including conduct which brings the business into disrepute.
Past performance being materially worse than originally reported.
Restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements.
Improper or inadequate risk management.
Claw-back Vested or paid awards granted to Participation in, or responsibility for, conduct which results in significant losses.
MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 for Failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety.
Reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would From 2016 onwards, this period may have justified, summary termination of a contract of employment.
be extended to 10years for HSBC or a business unit suffers a material failure of risk management in the employees under the PRAs Senior context ofGroup risk-management standards, policies and procedures.
Manager Regime in the event of ongoing internal regulatory investigation at the end of the sevenyear period.
158 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Activities Annual report on remuneration The Committee met nine times during 2016.
The following is a summary of the Committees key activities during 2016.
A copy Remuneration Committee of the Committees terms of reference can be found on our Details of the roles, responsibility and membership of the website at www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance Committee are set out on page 144.
areinvolved in deciding their own remuneration.
Details of the Committees key activities Month Activities Month Activities Jan Reviewed and approved pay review matters and regulatory Jul Reviewed and approved regulatory filling for 2016. filings.
Received updates on notable events.
Received updates on regulatory changes.
Feb Approved 2015 performance year pay review matters.
Sept Updated on high-priority programmes progress.
Considered progress update on 2015 Monitor Reviewed 2016 performance year pay review matters.
Approved 2015 Directors Remuneration Report and Noted progress updates from 2016 Monitor Strategic Report including new policy for Directors.
Approved Group-wide variable pay deferral policy.
Apr Met with Monitor to discuss incentivisation workstream.
Oct Committee Chairman met with shareholders.
and Considered matters discussed with regulators and reviewed Reviewed 2016 performance year pay review matters.
Received updates on investor guidelines.
Dec Approved 2016 performance year pay matters.
Considered shareholder feedback received on executive Reviewed executive Directors scorecards and pay proposals.
Approved long-term incentive scorecard measures.
Pierre Goad, Group Head of Human Resources Advisers until August 2016 : The Committee received input and advice from different Donna Wong, Acting Group Head of Human Resources advisers on specific topics during 2016.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte from September 2016 : was appointed by the Committee in 2015 as an objective, independent adviser to support the Committee on specific Alexander Lowen, Group Head of Performance and Reward: remuneration matters for executive Directors.
The Committee Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer: made the appointment after considering invited proposals from a number of consultancy firms.
In 2016, the Committee agreed Iain Mackay, Group Finance Director: to extend Deloittes appointment for a further period of one Colin Bell, Group Head of Financial Crime Risk: year.
Deloitte provided benchmarking data on remuneration policy matters and independent advice to the Committee.
The Robert Werner, Former Global Head of Financial Crime Committee may request ad-hoc assistance from Deloitte.
Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer: Ralph Nash, Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance: Deloitte also provided services to the Group, comprising tax compliance and other advisory services.
To ensure the advice John Flint, Chief Executive Retail Banking and Wealth from Deloitte was objective, the Committee required the advice Management: to be independent and distinct from any internal review and Stuart Levey, Chief Legal Officer: and analysis on remuneration policy matters.
The Committee was satisfied the advice provided by Deloitte was objective and Andy Maguire, Group Chief Operating Officer.
Deloitte is a founding member of the The Committee also received feedback and input from the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates Group Risk Committee, the Financial System Vulnerabilities underthe Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration Committee and the Conduct & Values Committee on risk and consulting in the UK.
compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration.
This For 2016, total fees of 168,150 were incurred in relation to its included input from the Financial System Vulnerabilities remuneration advice provided by Deloitte.
This was based on Committee on the implementation and annual assessment of pre-agreed fees and a time and materials basis.
progress on the AML and sanctions compliance programme forthe purposes of the Committees determination on any During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided regular adjustments to be made under the downward override policy.
In addition, the Committee received updates from the following employees as part of their roles with HSBC: HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 159 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Single figure of remuneration The following table shows the single figure total remuneration of each executive Director for 2016, together with comparative figures for 2015.
In this case, the 2016 single figure The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016.
As such, no GPSP total remuneration of the executive Directors for year-on-year award was made for 2016 and the value for 2016 is nil.
comparison would be in 000 7,670 for Stuart Gulliver, 4,069 for Iain Mackay and 4,052 for Marc Moses.
The first LTI award will be made in March 2017, with a performance period ending in 2019.
Vesting of the first Illustration of release profile LTIaward will be included in the single figure table for the The following chart provides an illustrative release profile for financial year ending on 31 December 2019.
Illustration of release profile Fixed pay Released in five equal annual instalments starting from allowance March2017.
Paid in immediately vested shares subject to minimum sixmonth retention period.
Annual Subject to claw-back provisions for seven-years, which incentive may be extended in the event of an ongoing internal regulatory investigation.
Award subject to three-year forward-looking performance period.
Subject to satisfaction of performance conditions, awards Long-term will vest in five equal annual instalments starting from the incentive third anniversary of the grant date.
On vesting, shares are subject to a minimum six-month retention period.
and car, club membership, tax gross-up for accommodation Notes to the single figure of remuneration and car benefit: and Audited non-taxable benefits including the provision of life assurance Benefits and other insurance cover.
In the single figure of remuneration table above, Benefits The values of the significant benefits in the above table are set refers to: out below.
all taxable benefits gross value before payment of tax including provision of medical insurance, accommodation Audited Tax expense on car benefit and Car benefit Hong Kong bank-owned Hong Kong bank-owned Insurance benefit 1 2 1 000 UK and Hong Kong accommodation accommodation non-taxable 2016 75 Douglas Flint 2015 69 57 80 2016 64 263 211 63 Stuart Gulliver 2015 87 281 275 2016 Iain Mackay 2015 2016 Marc Moses 2015 1 The car benefits, tax on car benefits and insurance benefits for Iain Mackay and Marc Moses are not included in the above table as they were not significant.
2 Based on the current market rental value of the bank-owned property in Hong Kong, as estimated by an external lease service provider, plus utility costs, rates, the taxable value of furniture and taking into account the business use of the property.
The taxable value of the accommodation is considered to be 70% of the total of these amounts.
160 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notional returns consulted the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and tookinto consideration their feedback in relation to progress on In the single figure of remuneration table above, Notional enhancing AML and sanctions compliance along with progress returns refers to the notional return on deferred cash.
in meeting the Groups obligations under the US DPA and other The deferred cash portion of the annual incentive also includes relevant orders.
The Committee also took into consideration the aright to receive notional returns for the period between grant report of the independent Monitor in determining the scorecard date and vesting date, which is determined by reference to the outcomes.
dividend yield on HSBC shares, calculated annually.
In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each A payment of notional return is made annually in the same executive Director must meet a required behavioural rating proportion as the vesting of the deferred awards on each which is assessed with reference to the HSBC Values.
The amount is disclosed on a paid basis in the all executive Directors met the required behavioural rating.
yearin which the payment is made.
For 2016, the Committee exercised its discretion and reduced Determining executive Directors annual the Global Standards assessments from 75% to 65% for Stuart Gulliver, from 86% to 65% for Iain Mackay and from 74% to performance 65% for Marc Moses.
This was based on feedback received Audited from the Monitor, matters arising from risk and compliance Awards made to executive Directors reflected the Committees incidents, and a number of unsatisfactory internal audits assessment of the extent to which they had achieved personal covering AML and sanctions-related issues.
and corporate objectives set within their performance scorecard The performance achieved by executive Directors in the year is as agreed at the beginning of the year, which had been set to shown in the table below.
reflect the risk appetite and strategic priorities.
This excludes the year-on-year effects of foreign currency translation differences, fair value movements on our own debt, business disposal gains and losses, acquisitions and goodwill, debt valuation adjustments, restructuring costs included in costs to achieve and variable pay expense.
The adjusted profit before tax includes the cost of fines, penalties and costs of customer redress.
Financial performance Annual assessment Minimum Maximum 25% payout 100% payout Performance Assessment Measure Profit before tax $19.7bn $20.6bn $18.2bn 0% 1 Deliver cost savings $34.0bn $32.9bn $30.7bn 100% Reduce Group RWAs $100.0bn $110.0bn $143.0bn 100% 2 Strategic growth Various Various Partly met targets for seven measures and did not meet minimum targets for 5.27% two measures.
1 Measured by reference to Group adjusted cost base.
2 Strategic growth measures on optimising global network, rebuilding NAFTA region profitability, delivering growth above GDP from international network, pivot to Asia and renminbi internationalisation.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 161 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Non-financial performance The table below provides an overview of the non-financial performance achieved by each executive Director.
Stuart Gulliver Performance Assessment Global Standards including risk Progressive implementation of the most effective Global Standards to combat financial 65.0% and compliance crime across the Group continues, including related attestations by country chief executive officers.
Effective risk management in compliance with AML, sanctions AML and sanctions policy outcomes strengthened with strategic deployments covering and anti-bribery and corruption client due diligence, sanctions screening and transaction monitoring.
Empirical measurements used to assess sustainable operational effectiveness in financial Enhancement of customer due crime compliance.
Conduct programme implementation progressed largely to plan.
Implementation and embedding For 2016, the Committee exercised its discretion and reduced the Global Standards ofglobal conduct programme.
This was based on feedback received from the Monitor, Progress on embedding Global matters arising from risk and compliance incidents, and a number of unsatisfactory Standards.
internal audits covering AML and sanctions-related issues.
Personal objectives Completed sale of operations in Brazil and maintained a presence to serve large corporate 81.3% clients.
Restructuring of business in Turkey to make it a profitable franchise largely Progress transactions in Brazil complete.
Overall implementation of high-priority programmes is fully met including the Progress key milestones on set-up establishment of the ring-fenced bank in the UK which is on track for completion by ofUK ring-fenced bank.
Delivery of other high-priority Comprehensive review of diversity and inclusion completed.
People development including Exceeded target for female share of promotions into senior management.
Iain Mackay Performance Assessment Global Standards including risk and Continued enhancement of the Sarbanes Oxley framework and alignment with the 65.0% compliance operational risk management framework 'ORMF'.
Delivery of 2016 milestones for the controls optimisation project which is on track to be completed by April 2017.
Strengthen governance and control around financial processes.
Effective execution of operational risk management through embedding of the three lines of defence, with remediation plans in place to address any gaps identified against ORMF.
Delivery of controls optimisation project.
Continued progress to comply with regulatory requirements including 2016 stress tests for the PRA, European Banking Authority and US Federal Reserve Bank, and successful Implementation and embedding submission of the inaugural Group-wide individual liquidity adequacy assessment ofglobal conduct programme.
Enhancement of operational risk Embedding of the tax risk management framework in businesses and functions management framework.
Significant progress achieved in embedding US Foreign Account Tax Successful delivery of stress Compliance Act 'FATCA' related measures, common reporting standards and tax testingin key markets.
Implementation of global conduct programme milestones and outcomes were largely met.
For 2016, the Committee exercised its discretion and reduced the Global Standards assessments from 86% to 65%.
This was based on feedback received from the Monitor, matters arising from risk and compliance incidents, and a number of unsatisfactory internal audits covering AML and sanctions-related issues.
Personal objectives 2016 Global Finance function direct costs and FTE targets met via significant 80.0% restructuring transforming the function from geographically aligned to a global operating Deliver cost savings.
model, accompanied by enhancements of technology, demand management, process reImplementation of consistent engineering and off-shoring.
Material progress achieved in the strengthening of the capitalmanagement framework.
Progress key milestones on set-up Activities to implement business segmentation on track and further enhancements to the ofUK ring-fenced bank.
People development including New internal liquidity framework fully implemented.
Delivery against 2016 milestones for UK ring-fencing requirements and other high-priority programmes were fully met.
Delivery of the Global Finance function people agenda, including implementation of accelerated development programmes for targeted employees, the sponsorship and development of careers and capabilities of employees, and improvement of gender diversity in the function.
162 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marc Moses Performance Assessment Global Standards including risk and Global Financial Crime Compliance function focus progressed, although not as quickly 65.0% compliance as planned.
Progress in enhancing know your customer, customer due diligence, and effective risk management in compliance with AML, sanctions, anti-bribery and Effective risk management in corruption policies and Global Standards, were somewhat met as certain key compliance with AML, sanctions and components were not fully developed at the mid-year.
Management oversight of Global Financial Crime Risk function activities were effectively Enhancement of customer due handed over to the newly appointed Group Head of Financial Crime Risk following the diligence.
establishment of the new Financial Crime Risk function.
Implementation and embedding of The conduct programme implementation progressed largely to plan.
Our operational risk transformation programme on track with all key milestones Enhancement of operational risk delivered.
Embedding of the three lines of defence framework continues with the management framework.
management of High rated residual risks, mitigating actions and remediation activities Implementation of US risk largely meeting expectations.
However, further work to self-identify issues is required.
Successfully completed all 2016 outcomes to enable compliance with conduct regulation.
For 2016, the Committee exercised its discretion and reduced the Global Standards assessments from 74% to 65%.
Personal objectives Effective cost management driven through management of business performance and 80.0% Global Risk function transformation activities including process re-engineering and Deliver cost savings.
Successful delivery of stress testing.
Satisfactorily progressed the 2016 PRA and European Banking Authority stress tests and Support business growth and improve stress testing for other key regulators.
RBWM expansion in the Pearl River Delta and creation of the risk infrastructure to People development including launch credit cards in China fully met.
Improved RWA effectiveness and efficiency diversity.
within CMB and GBM to support overall reduction in Group RWAs.
Delivered Global Risk function people initiatives including performance and reward plans, mandatory and key learning initiatives, and strengthened gender diversity.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 163 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report equivalent to 319% of base salary.
The details of the measures Awards under the long-term incentives that will be used to assess performance and payout are Audited provided below.
To the extent performance conditions are Under the new policy approved by shareholders, executive satisfied, the awards will vest in five equal annual instalments Directors are eligible to receive an LTI award.
For the 2016 commencing from around the third anniversary of the grant performance year, the award will be made in March 2017 with date.
On vesting, awards are subject to a minimum six-month athree-year performance period starting 1January 2017. retention period.
For2016, all executive Directors will be awarded an LTI grant Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Weighting Measures 25% payout 50% payout 100% payout % 1 Average return on equity 7.0% 8.5% 10.0% 20 Cost efficiency adjusted jaws Positive 1.5% 3.0% 20 2 Relative total shareholder return At median of the Straight-line vesting At upper quartile of the 20 peergroup.
between minimum and peer group.
Global Standards including riskand Not applicable Not applicable Met all commitments to 25 compliance achieve closure of the DPA and protect HSBC from Status of DPA.
further regulatory censure for financial crime compliance failings.
Achieve and sustain compliance with Global Performance will be assessed by the Committee based on a number of qualitative Financial Crime Compliance policies and andquantitative inputs such as feedback from the Financial System Vulnerabilities procedures.
Committee, Group Financial Crime Risk assessment against Financial Crime Compliance objectives, outcome of assurance and audit reviews, and achievement ofthe long-term Group objectives and priorities during the performance period.
Share of revenues supported by 50% 51% 52% international network Revenue synergies.
22% 23% 24% Share of revenues supported by universal banking model Employee engagement.
65% 67% 70% Results of employee survey Customer.
Rank within top three in Rank within top three in Rank within top three in Based on customer recommendation in atleast two of the four three of the four RBWM allfour RBWM and CMB home country markets RBWM and CMB customer and CMB customer customer segments in segments in home country segments in home country home country markets.
Total 100 1 Significant items are excluded from the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the company for the purpose of computing adjusted return on equity.
2 The peer group for the 2016 award is: Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
Payments to past Directors External appointments Audited During 2016, Stuart Gulliver received S$10,000 in fees as a No payments were made to or in respect of former Directors member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore International inthe year in excess of the minimum threshold of 50,000 set Advisory Panel, which was donated to charity.
Exit payments made in year Total pension entitlements Audited Audited No payments for loss of office were made in 2016 to any person No employees who served as executive Directors during the serving as a Director in the year or any previous years.
year have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary Scheme interests awarded during 2016 pension scheme for their services as executive Directors or are Audited entitled to additional benefits in the event of early retirement.
There is no retirement age set for Directors, but the normal The table below sets out the scheme interests awarded to retirement age for employees is 65.
Directors in 2016 for performance in 2015 as disclosed in the2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year.
164 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Scheme awards in 2016 Audited Percentage End of Face value receivable for Number of Share price 1 Type of interest Basis on which performance awarded minimum shares on date 1 2 awarded award made Date of award 000 performance awarded of grant period Stuart Deferred cash Annual incentive 2015 29 Feb 2016 322 n a n a 31 Dec 2015 Gulliver Deferred shares Annual incentive 2015 29 Feb 2016 322 68,845 4.6735 31 Dec 2015 Deferred shares GPSP 2015 29 Feb 2016 1,969 421,232 4.6735 31 Dec 2015 Iain Mackay Deferred cash Annual incentive 2015 29 Feb 2016 320 n a n a 31 Dec 2015 Deferred shares Annual incentive 2015 29 Feb 2016 320 68,556 4.6735 31 Dec 2015 Deferred shares GPSP 2015 29 Feb 2016 1,101 235,654 4.6735 31 Dec 2015 Marc Moses Deferred cash Annual incentive 2015 29 Feb 2016 248 n a n a 31 Dec 2015 Deferred shares Annual incentive 2015 29 Feb 2016 248 53,065 4.6735 31 Dec 2015 Deferred shares GPSP 2015 29 Feb 2016 1,101 235,654 4.6735 31 Dec 2015 1 Unvested awards determined based on performance achieved during the period to 31 December 2015.
The overall award level could have been 0% of the maximum opportunity if minimum performance was achieved for the period to 31 December 2015.
After grant, awards are subject to service condition and malus provisions.
2 Share price used is the closing mid-market price on the last working day preceding the date of grant.
GPSP awards were made based on performance up to the Directors interests in shares financial year-end preceding the grant date with no further Audited performance conditions after grant.
Vesting occurs five years The shareholdings of all persons who were Directors in 2016, after grant date and is normally subject to the Director including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at remaining an employee until the vesting date.
The net of tax 31December 2016 are set out below.
The table below shows shares which the Director becomes entitled to on the vesting the comparison of shareholdings to the company shareholding date are subject to a retention requirement.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of The above table does not include details of shares issued as part the Directors from 31 December 2016 to the date of this report of the fixed pay allowances, as those shares vest immediately excluding those disclosed in footnote 8 of the below table.
and are not subject to any service or performance conditions.
Shares Audited At 31 Dec 2016 Scheme interests 1 Shares awarded subject to deferral Current Share 4 Shareholding shareholding interests without with 2 3 guidelines as at Dec 2016 number performance performance 5 4, 6 7 % of salary % of salary of shares Share options conditions conditions Executive Directors 8 Douglas Flint 100% 170% 402,158 2,919 Stuart Gulliver 400% 1,691% 3,344,208 3,132,917 99,357 Iain Mackay 300% 312% 345,469 3,469 1,424,437 68,688 Marc Moses 300% 744% 824,241 1,735,488 66,734 9 Group Managing Directors 250,000 shares 250,000 shares n a n a n a n a 1 The gross number of shares is disclosed.
A portion of these shares will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security which falls due at the time of vesting.
2 The current shareholding guideline does not count unvested share-based incentives.
3 An average of three-month closing share price as on 31 December 2016 6.3224 has been used to calculate current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
4 Under the annual incentive, in line with regulatory requirements, any deferred shares net of tax which the Director becomes entitled to are subject to a retention requirement, such that they must be held for a predefined period of time.
To provide the executive Directors with appropriate flexibility, the Committee determined that, the requirement to hold these shares could be met either by i retaining the shares that vested from the underlying award net of tax or ii by separately retaining a number of shares equivalent to those that vested under the award.
The Committee consider that such an arrangement results in the employee holding the same number of shares as per the original intention of the retention period as set out in the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014.
5 All share options are unvested and unexercised.
6 Includes GPSP awards, which were made following an assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December immediately before the grant date but are subject to a five-year vesting period.
7 Awards granted in March 2013 are subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the DPA, as determined by the Committee.
The DPA condition ends on the fifth anniversary of the award date unless the DPA is extended or otherwise continues beyond that date, in which case the awards will vest on the date on which the DPA expires and otherwise ceases to operate.
This award will lapse if the Committee determines that the performance conditions are not satisfied.
8 Since the end of the year, the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held by Douglas Flint has increased by 22, following an acquisition, through regular monthly contributions in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan.
9 All Group Managing Directors are expected to meet their minimum shareholding guideline by 2019 or within five years of the date of their appointment, whichever is later.
Share options Audited Date of award Exercise price Exercisable At 1 Jan Exercised At 31 Dec 1 from until 2016 in year 2016 Douglas Flint 23 Sep 2014 5.1887 1 Nov 2019 30 April 2020 2,919 2,919 Iain Mackay 23 Sep 2014 5.1887 1 Nov 2017 30 April 2018 3,469 3,469 1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, such as retirement.
The above awards were made under HSBC UK Sharesave, an immediately prior to the start of the invitation period.
Employees all-employee share plan under which eligible employees may may make contributions of up to 500 each month over a period begranted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The market value per ordinary share at The exercise price is set at a 20% discount to the share price 31December 2016 was 6.5690.
Market value is the midHSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 165 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report market price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily eight-year period that ended on 31 December 2016.
The Official List on the relevant date.
Under the Securities and FTSE100 Total Return Index has been chosen as this is a Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are categorised recognised broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings asunlisted physically settled equity derivatives.
The single figure remuneration over the past eightyears together with the outcomes of the respective Summary of shareholder return and Group Chief annualincentive and long-term incentive awards are also Executive remuneration presented below.
The following graph shows the total shareholder return TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for the HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group Chief Michael Michael Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Executive Geoghegan Geoghegan Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Total single figure 000 7,580 7,932 8,047 7,532 8,033 7,619 7,340 5,675 1 Annual incentive % of max.
25% 19% 50% 40% 49% 44% 41% 1 The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver used for this table includes 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report which was deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the DPA, as determined by the Committee.
2 Long-term incentive awards are included in the single figure for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be substantially completed.
For GPSP awards this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant GPSP awards shown in 2011 to 2015 therefore relate to awards granted in 2012 to 2016.
For performance share awards that were awarded before introduction of GPSP, the value of awards that vested subject to satisfaction of performance conditions attached to those awards are included at the end of the third financial year following the date of grant for example, performance share awards shown in 2010 relates to awards granted in 2008.
3 The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made for 2016.
Vesting of the first LTIaward will be included in the single figure table for the financial year ending on 31 December 2019.
For year-on-year comparison purposes, if target performance is achieved overthe three-year performance period, LTI payout for the 2016 award would be50% of grant value.
In this case, the single figure total remuneration of the executive Directors for year-on-year comparison would be in 000 7,670 for Stuart Gulliver.
166 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Comparison of Group Chief Executive and all-employee Relative importance of spend on pay pay The following charts compare the changes in Group Chief Executive pay to changes in employee pay between 2015 and 2016, and provide a breakdown of total staff pay relative to the amount paid out in dividends.
26% 9% Percentage change in remuneration between 2015 and 2016 Group Chief Executive Employee Group 1 Base salary 0% 4% 2, 3 Benefits 12 % 11 % 4 Annual incentive 58 % 5 % 1 Employee group consists of local full-time UK employees as representative of employees from different businesses and functions across the Group.
Group ChiefExecutive's total fixed pay has not increased since 1 January 2014.
2 There has been no change in the benefits provided to the Group Chief Executive.
The change in the value of the benefit is due to the change in the taxable value of the benefit as reported in the single figure table.
3 Employee group consists of UK employees eligible for taxable benefits which was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given varying local requirements.
There has been no change in the benefit coverage for employees from 2015 to 2016.
The reduction in the average cost of benefits per employee is reflective of the decrease in the cost of providing such benefit on average.
4 Employee group consists of all employees globally, based on annual incentive poolas disclosed on page 29 and staff numbers full-time equivalents at the financial year-end.
The percentage change in annual incentive award of the GroupChief Executive is primarily driven by the difference in the 2015 and 2016 scorecard outcome, reflecting performance achieved in those years, and change in policy.
Details of the 2016 total single figure of remuneration for the Group Chief Return to shareholder Employee compensation Executive are on page 160. and benefits Dividends Share buy-back The chart above shows the change in: total staff pay between 2015 and 2016: and dividends paid out in respect of 2015 and 2016.
We also executed a share buy-back worth approximately $2.5bn in the second half of 2016, and completed this early in the first quarter of 2017.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 167 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Non-executive Directors The table below shows the total fees of non-executive Director for 2016, together with comparative figures for 2015.
3 Includes 7,000 inclusive of VAT in respect of his membership of a verwaltungsrat advisory body to HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
These fees were received in respect of 2015 also, although they were not included in the disclosure.
4 Includes fees of 31,000 for 2016 360,000 in 2015 as Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 5 Includes fees of 173,000 in 2016 as Director and member of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and as Director, member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Risk Committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
6 Includes a fee of 411,000 as Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. following appointment on 1 January 2016.
7 Includes a fee of 345,000 in 2016 345,000 in 2015 as non-executive Chairman of HSBC Bank plc.
8 Appointed as a Director on 1 September 2015 and as a member of the Conduct & Values Committee and Group Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2016 and the Nomination Committee on 22 April 2016.
9 Benefits include accommodation and travel-related expenses relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings' registered office.
Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
at 31 December 2016 are set out below.
The table below shows Non-executive Directors interests in shares the comparison of shareholdings to the company shareholding Audited guidelines.
The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in 2016, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, Shareholding guidelines Share interests number of shares number of shares Phillip Ameen 15,000 5,000 Kathleen Casey 15,000 8,620 Laura Cha 15,000 5,200 Henri fide Castries 15,000 16,165 Lord Evans of Weardale 15,000 9,170 Joachim Faber 15,000 66,605 Sam Laidlaw 15,000 40,860 Irene Lee 15,000 10,000 John Lipsky 15,000 16,165 Rachel Lomax 15,000 18,900 Heidi Miller 15,000 3,975 David Nish 15,000 50,000 Jonathan Symonds 15,000 21,771 Jackson Tai 15,000 31,605 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 15,000 15,000 Paul Walsh 15,000 5,079 168 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Voting results from 2016 Annual General Meeting The table below summarises the voting results at our last AGM.
For Against Withheld 90.49% 9.51% 54,280,789 Remuneration Report 8,327,033,672 875,494,490 96.05% 3.95% 35,165,873 Remuneration Policy 8,887,168,002 365,908,568 strategic and financial objectives set out in our Investor Update Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 for in June 2015.
The performance targets for the annual incentive executive Directors are commercially sensitive and it would be detrimental to the Implementation of fixed remuneration is disclosed on page 156 Groups interests to disclose them at the start of the financial along with the remuneration policy summary.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we will disclose the performance measures and weightings for the 2017 annual targets after the end of a relevant financial year in that years incentive award are provided below.
Annual incentive scorecards 2017 annual incentive scorecards The weightings and performance measures to apply to the 2017 Executive Directors will be eligible for an annual incentive award annual incentive award for Stuart Gulliver, Iain Mackay and of up to 213% of base salary.
Marc Moses are disclosed below.
These align to the Groups Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Measures % % % 1 Profit before tax 20 10 10 Capital management 25 Deliver cost savings 20 10 Reduce Group RWAs 10 10 15 Strategic growth 10 Global Standards including risk and compliance 25 25 50 Personal objectives 15 20 25 Total 100 100 100 1 Adjusted profit before tax as defined for Group annual bonus pool calculation.
Details of the Global Standards and personal objectives measures are provided below.
Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Measures Global Achieve and sustain compliance Effective management of material Ensure the Global Risk function enables and Standards with global financial crime operational risks.
supports Financial Crime Risk function to achieve including compliance policies and and sustain compliance with global financial crime Implementation of the operational riskand procedures, and or have approved compliance policies and procedures.
Effective management of material operational Proactively review and challenge Implement the operational risk risks.
the first line of defence to assess management framework.
the adequacy of risk management Implementation of the operational risk Implementation of global conduct activities relating to accounting management framework.
programme and maturity level and tax.
Proactively review and challenge the first line of achieved against the required Implementation of global conduct defence to assess the adequacy of risk conduct outcomes.
programme and maturity level management activities and fulfil risk steward Effective risk management with achieved against the required responsibilities.
AML, sanctions, anti-bribery and conduct outcomes.
Manage credit and market risk, and oversee corruption policies and Global Successful delivery of regulatory liquidity risk within the Board approved risk Standards.
and internal stress tests in 2017. appetite.
Implementation of global conduct programme and maturity level achieved against the required conduct outcomes.
Successful delivery of regulatory and internal stress tests in 2017.
Personal Ensure climate change is reflected Enhanced environmental, social Develop processes to measure exposure to objectives across the Groups activities.
and governance ESG disclosures carbon-intensive and low-carbon-intensive in collaboration with External activities.
Optimise global network and Affairs function and global reduce complexity.
Define opportunities to develop risk management businesses.
policies and procedures consistent with Group risk Set-up UK ring-fenced bank Deliver Global Finance appetite to protect the Group from climate change headquartered in Birmingham and transformation.
risk, and enable business activities supporting a move the business to be ready for transition to a low-carbon economy.
a UK departure from the EU.
Set-up UK ring-fenced bank headquartered in Birmingham and Pivot to Asia and support growth of customer Delivery of high-priority projects.
move the business to be ready for lending.
Improve customer satisfaction and a UK departure from the EU.
Improve RWA effectiveness and efficiency.
Complete succession and Complete succession and transition planning.
Complete succession and transition planning.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 169 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Long-term incentives Additional remuneration disclosures Details of the performance measures and targets for LTI This section provides disclosures required under the Hong Kong awards to be made in 2017, in respect of 2016, are provided Ordinances, Hong Kong Listing Rules, the US Securities and on page 164.
Exchange Commission Form 20-F and the Pillar 3 remuneration The performance measures and targets for awards to be made disclosures.
in respect of 2017, granted in 2018, will be provided in the Employee compensation and benefits Annual Reports and Accounts 2017.
Executive Directors Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 for non-executive Directors Set out below are details of compensation paid to executive Directors for the year ended 31December 2016.
The Committee has reviewed the fee levels payable to the nonexecutive Directors and details can be found on page 155.
Vesting of the award is subject to the performance conditions detailed on page 164.
2 For the 2015 performance year, performance-related pay includes annual incentives and GPSP.
3 Deferred compensation accrued in 2016 for awards granted in prior years was 3,630,102 $4,897,447 for Stuart Gulliver, 1,806,500 $2,437,187 for Iain Mackay and 2,033,451 $2,743,371 for Marc Moses.
Deferred compensation accrued in 2015 for awards granted in prior years was 3,179,883 $4,860,042 for Stuart Gulliver, 1,378,660 $2,107,104 for Iain Mackay and 1,674,155 $2,558,730 for Marc Moses.
The aggregate amount of Directors' emoluments as defined Emoluments of senior management and five highest paid above including both executive Directors and non-executive employees Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016 was Set out below are details of emoluments paid to senior $23,925,335.
As per our policy, benefits in kind mayinclude, but management being here, executive Directors and Group are not limited to, the provision of medical insurance, income Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings for the year ended protection insurance, health assessment, lifeassurance, club 31December 2016 or for the period of appointment in 2016 as membership, tax assistance, Hong Kong accommodation for a Director or Group Managing Director.
Details of remuneration Stuart Gulliver, car benefit, travel assistance, and relocation paid to the five highest paid employees, including three costs including any tax due on thebenefit, where applicable.
executive Directors and two Group Managing Directors of HSBC Medical insurance benefit of 1,605 $2,165 was provided to a Holdings, for the year ended 31 December 2016 are also past director, Alexander Flockhart, during the year ended 31 presented below.
Amounts are converted into US dollars based on the average year-to-date exchange rates for the respective year.
Emoluments Five highest paid employees Senior management 000 000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 15,474 34,101 Pension contributions 82 251 1 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 17,916 32,818 Inducements to join paid or receivable Compensation for loss of office 2,669 Total 33,472 69,839 Total $000 45,158 94,222 1 Includes the face value of LTI awards at grant.
Individuals have been identified as Aggregate remuneration expenditure Global business aligned Retail Banking and Wealth Commercial Global Banking Global Private Corporate Management Banking and Markets Banking Centre Total $m $m $m $m $m $m 2016 94.2 67.4 756.9 66.8 391.1 1,376.4 Includes salary and incentives awarded in respect of the performance year 2016 including deferred component and any pension or benefits outside of policy.
Remuneration fixed and variable amounts Group-wide 1 Senior management MRTs non-senior management Total Number of MRTs 114 1,203 1,317 $m $m $m Fixed Cash-based 116.8 619.8 736.6 Shares-based 13.6 7.9 21.5 Total fixed 130.4 627.7 758.1 2 Variable Cash 20.9 138.2 159.1 3 Non-deferred shares 25.9 127.7 153.6 Deferred cash 29.1 116.3 145.4 Deferred shares 40.5 119.7 160.2 4 Total variable pay 116.4 501.9 618.3 1 Definition of senior management for Pillar 3 disclosure includes our members of the Group Management Board, Group General Managers and non-executive Directors.
2 Variable pay awarded in respect of 2016.
3 Vested shares, subject to a six-month retention period.
4 In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014, for each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of fixed component of the total remuneration of the MRT.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 171 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration fixed and variable amounts UK based 1 Senior management MRTs non-senior management Total Number of MRTs 76 522 598 $m $m $m Total fixed 80.4 255.8 336.2 2Variable Cash 11.6 57.3 68.9 3 Non-deferred shares 16.6 51.4 68.0 Deferred cash 16.3 47.7 64.0 Deferred shares 27.7 48.4 76.1 4 Total variable pay 72.2 204.8 277.0 1 Definition of senior management for Pillar 3 disclosure includes our members of the Group Management Board, Group General Managers and non-executive Directors.
1 Deferred remuneration Senior management MRTs non-senior management Total $m $m $m Deferred remuneration at 31 Dec Outstanding, unvested 280.3 657.1 937.4 Awarded during the year 86.2 331.1 417.3 2 Paid out 53.2 216.8 270.0 Reduced through malus 1 This table provides details of actions taken during performance year 2016.
For details of variable pay awards granted for 2016, please refer to both the remuneration tables above.
2 Vested shares are valued using the closing share price on the business day immediately preceding the vesting day.
Sign-on and severance payments Senior management MRTs non-senior management Total 1 Sign-on payments Made during year $m 1.6 11.7 13.3 Number of beneficiaries 1 18 19 2 Severance payments Awarded and made during year $m 3.2 4.0 7.2 Number of beneficiaries 1 7 8 Highest such award to a single person $m 3.2 1.8 5.0 1 Guaranteed variable pay awards granted to new hires and limited to their first year of service.
2 Represents non-standard termination payments made in excess of any local policies, standards or statutory amounts.
172 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
