Strategic Report Remuneration Our remuneration policy supports the achievement of our strategic objectives by balancing reward for shortand long-term sustainable performance.
Remuneration principles The remuneration strategy for our employees is based on a series of key principles.
What we do What we dont do Focus on total compensation Reward inappropriate or excessive with a strong link between pay risk taking or short-term performance and performance at the expense of long-term company sustainability Judge not only what is achieved, but also how it is achieved, in line Use only a formulaic approach to with the HSBC Values determine bonuses for our executives Operate a thorough performance Award discretionary bonuses to management and HSBC Values employees rated unacceptable against assessment process the HSBC Values and behaviours Recognise and reward our employees Allow our employees to hedge against for outstanding positive behaviour their unvested or retained awards Design our policy to align Offer employment contracts with a compensation with long-term notice period of more than 12 months stakeholder interests Have pre-arranged individual Apply consequence management severance agreements to strengthen the alignment between risk and reward Embedding our values in our remuneration framework Instilling the right behaviours, and Pay Outcomes driving and encouraging actions that Positive Individuals who exhibit exceptional conduct and behaviours are aligned to organisational values adjustments are awarded positive variable pay adjustments during the year.
We Global Ensures clear messaging to employees on the impact of any therefore have a number of programmes consequence inappropriate conduct as part of reward communications, with to reinforce our values.
management consistency in approach and actions taken depending on the policy severity of the misconduct.
Global Our global recognition programme is now available in more than recognition 50 countries.
programme In 2016, approximately 600,000 recognitions were made with a total value of $8.1m.
Performance Employees set objectives, which connect business, team and individual management goals and are guided by expected behaviours aligned to our core values.
All employees receive a behaviour rating based on their adherence to HSBC Values to ensure performance is judged not only on what is achieved, but also on how it is achieved.
Employees and managers are encouraged to hold frequent conversations throughout the year, exploring alternative ways to stay connected outside the regular performance management cycle using a mix of informal and formal check-ins on a range of topics, including performance, development and wellbeing.
28 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration How we set our variable pay pool When deciding on the variable pay pool, the Remuneration Committee Our variable pay pool for 2016 considers a number of factors, which are set out in the following table: Our variable pay pool is $3,035m, a decrease of 12.3% compared with 2015.
Performance and Our variable pay pool takes into account our performance risk appetite in the context of our risk appetite.
Variable pay pool $m statement 2016 2015 Countercyclical To dampen effects of economic cycles, the variable pay 3,035 funding pools size has a floor and a ceiling, and we also limit the Group 3,462 methodology payout ratio as performance increases to prevent the risk Of which Global 954 of inappropriate behaviour.
Banking and Markets 1,086 Distribution of Our funding methodology ensures that the distribution of profits post-tax profit between capital, shareholders and variable pay is appropriate, and that the majority of post-tax profit is allocated to capital and shareholders.
Commerciality We face challenges arising from being headquartered in and affordability the UK, which has more stringent reward practices.
We take into account these challenges in determining the size of the variable pay pool to ensure we can continue to attract and retain talent in key markets.
Remuneration for our executive Directors Our remuneration policy for executive Directors was approved at our The table below shows the amount our 2016 Annual General Meeting and implemented for the first time in 2016. executive Directors earned in 2016.
Full details of our remuneration policy can be found online in our For details of Directors pay and performance for 2016, Directors Remuneration Policy Supplement 2016. see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 153.
For 2016, executive Directors will receive a long-term incentive LTI award, with a performance period ending in 2019, which will be included in the single figure table for the financial year ending on 31 December 2019.
If target performance is achieved for this award, LTI payout would be 50% of grant value.
In this case, the 2016 total single figure for year-on-year comparison would be in 000 7,670 for Stuart Gulliver, 4,069 for Iain Mackay and 4,052 for Marc Moses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review S St tr ra ate tegi gic c R Re ep po or rt t
