STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Policy Overview This report outlines the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which will be applied by the Hunting Board for the executive and non-executive Directors of the Company, subject to approval at the AGM.
Minor revisions have been made to the Policy approved by shareholders in 2014.
In line with recommendations made by various regulatory and investor groups, including the Financial Reporting Council and GC100 advisory group, disclosures on Remuneration Committee discretion have been enhanced for both the operation of the executive Director Annual Bonus Plan and the HPSP.
This revised Policy is to be tabled for approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 12 April 2017.
The Policy for executive Director remuneration is designed to comply with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006 regarding remuneration and to ensure that each Director is attracted, retained and motivated to promote and achieve the long-term success of the Group.
The Policy is divided between fixed and variable incentives and is structured to link total reward to both corporate and individual performance.
The remuneration structures of the Chief Executive and Finance Director are based on externally benchmarked data aimed at providing the executive Directors with competitive levels of remuneration.
The Chief Executives remuneration is benchmarked to the global energy industry, while the Finance Director is benchmarked to the UK listed market.
Non-executive Director fees are set at levels which take into account the time commitment and responsibilities of each role.
Given the small size of the Hunting Board, each non-executive Director is required to give an above average time commitment to Group matters.
The non-executive Directors do not receive cash bonuses or other variable emoluments.
The fees are benchmarked to other companies of a similar size, profile and profitability and are reviewed annually by the executive Directors.
The Chairmans fee is set by the Remuneration Committee.
Fixed Emoluments Fixed emoluments to the executive Directors comprise of base salary, benefits including healthcare insurance, the provision of a company vehicle and fuel, and pension contributions appropriate to the geographic location of the executive.
Base salaries are aimed at the market mid-point.
Variable Emoluments Variable emoluments comprise of an Annual Cash Bonus and participation in a single long-term performance-based share plan.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee applies the Groups Budget, agreed annually at each December meeting of the Board, to benchmark the performance-linked annual cash bonus, which is indexed to the Groups actual performance against Budget.
The bonus award is subject to possible adjustment through the application of a personal performance adjustor, which recognises the delivery of individual targets set by the Committee.
The preset Budget performance targets are retrospectively disclosed annually, along with supporting narrative on the personal performance adjustor and its impact on the bonuses paid to each executive Director.
The Company operates a single long-term performance-based share plan, the Hunting Performance Share Plan the HPSP, whereby the executive Directors receive awards over Hunting shares that vest after three years, subject to performance conditions.
Awards under the HPSP for the executive Directors are equally divided into three categories with each category subject to a performance condition: i relative total shareholder return TSR, ii absolute earnings per share EPS and iii return on capital employed ROCE.
The Committee believes that the HPSP is a demanding and stretching long-term incentive, encourages strong performance from the executive Directors.
As part of each annual award, the Committee has discretion to set different performance targets if, in the opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less challenging.
These targets take into account the outlook for the Group over the long-term, with the Committee committed to ensuring these targets remain demanding.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table Fixed Emoluments Remuneration Component Base Salary Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Attract, retain and reward Base salaries are set at competitive rates, which take There is no prescribed maximum executives with the necessary into account the individuals country of residence and annual increase.
The Committee skills to effectively deliver the primary operating location as well as companies in the is guided by the general increase Company strategy.
for the broader employee Aimed at the market mid-point.
population, but on occasions Annual increases take into account inflation in the UK, may need to recognise, for US and increases across the total workforce.
example, development in role, Relocation and tax equalisation agreements are change in responsibility, and or also in place for employees working across multiple specific retention issues.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 63 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Remuneration Component Pension Arrangements and Benefits Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Provide normal pension and The Group contributes on behalf of the Chief Executive N A benefit schemes appropriate currently resident in the US, to a US 401K deferred to the country of residence.
savings plan and an additional deferred compensation Each executive Director is scheme.
provided with healthcare The Group provides an annual cash sum to the insurance and a company Finance Director currently resident in the UK in lieu carwith fuel benefits.
ofcontributions to a company pension scheme.
Additional benefits may be provided to ensure the Group remains competitive within the relevant localmarket.
Variable Emoluments Remuneration Component Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus Plan Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum To incentivise annual delivery of Awards are subject to the Annual Bonus Plan rules Chief Executive financial and operational targets.
High reward potential for Awards are subject to measurement against the Finance Director exceeding demanding targets.
Bonus is weighted 70% to budgeted PBT and 30% to budgeted ROCE.
Budgeted PBT, for plan purposes, is before amortisation and items deemed exceptional within the Annual Budget.
Budgeted ROCE, for plan purposes, is profit from operations before amortisation and items deemed exceptional within the Annual Budget divided by the budgeted average capital employed.
Bonus begins to accrue when 80% of the Budget targets are achieved.
Level of bonus increases on a straight-line basis from zero payment when 80% of Budget is achieved to a maximum when 120% of Budget is achieved.
For an on-target performance, defined as actual results equal to the Budget, the Chief Executive is paid 100% of base salary and the Finance Director is paid 75% ofbase salary.
The Annual Bonus is not pensionable.
The Committee operates a personal performance adjustor to the annual bonus arrangements.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the annual bonus using the performance adjustor.
The adjustor range is from 0 to 1.25 times the annual bonus figure, however this adjustment, if implemented, will not exceed the stated maximum.
The personal performance targets linked to the performance adjustor will be disclosed on award of the bonus.
The Committee reserves the discretion to adjust the amount of any Bonus to reflect any fact or circumstance which the Committee considers to be relevant including for the avoidance of doubt, adjustment to zero.
Clawback provisions are incorporated into the annual bonus plan rules and allow for the bonus to be adjusted to zero.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 64 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Remuneration Component HPSP Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum Recognition and reward Annual grant of shares or nil cost options.
Chief Executive to executive Directors for Vesting levels determined by Company performance 550% of base salary.
the creation of shareholder overa three year period against i TSR of a bespoke Finance Director value over the longer term.
peergroup: ii EPS: and iii ROCE.
This element provides full Grant value of 450% of base salary for the Chief Executive alignment with shareholder and 210% of base salary for the Finance Director.
Achievement of minimum performance target results in a 25% vesting of any element of the award.
Awards subject to clawback and malus provisions.
The maximum award noted provides the Committee with flexibility in cases such as recruitment.
The Committee has set the award levels of the current executive Directors and does not intend to increase these further.
The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the HPSP outcome in circumstances where strict application of the performance conditions would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
Any upward discretion would be subject to prior shareholder consultation.
Remuneration Component Stock Ownership Requirement Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation and Award Basis Maximum To encourage the retention The target holding of the Chief Executive is equal to N A of shares under award to the market value of 500% of base salary and for the theexecutive.
Finance Director 200% of base salary.
To align the long-term All vested shares are to be retained, following the interests of the executive payment of relevant taxes, until the ownership withshareholders.
Directors have five years to achieve the required holding level from 1 January 2014 or from the date oftheir appointment to the Board.
The Board has discretion to extend this time period ifwarranted by individual circumstances.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 65 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Non-executive Director Remuneration Policy Table The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is designed to reflect the time and commitment of each to their respective roles.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fee detail Maximum Chairmans To attract and The Chairman is paid a single The fee for the The fees paid to the fees.
retain a high-calibre fee for all his responsibilities Chairman is currently non-executive Directors Chairman by offering including chairing the $135,540 100,000. are benchmarked to a market competitive Nomination Committee.
Fees are set in UK other UK companies fee level.
Fees are determined by Sterling and reviewed of a similar size and the Board as a whole on annually in December.
recommendation of the Given the small size executive Directors following of the Board, each receipt of external fee non-executive Director information and an assessment is expected to give of the time commitment and an above average responsibilities involved.
time commitment to Group matters and Non-executive To attract and retain The non-executive Directors The basic Board fee fees are based on this Director fees.
high-calibre nonare paid a basic fee.
The is currently $81,324 increased commitment.
executive Directors Directors who chair the Boards 60,000 with an The Companys by offering a market subcommittees and the Senior additional fee of Articles of Association competitive fee level.
Independent Director are paid $13,554 10,000 prescribe aggregate an additional fee to reflect their for chairing the Audit maximum fees for extra responsibilities.
and Remuneration all non-executive Non-executive Director fees are Committees, and Directors of $677,750 determined by the Board as for the role of Senior 500,000 per annum.
a whole, on recommendation Independent Director.
of the executive Directors, Fees are set in UK following receipt of external fee Sterling and reviewed information and an assessment annually in December.
of the time commitment and responsibilities involved.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in the Groups share plans and do not receive a cash bonus or any other benefits.
Stock To align the nonNon-executive Directors are N A N A Ownership executive Directors required to build up a holding Requirements.
interests with the ofshares in the Company equal long-term interests to a market value of 100% of the of shareholders.
annual fees paid and have five years to achieve the required holding level from 1 January 2014, or from the date of their appointment to the Board.
Amendments to the Policy The oil and gas industry has historically been a competitive marketplace, therefore recruiting and retaining the right individuals todeliver long-term shareholder growth is a key management focus and that of the Remuneration Committee.
As the industry recovers from the current market conditions, it is anticipated that recruitment and retention will continue to be achallenge for the Group and, therefore, the Committee intends to keep the approved Policy under review, and will make any necessary revisions after appropriate consultation and approval from shareholders has been received.
Relevance to Employee Pay The Policy described above provides an overview of the structure that also operates and applies to the most senior executives inthe Group.
While bonus and pensions arrangements are in place for most of the Groups employees, lower aggregate remuneration operates atbelow the executive Director and senior manager level with total remuneration driven by market comparatives and the individual responsibilities of each role.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 66 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Choice of Performance Metrics The corporate strategy includes promoting the long-term success of the Group by investing in its existing products and services portfolio through capital investment or by acquisition and growing the business in a way that is aligned with the evolving global energy industry.
The performance of the executive Directors in executing this strategy is evaluated by the following key performance indicators KPIs, which drive the variable components of the executive Directors emoluments.
KPI Element of remuneration Reason for use Underlying Profit before Taxation.
Annual Bonus PBT is a management KPI used to measure the underlying performance of the Group.
PBT reflects the achievements of the Group in a given financial year and recognises sustained profitability measured against an agreed Annual Budget.
Underlying Return on Annual Bonus ROCE is a management KPI used to measure the Capital Employed.
HPSP underlying performance of the Group.
ROCE reflects the value created on funds invested in the short and medium term.
HPSP To achieve sustained levels of shareholder return over the long-term.
HPSP To achieve sustained levels of earnings growth over the long-term.
The HPSP performance conditions and growth targets can be amended by the Remuneration Committee, with the targets set annually when each award is granted, following an assessment of the growth prospects of the Group.
Taken together, the Committee believe that the executive Directors are appropriately incentivised to deliver both short and long-term performance based on these metrics.
Remuneration Committee Discretion The Committee has defined areas of discretion within the Directors Policy framework.
Where discretion is applied, the Committee willdisclose the rationale for the application of discretion.
The Committee will operate the annual performance-linked cash bonus plan and HPSP in accordance with the relevant plan rules and this Policy.
The Committee retains discretion as to the operation and administration of these plans as follows: Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus Plan Determination of the personal performance adjustor to the financial performance outcome, which reflects the delivery against personal and strategic performance targets by each executive Director and has the potential to be applied to increase the bonus by up to 25% or decrease it to zero.
The assessment of part-year performance in the event of the exit of a Director, including but not limited to, reviewing forecast financial performance of the Group and the outlook of the business in the context of wider market conditions.
Bonus awards for good-leavers will generally be pro-rated for the period of service completed.
The Committee may settle an award in cash or shares.
HPSP Selection of the TSR comparator group for the HPSP.
The Committee reviews the comparator group annually ahead of each grant made to the executive Directors under the HPSP.
The Committee also retains the discretion to make adjustments to the comparator group for subsisting awards if it believes that a constituent of the comparator group has distorted the vesting outcome if, for example, a constituent company has been subject to a material corporate action.
The Committee may amend the performance conditions applying to an award in exceptional circumstances if the new performance conditions are considered fair and reasonable, and are neither materially more nor materially less challenging than the original performance conditions when set.
The oil and gas industry is a highly cyclical industry, where sentiment is driven by oil and gas commodity prices and activity levels across the industry.
Given that these market conditions are outside of managements control, the Committee retains the discretion to partially adjust the performance targets of the performance conditions adopted for the HPSP, to align with the general market outlook, while continuing to be a demanding and stretching incentive.
Other The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments that are not in line with the Policy outlined above where the terms of the payment were agreed either: before the Policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 67 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Detailed Policy Base Salaries and Fees Base salaries and fees are reviewed annually.
In considering appropriate salary levels for the executive Directors, the Committee takes into account their experience and personal performance, the remuneration paid by comparable companies in terms of asset size, revenues, profits, number of employees, market capitalisation and the complexity and international spread of Group operations, aswell as Group wide salary increases and applicable rates of inflation.
Other relocation and taxation agreements are also in place forkey executives.
Base fee increases for the non-executive Directors are based on benchmarked market data for fees paid by comparable companies.
Benefits Other benefits provided to the executive Directors as part of their remuneration package include the provision of appropriate health cover, life and disability insurance, car and fuel benefits.
Pension The Group contributes to the pension arrangements of both the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Being a US-based citizen, Dennis Proctor participates in the Groups US 401K deferred savings plan.
In addition, the Group contributes to a deferred compensation scheme.
In practice, this compensation scheme is operated on a money purchase basis.
Peter Rose is a member of the Defined Benefit DB Section section of the Hunting Pension Scheme the Scheme.
On 30 June 2016, the DB Section was closed to future accrual, with all members benefits fixed at that date.
To compensate Peter Rose for this loss of benefit, a cash sum in lieu of a company contribution to an alternative pension scheme has been agreed by the Remuneration Committee, to a value of 25% of his annual base salary.
Richard Hunting, as a beneficiary of the Scheme, is not impacted by the closure of the Scheme to future accrual.
Under the terms of the DB Section, the normal retirement age for Directors in the Scheme is 60.
Mr Rose is able to draw his pension on an unreduced basis with the consent of the Company.
Pensionable salary is the annual salary less an amount equal to the State Lower Earnings Limit.
Richard Hunting contributed 8.5% of his pensionable salary up until his Scheme retirement date of 31 July 2006.
Peter Rose contributed a similar proportion of his salary up until 30 June 2016.
Scheme members are also provided with a lump sum death in service benefit of four times base salary and a spouses pension of broadly two thirds of the members pension on the members death.
Bonuses and benefits do not qualify as pensionable salary.
Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus An annual performance-linked cash bonus plan is in place for the executive Directors, which was adopted by the Board in 2010.
Theplan, which is not pensionable, is designed to provide an incentive reward for performance and reflects the competitive markets in which the Group conducts its business.
The bonus plan allows the Committee to incorporate a personal performance adjustor to the bonus, ranging from 0 to 1.25 times the award value.
The Committee is committed to publishing the personal targets set for the executive Directors and, where the personal performance adjustor is applied, will provide detailed disclosures to investors.
This amendment allows the Committee to reduce the formula-driven bonus to zero or increase the bonus up to 1.25 times the award value but not greater than the maximum payable under the plan rules.
Long-term Performance Related Incentives Between 2001 and 2013 the Group granted awards to the executive Directors under three long-term incentive plans, including an Executive Share Option Plan ESOP between 2001 and 2008: a Performance Share Plan PSP between 2009 and 2013: and a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP between 2004 and 2013.
The executive Directors still hold vested share options under the ESOP, asdetailed in the table on page 77, while the vesting of the final awards under the PSP and LTIP occurred in 2016.
As such, thecurrent Policy does not include information on the operation of these legacy plans, and stakeholders should refer to the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy which can be found at www.
The PSP and LTIP were replaced by the HPSP in 2014, with the first awards under the new plan due to vest on 1 May 2017.
Hunting Performance Share Plan HPSP The HPSP was approved by shareholders in April 2014.
Share awards granted to the executive Directors under the HPSP are divided equally into three tranches.
Each tranche is subject to a three-year vesting period, and is also subject to the performance conditions listed below: Total Shareholder Return.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 68 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION More detail on the performance conditions of the HPSP is provided in the following table: Proportion of award Performance condition Detail One-third TSR The Groups TSR will be measured over a three-year period against a bespoke peer group selected from the same global market sector as Hunting.
25% of the award will vest if a median performance against the peer group is achieved, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% if a top quartile performance against the peer group is achieved.
One-third Underlying EPS The Groups EPS performance will be measured across the three-year vesting period.
25% of the award will vest if a minimum growth target set by the Committee is achieved, increasing on a straightline basis to 100% if a stretch target set by the Committee isachieved.
One-third Underlying ROCE The Groups ROCE will be measured across the threeyear vesting period.
25% of the award will vest if ROCE achieves a minimum target set by the Committee increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% if a stretch target set by the Committee isachieved.
The respective performance conditions will be measured at the end of the three year vesting period and awards to the executive Directors will be proportional to the total vesting level achieved.
The face value of the grant to the Chief Executive is 450% of base salary and 210% of base salary for the Finance Director.
A cash sum equivalent to dividends paid by the Company during the vesting period is added to the awards once the final vesting levels have been determined.
Stock Ownership Policy The Company operates a stock ownership policy whereby the Directors and senior managers are required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding in the Companys Ordinary shares.
For executive Directors and senior managers, the primary mechanism of building the required shareholding is by retaining those vested shares received from the long-term incentive schemes operated by Hunting.
Those subject to this requirement have a period of five years from 1 January 2014 or, for new employees, from the date of employment by Hunting, to comply.
The Chief Executive is required to maintain a minimum holding of shares equal to a market value of 500% of base salary: the Finance Director a minimum holding of 200% of base salary and the non-executive Directors a minimum holding of 100% of annual fees.
Certain executives of the Group are required to build and maintain a minimum holding of shares in the Company equal to a market value of between 100% and 200% of base salary.
The value of holding in shares reported in the Annual Report on Remuneration includes Ordinary shares held by the individual and also the post-tax value of vested, but unexercised, share awards and options.
Executive Director Service Contracts All existing executive Directors Service Contracts are rolling one year agreements and contain standard provisions allowing the Company to terminate summarily for cause, such as gross misconduct.
The Chief Executive entered into an Employment Agreement with Hunting Energy Services Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, on 7 February 2001.
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, US.
Under the terms of the Agreement both Hunting Energy Services Inc. and the Chief Executive are required to give one years notice of termination.
The Agreement contains a pay in lieu of notice clause, which provides for the payment of base salary, up to a maximum of one year, a performance bonus if earned and vacation pay based on an annual entitlement of five weeks.
There are special provisions on a change of control.
These provide for payment of an amount equal to the total of the base salary for one year and the average Performance Bonus over the immediately preceding two year period.
In addition, the Chief Executive would be entitled to continue to participate in the Group insurance programmes for 18 months following the change of control, and, unless otherwise provided in the relevant agreement, all share-based awards granted to him shall immediately accelerate and become exercisable as of the date of change of control.
The Finance Director entered into a Service Agreement with the Company on 23 April 2008.
Under the terms of the Service Agreement both the Company and the Director are required to give one years notice of termination.
The Company reserves the right to pay the Finance Director in lieu of notice whether given by the Company or by him which provides for the payment of base salary up to a maximum of one year and a bonus, which he would have been entitled to receive under his contract between the date of termination and the earliest date the appointment could otherwise be lawfully terminated, less income tax and National Insurance Contributions.
The Company also has the option to put the Finance Director on paid leave of absence following payment of a sum equivalent to his salary and bonus based on the previous twelve month period, subject to him complying with the terms of his Service Agreement.
These conditions also apply on termination following a change of control and, in addition, the Finance Director would be entitled to an acceleration of all share-based awards, which would immediately vest at the date of the change of control.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 69 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED External Board Appointments The Company has authorised the executive Directors to undertake non-executive directorships outside of the Group provided these do not interfere with their primary duties.
During the year neither executive Director held any external positions.
Non-executive Director Letters of Appointment On appointment, each non-executive Director is provided with a letter of appointment which sets out the responsibilities and time commitments for the role.
Additional duties, as requested by the Nomination Committee, including chairing a Board subcommittee, are also incorporated into the letters of appointment and fees paid.
Non-executive Director appointments are usually for a fixed three-year term, which can be terminated by either party at any time.
Payment for Loss of Office The Committee has considered the Companys policy on remuneration for executive Directors leaving the Company and is committed to applying a consistent approach to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary.
The loss of office payment policy is subject to existing Service Contract agreements, which the Remuneration Committee will honour.
The policy is generally aligned with market practice and depends on whether the departing executive Director is, or is deemed to be treated as, a good leaver or bad leaver.
A good leaver is defined as an employee who has ceased to be employed by the Group due to death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the employees company ceasing to be a Group member or for any other reason if the Committee so decides.
In the case of a good leaver the policy, taking account of local conditions, normally allows: payment in lieu of notice equal to twelve months base salary, pension contributions, contractual benefits and any other legal entitlements: payment of a bonus for the period worked subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions: and any unvested long-term incentives to vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and pro-rated based ontheperiod of service.
If an employee departs the Group for any other reason than those specified in the good leaver definition above then he she is treated as a bad leaver and unvested long-term incentives lapse immediately on cessation of employment.
The Committee retains discretion to satisfy bonus payments to those executive Directors deemed to be bad leavers.
New Director Policies As the Board of Hunting is refreshed with new executive and non-executive Director appointments, the policy for remuneration for the new Board members will align with those detailed above.
Hunting needs to be able to attract and retain the best executive and non-executive Directors in the market place.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the framework now in place will enable the Company to achieve its recruitment aims.
For executive Director appointments, the fixed component of total emoluments will target the market mid-point, subject to geographic considerations of the candidate and the specific labour market conditions.
The Service Contracts will be rolling one-year agreements with standard provisions.
The fixed component of the emoluments will comprise base salary, including any appropriate relocation or tax equalisation agreements, benefits including healthcare insurance, pension contributions, car benefits and any other components deemed necessary to secure an appointment.
The variable component to the emoluments will be implemented in line with the policies above, subject to any future amendments to these arrangements being approved by shareholders.
Annual performancelinked cash bonus arrangements will include awards up to 150% and 200% of base salary for a new Finance Director and Chief Executive respectively.
The maximum awards under the HPSP will be up to 450% and 550% of base salary for a new Finance Director and Chief Executive respectively.
The Committee anticipates market standard change of control provisions within new Service Contracts.
In addition, for new appointees, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to bein the best interests of the Company and therefore the shareholders.
Any such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For non-executive Director appointments, benchmarked fees to companies of similar size and profile to Hunting will be applied.
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Group The Committee considers the general basic salary increases for the broader employee population when determining the annual salary increases for the executive Directors.
Employees have not been consulted in respect of the design of the Companys senior executive remuneration policy.
Shareholder Consultation and Feedback When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account views of leading shareholders and best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to undergoing consultation with leading shareholders in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of executive remuneration remains appropriate.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 70 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors The remuneration scenarios of the executive Directors for a fixed, target and maximum performance are presented in the charts below.
The charts are based on 2016 remuneration data.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR Maximum 16% 26% $6,046k Maximum 32% 28% 40% $2,132k 58% Target 26% 23% 51% $3,493k Target 48% 22% 30% $1,405k Fixed 100% $940k Fixed 100% $678k Fixed Annual Bonus HPSP Note: These charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accruals have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Fixed: latest known salary, benefits and normal pension contributions or payments in lieu of pension contributions.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual cash bonus opportunity plus 50% vesting of awards under the HPSP.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual cash bonus opportunity plus 100% vesting of all long-term incentives.
The Finance Director is paid in Sterling and the equivalent total remuneration scenarios are as follows fixed 500k: target 1,037k and maximum 1,573k.
JOHN HOFMEISTER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 2 March 2017 Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 71 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Introduction The principles noted within the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy detailed on pages 63 to 71 have been in operation throughout 2016 and are detailed in the following report.
The Policy can also be viewed on the Groups website at www.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee will continue to implement these policies throughout 2017, subject to reapproval by shareholders.
Role, Membership and Attendance The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Finance Director and designated senior management and, where appropriate, are invited by the Committee to attend meetings, but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
Remuneration of the non-executive Directors is agreed by the Board as a whole.
The full scope of the role of the Committee is set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, and can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee met 6 times during the year and attendance details are shown in the table on page 53.
During the year, and to the date of signature of the accounts, the members of the Committee and their unexpired term of office were: Director Latest appointment date Unexpired term as at 2 March 2017 John Hofmeister Committee Chairman 29 August 2015 18 months Annell Bay 2 February 2015 11 months Jay Glick 2 February 2015 11 months John Nicholas 29 August 2015 18 months External Advisers During the year, Kepler Associates, New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd and Pearl Meyer and Partners were engaged by the Committee to provide remuneration consultancy services.
All firms were subject to a formal tender process prior to appointment and are regarded as independent having been appointed by and acting under direction of the Committee.
The total cost of advice to the Committee over the year to 31 December 2016 was $49,073 2015 $164,913 and reflects fees paid in respect of the review of remuneration, share plans and the remuneration reporting disclosure requirements.
These fees were charged on a time incurred basis for the provision of these services.
Shareholder Voting at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM At the AGM of the Company held in April 2016, the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: Number of votes % of votes cast For 97,591,261 90.7 Against 9,990,406 9.3 i Votes withheld 6,719 Total votes cast 107,588,386 100.0 i.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not included in the calculation of the % of votes cast.
The current Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2014 AGM, following the receipt of 91.5% votes for the resolution.
Development of a new Directors Remuneration Policy During the latter part of 2016, the Committee reviewed the shareholder approved Directors Remuneration Policy and concluded that no material amendments were required.
Certain minor amendments were incorporated to the revised Policy, which reflect guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and GC100 group and other parties since 2014.
The amendments focus on the area of Committee discretion and the likely operation of discretion for the period of the next policy.
As no major amendments were proposed following this review, shareholders were not consulted on the new 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy.
The revised Policy will be tabled for shareholder approval on 12 April 2017.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 72 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Director Remuneration audited Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Annual Total salary cash HPSP Other remuneration i ii iii iv vi ix fees Benefits Pension Sub total bonus awards Sub total remuneration 2016 2016 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executives Dennis Proctor 786 73 82 941 309 309 1,250 Peter Rose 404 30 244 678 87 87 765 Non-executives x Annell Bay 81 81 81 x Jay Glick 81 81 81 xi John Hofmeister 108 108 108 xii Richard Hunting 167 167 167 xi John Nicholas 95 95 95 Total 1,722 103 326 2,151 396 396 2,547 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Annual PSP Total salary cash LTIP Other remuneration i ii iii v vii viii ix fees Benefits Pension Sub total bonus awards Sub total remuneration 2015 2015 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executives Dennis Proctor 786 71 174 1,031 1,031 Peter Rose 456 44 60 560 560 Non-executives x Annell Bay 84 84 84 x Jay Glick 84 84 84 xi John Hofmeister 122 122 122 xii Richard Hunting 296 296 296 xi John Nicholas 107 107 107 Total 1,935 115 234 2,284 2,284 Notes: i.
Executive Directors salaries and non-executive Director fees were frozen during 2016.
The movement in the :$ exchange rate in the year has the effect of showing ayear-on-year decrease for the majority of Board members with the exception of Dennis Proctor whose base salary is determined and paid in US dollars.
Average :$exchange rate in the year was 1.3554 2015 1.5286. ii.
Benefits include the provision of healthcare insurance, a company car and fuel benefits.
Dennis Proctors single figure pension remuneration represents the total Company contributions paid to his US pension arrangements.
Up to 30 June 2016, PeterRose contributed to the Defined Benefit section of the Hunting Pension Scheme operated in the UK.
From 1 July 2016, Mr Rose received a cash sum in lieu of apension contribution.
Mr Roses 2016 single figure pension remuneration has therefore been calculated in a consistent way in accordance with the regulations and represents 20 times the increase in his accrued pension over 2015 after allowing for CPI inflation and deducting his own pension contributions for the first six months of the year totalling $193,822, with his pro-rated cash sum added to this figure for the last six months of 2016 totalling $50,489.
As noted in the Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, there were no annual bonus awards made to the executive Directors during 2016. v. There were no annual bonus awards made to the executive Directors during 2015. vi.
The 2014 awards under the HPSP had a three-year performance period to 31 December 2016.
The performance conditions, as noted in the Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman on pages 61 and 62, were measured in Sterling at the end of the performance period by Kepler Associates resulting in a nil vesting.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 12 April 2017, the Remuneration Committee is proposing exercising discretion to remeasure the TSR performance condition using the domestic currencies of each member of the comparator group to approve a 49.9% vesting of the TSR portion of the 2014 HPSP award, being equivalent to 16.63% vesting of the total award value.
On this basis, and conditional on shareholder approval at the AGM of the Remuneration Committee exercising its discretion to remeasure the TSR using domestic currencies of each member of the comparator group of the TSR, 42,423 Ordinary shares would be awarded to Dennis Proctor and 12,016 Ordinary shares would be awarded to Peter Rose on 1 May 2017.
For the purposes of the single figure noted above, the average share price across the final quarter of 2016 was adopted, being 539.4 pence and a foreign exchange rate of 1.2357 being the :$ exchange rate as at 31December 2016 was applied to the value of this award.
Dividends paid in the period, totalling 60.8 cents per vested share were added to the value of the award, inline with the rules of the HPSP.
Final award values will be recorded in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The 2013 awards under the PSP had a three-year performance period to 20 March 2016.
The awards were measured on this date against the performance conditions, with a nil vesting recorded.
No payments were therefore made to the executive Directors.
In accordance with the rules under the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the three-year cycle ending 31 December 2015, the incentive pool was $nil, resulting in no payments to either Dennis Proctor or Peter Rose.
Other remuneration represents additional UK tax payable under a tax equalisation agreement, where applicable.
x. Annell Bay and Jay Glick were appointed as Directors on 2 February 2015. xi.
John Hofmeister receives additional fees as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
John Nicholas receives an additional fee as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Richard Huntings annual fee was reduced to $135,540 100,000, effective from 1 April 2016.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 73 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The remuneration of Richard Hunting, Peter Rose and the non-executive Directors is originally denominated in Sterling and is as follows: Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Annual Total salary cash HPSP remuneration fees Benefits Pension Sub total bonus awards Sub total 2016 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives Peter Rose 298 22 180 500 70 70 570 Non-executives i Annell Bay 60 60 60 i Jay Glick 60 60 60 ii John Hofmeister 80 80 80 iii Richard Hunting 123 123 123 ii John Nicholas 70 70 70 Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Base Annual PSP Total salary cash LTIP remuneration fees Benefits Pension Sub total bonus awards Sub total 2015 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives Peter Rose 298 29 39 366 366 Non-executives i Annell Bay 55 55 55 i Jay Glick 55 55 55 ii John Hofmeister 80 80 80 iii Richard Hunting 194 194 194 ii John Nicholas 70 70 70 Notes: i. Annell Bay and Jay Glick were appointed as Directors on 2 February 2015. ii.
John Hofmeister receives additional fees as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and John Nicholas receives an additional fee as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Richard Huntings fee was reduced to 100,000 with effect from 1 April 2016.
Salary and Fees In December 2015, the executive Directors reviewed the independent non-executive Directors fees, which resulted in no changes being made for 2016.
Further, in March 2016, the Committee met to discuss adjustments to the base salaries of the executive Directors.
Following discussion, and recognising the prevailing market conditions that Hunting operates within, the Committee decided again to freeze base salaries for 2016.
Pensions audited Dennis Proctor is a member of a deferred compensation scheme in the US, which is anticipated to provide a cash lump sum on hisretirement.
In practice, this scheme is administered and operated on a money purchase basis.
In 2016, the Group contributed $65,802 2015 $158,589 to that arrangement.
There are no additional benefits provided on early retirement from this arrangement.
The Group also contributed $15,900 in 2016 2015 $15,900 to his US 401K deferred savings plan.
During 2016, Peter Roses pension arrangements were amended following the decision by the Group to cease contributions to the defined benefit section of the Hunting Pension Scheme the Scheme operated in the UK.
As a member of the Scheme, Mr Rose contributed to the Pension Scheme up to 30 June 2016, the date on which all Group contributions ceased.
Following consultation with the Committees independent remuneration advisors, Mr Rose has been compensated for this loss of benefit by a cash suminlieu of a company pension contribution to the value of 25% of his annual base salary.
This arrangement was effective from 1 July 2016.
Mr Roses single figure pension contribution noted on page 73 reflects the Groups net increase to the accruals of theScheme, multiplied by the HMRC multiple of 20, totalling $193,822, with his cash lump sum of $50,489 added to this figure,  received in lieu of a pension contribution.
Mr Roses accrued pension as at 31 December 2016 amounted to$167,000 p. a.
He is able to retire on 24 October 2018 age 60, his normal retirement age in that scheme, without any reduction on his main scheme benefits although there is a small part of his pension that is payable only from age 62 without reduction.
With Company consent, Peter Rose is able to retire without any actuarial reduction for early retirement applied tohis accrued pension.
Annual Performance-Linked Cash Bonus Plan audited The annual performance-linked cash bonus plan entitles the executive Directors to cash bonus payments when the actual financial results of the Group achieve pre-set financial targets based on the Groups Annual Budget.
The bonus has the potential to be adjusted to reflect the delivery of personal performance targets.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 74 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The approved Annual Budget reflected the prevailing market conditions across the energy sector, with the 2016 budgeted underlying PBT and ROCE being set at $29.8m and 2.4% respectively.
Underlying PBT and ROCE reported in 2016 were a loss of $93.2m and -7.7% respectively.
Due to the 2016 outturn, no annual bonus was payable to either executive Director.
In January 2016, the Committee set personal performance targets for each executive Director.
The targets and outcome, including the personal performance adjustor applied to the bonus, of each executive Director are summarised below: Description of target Assessment and outcome Strategic Planning The Committee reviewed the delivery of the 2016 personal performance objectives by Dynamic Leadership in a Volatile Period the executive Directors and agreed that each Target had been delivered.
In particular Succession Chief Executive only the Committee noted the leadership by the executive Directors during the current Organisational Effectiveness Finance subdued trading environment.
However, given that the threshold vesting performance Director only conditions had not been met, no bonuses were paid to the executive Directors.
The 2015 actual results also failed to meet the annual budgeted underlying PBT and ROCE targets, resulting in no bonus payments tothe executive Directors.
2014 HPSP Vesting audited On 31 December 2016, the 2014 awards under the HPSP were measured against the performance conditions following completion ofthe three-year performance period.
The performance conditions are noted on page 65 and include: underlying diluted EPS: underlying ROCE: and relative TSR against a comparator group of 38 companies.
A summary of the three-year EPS and ROCE performance is detailed below: 2013 Reported three-year Required threshold % Vesting Base year 2014 2015 2016 performance vesting target outcome Underlying diluted EPS 94.5c 100.0c 3.1c -45.3c Negative 6.0% Nil Underlying ROCE 12.3% 13.1% 1.1% -7.7% Average 2.2% 12.0% Nil The Total Shareholder Return performance condition as set out in the award was measured by Kepler Associates and resulted in a nil vesting.
The performance condition, as set out in the award, required the TSR performance condition to be measured in UK Sterling, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
This basis of comparison was new to this plan: prior plans were measured on a domestic currency basis.
The Committee noted this change in methodology and other operational factors to the determination of TSR, including Huntings US$ based operations and reporting currency, the percentage of employees domiciled in the US and that the majority of the HPSP comparator group are located in North America and concluded that a domestic currency basis would be more appropriate for the TSR performance condition.
Other considerations to this proposal included the currency volatility, particularly between the US$ and Sterling during the 2014-2016 performance period which also affects other subsisting awards and also the Committees belief that the industry environment is improving and that retention of key management is imperative as noted in the Groups Principal Risks in the short to medium term.
The Committee therefore decided to consult shareholders on changing the method of measurement for TSR in February 2017 and a resolution is being submitted to shareholders for approval atthe Companys April 2017 AGM to seek confirmation of this change for future and subsisting awards.
Conditional on shareholder approval, the Committee is proposing to use domestic currencies in comparing TSRs for all HPSP awards, including the maiden HPSP award which vests on 1 May 2017, providing consistency for management and shareholders, rather than introducing a fundamental change to the way the TSR is calibrated.
The Committee intends to continue using this basis for all future cycles.
Theremeasurement resulted in a 49.9% vesting of this segment of the award, given an above median performance against the comparator group, which corresponds to a vesting of 16.63% of the total awards granted to the executive Directors in 2014, subject to shareholder approval being received.
This partial vesting would lead to 42,423 Ordinary shares being awarded to Dennis Proctor and 12,016 Ordinary shares being awarded to Peter Rose on 1 May 2017, the vesting date of the awards.
For the purposes of the single figure table on page 73, the value of the awards corresponds with the number of vested shares, multiplied by the average share price of Hunting PLC across the final quarter of 2016 of 539.4 pence, applying a :$ exchange rate of 1.2357, being the :$ exchange rate as at 31 December 2016.
Dividends paid during the performance period totalling 60.8 cents per share were added to the value of the award.
The total award value to Dennis Proctor was determined to be $308,558 and the award to Peter Rose was determined to be $87,397.
The final value of the awards to both executive Directors following vesting, will be recorded in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2013 PSP Vesting audited The 2013 awards granted under the PSP were measured by New Bridge Street on 20 March 2016 and resulted in a zero vesting.
The2013 awards to the Chief Executive and Finance Director duly lapsed with no shares vesting for either executive Director.
2013 LTIP Vesting audited On 31 December 2015, the 2013 award under the LTIP for the three-year period commencing 1 January 2013 was measured in accordance with the plan rules and resulted in an incentive pool of $nil.
As a result of this, no payments were made to either executive Director.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 75 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED 2016 HPSP Grant audited On 11 March 2016, the Committee approved the allocation of nil-cost share awards to Dennis Proctor and nil-cost options to Peter Rose under the rules of the HPSP.
Awards will vest on 11 March 2019, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions detailed on page 65 of the Policy.
Details of the grant are as follows: Face value of award at Face value of threshold vesting maximum award Award as % of Number of shares of 25% vesting at 100% Director base salary awarded $ $ Dennis Proctor 450% 589,593 794,426 3,177,703 Peter Rose 210% 166,991 225,006 900,024 The targets for each performance condition are as follows: Performance condition Threshold vesting target Maximum vesting target TSR Median Upper Quartile i EPS 4% 15% i ROCE 10% 17% i.
Averaged over the three-year performance period The following quoted businesses comprise the TSR comparator group for the 2016 award: Aker Solutions Oil States International Dril-Quip Schoeller-Bleckmann Flotek Industries Superior Energy Services FMC Technologies Tenaris Forum Energy Technologies Vallourec Franks International Weatherford International National Oilwell Varco Weir Group The face value of the 2016 award is based on the closing mid-market share price on 11 March 2016, which was 374.75 pence.
In2016, the Committee incorporated a fourth performance condition to the HPSP, based on Huntings Quality Assurance data, forsenior managers of the Group.
The awards to the executive Directors do not incorporate this additional performance condition.
Payments to Past Directors and for Loss of Office audited No payments were made in the year to past Directors or in respect of loss of office.
Directors Shareholdings, Ownership Policy and Share Interests audited The beneficial interests of the Directors in the issued Ordinary shares of the Company are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December i Director 2016 2015 Non-executive Chairman Richard Hunting 466,583 463,306 as trustee 979,049 979,049 as Director of Hunting Investments Limited 11,073,487 11,073,487 Executives Dennis Proctor 1,748,544 1,748,544 Peter Rose 87,923 86,864 Non-executives Annell Bay 8,000 3,500 Jay Glick 13,500 13,500 John Hofmeister 25,000 25,000 John Nicholas 11,000 11,000 i.
Beneficial share interests are those Ordinary shares owned by the Director or spouse which the Director is free to dispose of.
There have been no further changes to the Directors share interests in the period 31 December 2016 to 2 March 2017.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 76 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION In 2014, the Group implemented a share ownership policy that requires Directors and certain senior executives within the Group to build up a holding in shares equal in value to a certain multiple of their base salary or annual fee.
The multiple takes into account the post-tax value of vested but unexercised share awards or options.
The required shareholding of each Director and the current shareholding as a multiple of base salary as at 31 December 2016 is presented below: Required holding expressed as a multiple of Value of holding in shares including the post-tax value of vested but unexercised share Director base salary or fee awards and options expressed as a multiple of base salary or fee as at 31 December 2016 Dennis Proctor 5 17.3 Peter Rose 2 1.9 Annell Bay 1 0.8 Jay Glick 1 1.4 Richard Hunting 1 29.3 John Hofmeister 1 2.0 John Nicholas 1 1.0 Directors have five years from 1 January 2014 or from the date of appointment to the Board in which to satisfy the shareholding requirement.
The interests of the executive Directors over Ordinary shares of the Group under the ESOP, PSP and HPSP are set out below: The vesting of options and awards are subject to performance conditions set out within the Policy on pages 68 and 69.
Nil-cost share awards which are not yet vested or exercisable and still subject to the performance conditions being measured in accordance with the HPSP rules.
Nil-cost share options which are not yet vested or exercisable and still subject to the performance conditions being measured in accordance with the HPSP rules.
On 4 March 2016, under the rules of the Hunting PLC Executive Share Option Plan, Mr Proctor exercised 104,178 share options at a price of 383.0 pence per share and subsequently sold them at 430.0 pence per share.
On the same day, Mr Rose exercised 18,277 share options at a price of 383.0 pence per share.
Mr Rose subsequently sold 17,218 Ordinary shares in order to cover tax and exercise costs at a price of 430.0 pence per Ordinary share and retained 1,059 Ordinary shares.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 77 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Executive Director Remuneration and the Wider Workforce The changes to the remuneration of the Chief Executive in 2016 compared to 2015 and those of the total workforce are as follows: Chief Average Executive employee Base salary Nil 3.6% Bonus Nil -100.0% Benefits 2.8% 12.8% Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the relative importance of spend on employee remuneration in relation to corporate taxation, dividends and capital investment.
The choice of performance metrics represents certain operating costs of the Group and the use of operating cash flows in delivering long-term shareholder value.
Includes staff costs for the year note 9 plus benefits in kind of $30.5m 2015 $39.9m which primarily comprises US medical insurance costs.
Please refer to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 91.
Executive Director Remuneration and Shareholder Returns The following chart compares the TSR of Hunting PLC between 2008 and 2016 to the DJ Stoxx TM Oil Equipment, Services and Distribution and DJ US Oil Equipment and Services indices.
In the opinion of the Directors, these indices are the most appropriate indices against which the shareholder return of the Companys shares should be compared because they comprise other companies in the oil and gas services sector.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN REBASED TO 100 AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 350 350 300 300 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 31 12 08 31 12 09 31 12 10 31 12 11 31 12 12 31 12 13 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 16 Hunting PLC DJ US Oil Equipment & Services DJ Stoxx TM Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 78 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Summary Table of Chief Executives Remuneration The accompanying table details remuneration of the Chief Executive: Single figure Annual ESOP PSP i remuneration cash bonus HPSP LTIP ii iii iv $000 % % vesting % award 2016 1,250 Nil 17 n a 2015 1,031 Nil Nil Nil 2014 4,808 57 Nil 100 2013 4,442 42 Nil 100 2012 5,497 75 66 100 2011 3,261 100 Nil 31 2010 1,876 100 100 5 2009 2,363 17 100 62 i.
Single figure remuneration reflects the aggregate remuneration paid to the Chief Executive as defined within the Directors Remuneration Policy located at www.
Annual cash bonus percentages reflect the bonus received by the Chief Executive each year expressed as a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity.
Percentage vesting reflects the % of the ESOP that vested in the financial year and the % of the PSP and HPSP where a substantial portion of the performance period was completed at the financial year end.
LTIP award percentage reflects the award value expressed as a percentage of maximum award opportunity received each year measured at 31 December.
The LTIP expired in 2015, with no further awards outstanding.
Implementation of Policies in 2017 The remuneration policies for 2017 will be applied in line with those detailed on pages 63 to 71.
The revised Directors Remuneration Policy to be tabled at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 12 April 2017 can be found on pages 63 to 71 or on the Companys website at www.
In December 2016, the Board concluded that in the current trading environment there would be no changes made to fees payable to the non-executive Directors for 2017.
In February 2017, the Committee met to discuss base salary changes for the executive Directors, and concluded that due to the poor market environment in which the Company operated in during the year, including the reduction in workforce programme, that there would be no change to the base salaries payable to the executive Directors for 2017.
The annual performance-linked cash bonus for 2017 will be operated in line with the Policy detailed on page 64.
The Committee will disclose details of the retrospective performance against the pre-set financial and personal performance targets, as the Board believes that forward disclosure of these targets is commercially sensitive.
The Committee plans to grant nil-cost share awards or options to the Chief Executive and Finance Director under the HPSP in March 2017.
The awards will be in line with the rules of the HPSP and subject to the following performance conditions: Proportion of awards Performance conditions Minimum performance target Maximum performance target One-third TSR 25% vests if median performance against a 100% vests if an upper quartile performance against comparator group of companies is achieved.
a comparator group of companies is achieved.
One-third Underlying EPS 25% vests if the EPS in 2019 is 40 cents 100% vests if the EPS in 2019 is 60 cents pershare.
One-third Underlying ROCE 25% vests if ROCE in 2019 is 8%.
JOHN HOFMEISTER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 2 March 2017 Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 79
