Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56 Audit Committee Report continued Fair, balanced and understandable The external audit and review of its effectiveness It is the Boards responsibility to determine whether the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee advises the Board on the appointment reThe Committee reviewed the process for preparing the 2016 appointment of the external auditors and their effectiveness, Annual Report & Accounts, reviewed managements analysis of independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature and the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts and how this met the results of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the objectives of providing fair, balanced and understandable review of the effectiveness of the external audit process, a formal disclosures, before forming the conclusion to recommend the evaluation process incorporating views from the Committee 2016 Annual Report & Accounts be approved by the Board as fair, and relevant members of management was considered by balanced and understandable.
The Committees role in that the Committee.
process is covered on page 46.
These reviews included: n the effectiveness of the external audit firm: Internal controls and risk management n quality controls: The Audit Committee supports the Boards assessment of principal risks and the Boards review of the Groups internal n the audit team: financial controls, as well as the internal controls and risk n audit fee: management processes.
n audit communications and effectiveness: Internal Audit n governance and independence: The Committee acknowledges the importance of an effective n ethical standards: and Internal Audit function and commissioned RSM to undertake a health-check of the Groups current Internal Audit arrangements n potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
and the wider control environment.
That report concluded that the The Committee has written Terms of Reference, which have Group had established a strong culture and control discipline and been published on the Companys corporate website at that the internal control framework operated effectively and was www.
In addition, the Committee has broadly similar to internal control frameworks operating within formalised an annual plan to address the key areas for review, other comparable listed organisations.
Nonetheless, opportunities the reports from which will highlight to the Board any required for further improvement were identified, including the greater developments in its risk management systems.
formalisation of the Groups risk management framework and establishing a reporting programme to the Audit Committee, which In addition to the review of the formal management letter from the have been addressed by management in the year.
The report also external auditors which outlines how points raised by them have recommended the creation of an outsourced Internal Audit been addressed by management, feedback is sought from the function.
During the year, following on from the health-check of external auditors on the conduct of members of the finance team Internal Audit arrangements and the wider control environment, during the audit process.
In addition, I have met with the lead audit the Group outsourced the Internal Audit function to RSM, who partner outside the formal Committee process.
perform a rolling programme of audits considering the design The external auditors are responsible for the annual statutory and operation of key controls within operational, accounting and audits of the Groups subsidiaries and other services which the IT processes.
Committee believe they are best placed to provide.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management in the external audit process in respect of the timely identification and resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from the external auditors as appropriate: and the timely provision of the draft half year results announcement and Annual Report & Accounts for review by the auditors and the Committee.
Having undertaken its review, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditor has been independent and effective.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 Audit tender Fraud, whistleblowing and the Bribery Act Following the sale by CRH plc in 2015, the Group retained the The Committee monitors any reported incidents under its existing external auditors, who had been auditors for the preceding whistleblowing policy.
This policy is included in the Employee 23 years.
Consistent with best practice, the Committee conducted Handbook and sets out the procedure for employees to raise a competitive tender process for the appointment of the Groups legitimate concerns about any wrongdoing in financial reporting external auditors during the autumn.
or other matters such as: In September 2016, the Group decided to review its audit n potentially unlawful acts: arrangements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and initiated n miscarriage of justice: a competitive tender process.
Management invited four audit firms to take part in the process, including EY.
Carousel days were n danger to the health and safety of any individual: held, at which each firm met with several members of management, n damage to the environment: or including the CFO and senior financial management from across the Group.
Formal proposal documents were submitted by the n improper conduct.
Each firm gave a presentation to a panel led by the Audit There were no concerns notified to the Group that required the Committee Chairman.
attention of the Committee during the period under review and up Following the detailed and thorough process, the Committee to the date of this report.
The Committee also reviews the Groups decided to recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP be procedure for detecting fraud and the systems and controls in appointed as the Groups auditors, to audit the financial statements place to prevent a breach of anti-bribery legislation.
The Group is for the year commencing 1 January 2017. committed to a zero-tolerance position with regard to bribery.
Anti-bribery guidance and training is provided to certain employees A resolution proposing the appointment of Deloitte LLP will be put applying what the Group has determined to be a risk-based and to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on proportionate approach.
The Group maintains a record of all 24May 2017.
The Committee and the Board would like to thank employees who have received this guidance and training.
EY for their high professional standards and all they have done to provide assurance to the Board and shareholders during their Committee effectiveness time as the Groups auditors.
The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed by both the Audit fee and non-audit services Board and the Committee, in compliance with the Governance Code.
The evaluation was conducted by external facilitators, Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor are set in Note 6 EquityCommunications Limited, in the late autumn of 2016 and to the Group consolidated financial statements.
During the year EY took the form of a questionnaire completed by all members of the has provided tax compliance services in respect of the US Board and the Company Secretary.
A report on the outcome of business.
With this exception, and in line with good practice, EY the evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was prepared by does not provide taxation services for the Group.
Such services EquityCommunications Limited and presented to the Board.
The are currently provided by  LLP and RSM conclusion drawn from the review was that the Committee US LLP.
During the year EY were commissioned to provide a operates effectively.
report to the Board on Cyber Security risk.
The Committee considers that it has acted in accordance with its The non-audit services policy sets out clearly the non-audit Terms of Reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity services that may be provided by the external auditor.
Under the and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
policy, prior approval is required by the Committee for any non-statutory assignments where the fee would exceed 10,000, The Company has complied for the year, and up to the date of this or where such an assignment would take the cumulative total of report, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large non-audit fees paid to the external auditors over 70% of that years Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive statutory audit fees.
However, when appropriate, a detailed Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities calculation will be performed to ensure that the Group is compliant Order2014.
with the European Unions New Statutory Audit Framework, which Jonathan Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee applies to our 2017 financial year.
7 March 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58 Directors Remuneration Report Members of the Committee as at the date of this report: n Lynn Minella Chair n Tracey Graham n Jonathan Nicholls n Jamie Pike n Justin Read Structure of the report n Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement pages 58 and 59.
Lynn Minella Chair of the Remuneration Committee n Directors Remuneration Report At a glance pages 60 and 61. n Annual Report on Remuneration including the summary Remuneration Committee approved Remuneration Policy pages 62 to 73.
Chairs Annual Statement The Remuneration Committee reviews the Policy on an ongoing Dear Shareholder, basis and is comfortable that it remains appropriate as the structure by which to incentivise and motivate the leadership team As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to implement the Companys strategic goals and ensure they are to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended aligned with shareholder expectations heading into the 2017 31 December 2016. financial year.
Throughout the year the Group has continued to develop following Wayne Sheppard, who had been a member of the Committee our IPO in 2015, despite the uncertainty arising from events such since Admission, stood down from the Committee on 24 February as Brexit and the US Presidential Election.
Even though the year 2016, following the appointment of Lynn Minella and Tracey Graham.
has been marked by unpredictable market conditions, the Group has made good headway in 2016.
Turnover has increased by 5% Company highlights for the 2016 financial to 435 million and adjusted EBITDA increased to 112 million period 2015: 107 million.
In the UK we experienced a slow-down in sales in the weeks leading up to the EU Referendum, but shortly Financial highlights for the year include: after the result was announced sales volumes in all UK businesses n Group revenue 435 million: were comparable to, and eventually exceeded, the prior year.
n Profit before tax 111 million: and The UK housing developer market in the UK grew during 2016, however the fide-stocking by builders merchants meant that this did n Adjusted EBITDA 112 million: not flow through to increased brick sales volumes in the first half reflecting the underlying strength of the business.
As merchants stock returned to more normal levels, brick sales increased in the second half year, resulting in a full year result Operational highlights include: slightly ahead of 2015.
The concrete businesses experienced n UK Concrete products have performed well: volumes and pricing ahead of those experienced in the prior year.
Supreme was aided by healthy demand for its products in RMI and n Sales price increases were secured in our key US sales domestic landscaping, whilst Forticrete benefitted from continued channels: and growth in the new build housing sector.
Glen-Gery, in the US, n Major capital projects progressing well and to schedule.
delivered another year of progress.
In addition to our operational highlights, following a full consultation Against this backdrop, the Committee is keenly aware of the with affected members, the Ibstock Defined Benefit Pension sensitivity of the public and shareholders regarding executive Scheme closed to future accruals from 31 January 2017. remuneration.
In such an environment the Committees focus is therefore to ensure that our Remuneration Policy supports the Further details of performance against the Companys key Groups goals to extend its position in the building products performance indicators are detailed on pages 18 and 19 and industry, to ensure that remuneration remains linked to Company the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31. performance and to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 The annual bonus for our Executive Directors which is based 60% Shareholder engagement on the Groups financial performance, 20% on strategic measures The Remuneration Policy received strong support from our and 20% on individual objectives reflect the overall Group shareholders resulting in 99.36% vote in favour at our Annual performance this year and paid out at 64%-66% of target levels General Meeting on 26 May 2016.
The Annual Report on 32%-33% of maximum opportunity.
Further details of the annual Remuneration received a 99.99% support from the shareholders.
bonus targets for the year and performance against those targets are provided on page 63.
We will continue to engage with our shareholders in a two-way communication process to maintain this support and to ensure we Remuneration Committee decisions made have a transparent executive reward structure aligned to during 2016 shareholder experience.
If you would like to discuss any further aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views.
The Companys remuneration strategy is designed to motivate our Lynn Minella senior leaders to deliver the Companys strategic objectives, Chair of the Remuneration Committee ensure customer focus based on quality and consistency and drive 7 March 2017 long-term value for our shareholders.
These core elements are captured in our incentive framework for the Executive Directors.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large Further details of how our incentives and their measures align to and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code the the Companys key strategic objectives is found on page 60.
Governance Code and the Listing Rules.
The report consists of two sections: The Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2016 AGM on n T he Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and associated 26 May 2016 and the Committee believe that it supports Ibstocks At a glance section: and business and remuneration strategy.
No changes have been made n T he Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to the Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration to the Policy or its proposed operation for next year.
Key decisions made by the Committee during, and for, the financial The Chairs Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
year include: n The Committee considered the base salaries for the Executive Directors and awarded 2.2% increases to Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims, in line with the increase provided to the employee population.
n The decision that Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims should receive an annual performance bonus in respect of 2016 equal to 41% and 40% of base salary respectively reflects performance against the measures for the year.
n 2016 LTIP awards for Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims of 100% of salary.
The grant levels and performance targets for the LTIP are consistent with the normal award policy further details of the awards are provided on page 64.
There was no LTIP vesting this year as the first awards under the plan were made in 2016. n Reviewed the proposed changes to the Ibstock Defined Benefit Pension Scheme, as highlighted on page 58. n Established Long-Term Incentive Plan targets for 2016: 50% EPS growth and 50% on relative TSR see page 64.
Further details on how our Remuneration Policy will be applied in practice for the 2017 financial year are set out on page 69.
From 1 January 2017, we welcomed Justin Read onto the Remuneration Committee.
Justin brings a wealth of experience, including from roles held at Segro and Speedy Hire that will be of great benefit to Ibstock as we continue to develop our business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 60 Directors Remuneration Report continued Our core principles of remuneration At a glance n To ensure senior executives are attracted, retained and motivated to drive the strategic development of the Company: Introduction n To incentivise the management team in extending the In this section, we: Companys position in the building products industry: and 1 set out the purpose of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage n To deliver long-term sustainable growth.
to our corporate strategic objectives: and The key elements of the Companys strategy and how its 2 set out the remuneration outcomes for the 2016 financial year.
successful implementation is linked to the Companys remuneration are set out in the following table.
Our Remuneration Policy and its link to our Group strategy The Groups strategy is laid out on pages 11 to 17.
Ensuring the alignment of the proposed Remuneration Policy to the Company strategy was key for the Remuneration Committee in developing the proposed Policy below in conjunction with our core principles of remuneration.
Strategic priorities Retain and Equity reward the Continuing to focus on a safe Invest in new capacity and ownership Executive working environment that has the optimise output to take advantage and team to development of employees and of structural imbalances in the Penetrate markets further retention deliver the Remuneration Policy customer service at its core Groups market through innovation of shares strategy Annual bonus metrics The maximum bonus Net Promoter Score NPS Return on Capital Employed ROCE, Adjusted EBITDA, including any part of the and Lost Time Accidents ROCE, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Cash Flow, NPS bonus deferred into an LTA Adjusted Cash Flow Annual Deferred Bonus The efficient development of Plan ADBP Award These measures target The success in maximising innovative products measured deliverable under the customer satisfaction and operational excellence will be through ROCE and NPS ADBP will not exceed health and safety in the reflected through increased performance will be reflected 125% of a participants workplace and therefore profitability and cash flow and the in increased profitability and annual base salary.
efficiency of any investment made cash flow.
LTIP metrics Maximum annual award is Adjusted Earnings per Share TSR normally 100% of salary.
Adjusted EPS, Total The generation of cash and Awards will vest at the Shareholder Return TSR profit growth targeted by the end of three years.
The success in maximising annual bonus will help enhance For 2017, the performance operational excellence will be the value of the Company which conditions for awards are measured through the long-term will be measured through the equally weighted between: Adjusted EPS growth targeted by success of the Companys TSR the LTIP.
In addition, sustained performance against its n Adjusted Earnings per value generation will be reflected comparators a performance Share growth: and in the share price of the Company condition under the LTIP.
n comparative Total which will be measured through Shareholder Return the Companys TSR performance TSR.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Sharesave Plan Minimum shareholding requirements n Chief Executive Officer 200% of salary.
n Chief Financial Officer 150% of salary.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61 2016 financial period Annual bonus outcomes Our 2016 bonus outcomes outlined below reflect the performance measures and targets put in place during our 2016 financial period and their level of satisfaction.
The bonus measures for the Executive Directors are aligned to the Companys KPIs which are outlined on pages 18 and 19.
Bonus value achieved 2016 bonus measures Wayne Sheppard Kevin Sims Adjusted EBITDA 20%, Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20%, ROCE 20%, Net Promoter Score 10%, 174,300 115,309 Lost Time Accidents 10%, Personal Objectives 20% The Company achieved between the threshold and target performance level set for adjusted EBITDA and ROCE metrics, but was below threshold for adjusted operating cash flow target.
Group non-financial measures performance was below threshold for Net Promoter Score and on target for Lost Time Accidents.
The total payout was 64%-66% of the target bonus 32%-33% of maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary for the two Executive Directors.
Two thirds of the 2016 bonus was paid in cash and one third was deferred into shares for a period of three years.
Further detail of the bonus outcomes can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 63.
Single figure remuneration for our Executive Directors We set out below the single figure remuneration for the two Executive Directors: Executive Directors 2015 total 2016 total Wayne Sheppard CEO 773,309 788,685 Kevin Sims CFO 495,520 509,544 The base salaries for the 2015 single figure was a combination of the preand post-IPO salaries paid to the Executive Directors which are lower than the 2016 salaries which was for the full year of Ibstock as a listed Company.
This offsets some of the difference in the annual bonus payout.
The single figure table containing information for the 2015 and 2016 financial year for the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are set out in detail on pages 62 and 65 respectively.
Equity exposure of the Executive Directors Both Executive Directors have shareholdings substantially in excess of the Companys minimum shareholding requirements which are currently 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% for the Chief Financial Officer.
The following chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors at 31 December 2016.
Shareholding requirements as % of salary Wayne Sheppard Shareholding requirement 200% Value of bene cially owned shares 4,957% Value of gain on interests over shares 95% i. e. unvested unexercised awards Kevin Sims Shareholding requirement 150% Value of bene cially owned shares 4,722% Value of gain on interests over shares 95% i. e. unvested unexercised awards The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2016 are set out in detail on page 65.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 62 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration Audited Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2016 financial year to 31 December 2016.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the UK disclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
The salary figure comprises of 208,548 in relation to his role as Executive Director from 26 February 2015 to IPO and 70,833 following the IPO 2 months pro-rata on his post-IPO salary of 425,000 to the end of the financial year.
2 2015 salary for Kevin Sims is the salary paid from March to December 2015, corresponding to the period he was an Executive Director for the financial year.
The salary figure comprises of 135,926 in relation to his role as Executive Director from 26 February 2015 to IPO and 48,333 following the IPO 2 months pro-rata on his post-IPO salary of 290,000 to the end of the financial year.
3 Taxable benefits included company car allowance, private health cover, death in service cover and income protection.
4 No LTIP award vested in the year.
The first grant of LTIP awards was made in 2016 and will vest in 2019.
5 Comprises of the value of Defined Benefit Pension Scheme DB accruals and salary supplements in lieu of pension.
See note on following page for further details.
6 SAYE grant under the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan.
An SAYE option over 11,842 shares granted on 9 December 2015 with an exercise price of 152 pence awarded at a discount of 20% to the market price of 190 pence.
7 In 2015, the value is for a one-off contractual payment for retention of services during the sale by CRH plc to Bain Capital Europe LLP.
8 2015 single figure has been restated to reflect pension payments corresponding to the changes in salaries made for the Executive Directors in 2015.
The single figure for 2015 for Wayne Sheppard was 762,927 and 487,550 for Kevin Sims.
The payments were processed and made in 2016 but relate to the 2015 financial year.
Taxable benefits Audited Benefits in the 2016 financial year comprised a company car allowance, private health cover, death in service cover and income protection.
In the 2016 financial year, both Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims moved to a car allowance instead of taking a company car.
Kevin Sims car allowance is 15,000 per annum effective from 1 April 2016.
Wayne Sheppards car allowance is 20,000 per annum effective from 19 September 2016.
The car allowance paid in the 2016 financial year, on a pro-rated basis from the point where it was taken, was 11,250 for Kevin Sims and 5,000 for Wayne Sheppard.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 63 Bonus Audited In respect of the 2016 financial period, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Companys results.
Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2016 financial period and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are included in the single figure table.
Percentage of Bonus value achieved Threshold Maximum maximum performance performance Actual performance Wayne Kevin 1 Performance condition Weighting required required performance achieved Sheppard Sims Adjusted EBITDA 20% 107.6m 122.8m 111.6m 6% 32,311 22,048 Adjusted operating cash flow 20% 57.7m 65.8m 56.0m 0% 3 ROCE 20% 17.7% 20.2% 18.1% 4% 19,801 13,511 NPS Net Promoter Score 10% 44% 47% 42% 0% 2 LTAs Lost Time Accidents 10% 22 18 20 5% 26,563 18,125 Personal objectives 20% Achievement of the personal objectives for 17%-18% 95,625 61,625 2016 are outlined below.
Total 100% 32%-33% 174,300 115,309 1 Under the terms of the 2016 annual bonus, 0% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance, 50% for achieving target performance, 100% for achieving maximum performance.
One third of any bonus is deferred for three years into Company shares subject to continued employment.
3 The targets and actual ROCE calculations exclude the add back of amortisation and depreciation relating to the fair value uplift.
Personal objectives for the CEO and CFO for the 2016 financial year and the associated outcomes are outlined below: Name Objective area Notes Wayne Sheppard n Business and vision 60% n Objectives relating to the development and implementation of a post-IPO business were achieved within the Group and Divisions.
n Continued development of the Ibstock business strategy during the year.
n People and talent 20% n Effective strategy covering the Groups senior talent including succession planning was developed and achieved during the year.
n Strategic projects 20% n Objectives relating to key strategic commercial projects and associated Capex control and risk management were achieved during the year.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives was strong and equates to a 90% achievement for this element of the bonus.
Name Objective area Notes Kevin Sims n Business and vision 40% n Management of the Ibstock DB pension scheme and associated changes were achieved during the year.
n Continued development and management of relationships with investors and analysts.
n People and talent 20% n Effective strategy covering the Groups Finance and IT key talent including succession planning was developed and achieved during the year.
n Strategic projects 40% n Successful projects completed during the year including provision of improved technology platforms and internal governance controls.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives was strong and equates to a 85% achievement for this element of the bonus.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in relation to the outcome of the bonus awards.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 64 Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives awarded in 2016 The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2016 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of Maximum award vesting at percentage of threshold face value that Shares Face value on performance could vest 1 Name Award type Date of grant awarded date of grant Percentage Percentage Performance conditions Wayne Sheppard CEO LTIP 18 April 2016 217,502 425,000 25 100 Relative TSR and EPS Kevin Sims CFO LTIP 18 April 2016 148,413 290,000 25 100 Relative TSR and EPS 1 Share price on the date of grant was 1.954.
The awards were granted as nil-cost share options and vesting will be subject to achieving a challenging sliding scale of adjusted EPS and relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and investment trusts over a three-year performance period.
The performance schedule for these measures is as follows: Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Relative TSR 50% Median Upper quartile EPS growth 50% 6% per annum 16% per annum Relative TSR will be measured from the date of grant over a three year period with one month averaging of TSR derive the start and the end values for the calculation.
EPS growth will be measured over three consecutive financial years with the base point for the 2017 award derived from the EPS as at 31 December 2016.
2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan outcomes The first grant of LTIP awards was made under the plan in 2016.
These awards will vest in 2019.
Pension entitlements Audited The following table provides the information required by the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: n the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year-end: n the normal retirement ages: n the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year: n the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any Directors contributions and any increases for inflation: and n any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
For the 2016 financial year Extra information disclosed under 2013 Directors Accrued pension Single figure numbers Remuneration Regulations Value x 20 Pensionable over increase Age at service at As at As at in year net of Normal 31December 31December 31December 31December Salary Directors Total pension retirement Executive Directors 2016 2016 2015 2016 supplement contribution benefits age Wayne Sheppard 57 23 89,393 95,435 52,716 120,840 173,556 60 Kevin Sims 55 30 67,317 70,018 35,500 54,020 89,520 60 Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims were members of the Defined Benefit Scheme until 31 January 2017, when the Scheme closed.
Both Executive Directors declined a 1,000 cash payment arising from the closure of the DB Scheme which was paid to all other members of the Scheme.
They will not participate in the Defined Contribution Scheme and from 1 February 2017, they will receive a 20% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 In the 2016 financial year, Wayne Sheppards pensionable pay under the DB Scheme was capped at 161,420 and Kevin Sims pensionable pay was capped at 112,500.
Each Director received 20% salary supplement in lieu of pension on their salary above these pension caps.
Non-Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director.
3 Non-Executive Directors 2015 fees 2016 fees Roles Jamie Pike 57,211 175,000 Independent Non-Executive Chairman Jonathan Nicholls 19,038 65,000 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lynn Minella n a 55,806 Non-Executive Director Tracey Graham n a 46,774 Non-Executive Director 1 Michel Plantevin 0 0 Non-Executive Director 1 Matthias Boyer Chammard 0 0 Non-Executive Director 2 Justin Read Non-Executive Director 1 Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Chammard represent one of the Companys shareholders and are not remunerated by the Company and receive no payment from Ibstock with respect to their qualifying services as Directors of the Company.
2 Justin Read was appointed to the Board in January 2017.
3 2015 fees represent the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors post-IPO.
Jonathan Nicholls base fee was increased to 50,000 p. a. with effect from 1January 2016.
No other fees have been increased in the financial year.
Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office Audited There were no payments in the financial period.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited Other 4 Shares held directly shares held Options Deferred shares not LTIP interests Shareholding Current subject to subject to Outstanding Shareholding requirement shareholding Beneficially performance performance SAYE requirement 1 2 Director % salary % salary owned conditions conditions Vested Unvested awards met?
Executive Directors Wayne Sheppard 200% 4,957% 11,307,827 n a 217,502 n a n a 11,842 Yes Kevin Sims 150% 4,722% 7,350,087 n a 148,413 n a n a Yes Non-Executive Directors Jamie Pike n a 26,000 n a n a n a n a n a n a Jonathan Nicholls n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Lynn Minella n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Tracey Graham n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 3 Justin Read n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Michel Plantevin n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Matthias Boyer Chammard n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 As at 31 December 2016.
This is based on a closing share price of 186.3 pence at 31 December 2016 and the year-end salaries of the Executive Directors.
Values not calculated for Non-Executive Directors as they are not subject to shareholding requirements.
2 SAYE grants made under the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan.
Awards granted on 9 December 2015 with an exercise price of 152 pence awarded at a discount of 20% to the IPO offer price of 190 pence.
The SAYE options are first exercisable on 1 February 2019.
4 No changes in shareholdings from the year-end to the date of this report.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 66 Directors Remuneration Report continued Fees retained for external Non-Executive Directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain the fees.
Wayne Sheppard is Principal of the Construction Products Association and a Director of the Brick Development Association.
He receives no fees for these appointments.
Kevin Sims does not hold any external directorships.
Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this index since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 27 October 2015 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 27 October 2015 to 31 December 2016.
Total Shareholder Return 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index 200 150 100 50 0 27 Oct 30 Nov 31 Dec 31 Jan 29 Feb 31 Mar 30 Apr 31 May 30 Jun 31 Jul 31 Aug 30 Sep 31 Oct 30 Nov 31 Dec 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Ibstock FTSE 250 Chief Executive Officer historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the period 26 February 2015 to 31 December 2016 valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
The Company did not exist in its current form in 2014 and therefore there is no relevant data before 2015.
Chief Executive Officer 2016 2015 Single total figure 788,685 773,309 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 33% 100% LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a n a No award under the LTIP has vested yet.
The vesting of the first award will be in 2019.
Statement of considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
The remuneration strategy of the Company has been designed to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership Awards under both the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders based on overall corporate performance of the business.
For all UK employees, the Company has adopted an SAYE Scheme and Share Incentive Plan with local equivalents in other jurisdictions intended.
Under the new Plans, all employees will have the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions.
The following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at all levels within the Company.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 67 Remuneration and its link to the Companys objectives Objectives Long-term value creation Strategic and encouraged Financial operational through equity Share Plan Purpose Eligibility performance goals retention ownership SAYE SIP To broaden share All employees.
ownership and share in corporate success over the medium term.
Annual bonus Incentivise and reward Executive Directors, short-term performance.
Senior Executives, senior At senior level an element managers and managers.
of bonus is deferred in shares.
Share Option Plan Broaden share ownership, Senior managers.
LTIP Incentivise and reward Executive Directors and long-term performance.
The Company currently does not use remuneration comparison measurements, nor has it consulted employees directly on the Remuneration Policy.
However, in setting the Remuneration Policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of the Company are taken into account to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company, including data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the Executive Directors, average base salary increases awarded to the overall employee population and the cascade of pay structures throughout the business.
As a Remuneration Committee, we are keenly aware of the sensitivity of shareholders and the wider public regarding remuneration, including the Governments ongoing considerations for reforms to the governance framework in respect of executive pay.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments closely and will comply with best practice reporting requirements as they come into force.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2016 and 2015 financial periods.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Companys accounts.
Disbursements from profit Disbursements from profit in 2016 financial year in 2015 financial year m m Profit distributed by way of dividend 28 0 Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 124 97 Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees % increase decrease in remuneration in 2016 compared with remuneration in 2015 CEO Employees 1 Salary 0% 3% Annual bonus 31% 38% 2 Taxable benefits 17% 0% 1 The 2015 base salary as a plc Executive Director for the Chief Executive Officer was 425,000.
Mr Sheppard declined a salary review on 1 January 2016.
For comparison purposes in the table above, the Company has annualised the 2015 base salary as a plc Executive Director and compared this to the 2016 base salary.
The salary paid to the Chief Executive Officer in 2015 was 330,730 which covers the period preand post-IPO.
A comparison on this basis equates to a 29% rise in salary from 2015 to 2016.
2 To aid the comparison, the total benefits paid to the Chief Executive Officer in 2015 has been annualised.
The percentage change predominately reflects the move from a company car to a company car allowance made during the year by the Executive Directors.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 68 Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of consideration of shareholder views and voting at general meeting The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping Remuneration Policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting the remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Remuneration Policy.
The Committee consulted with the Companys key shareholders along with the Investment Association IA and the Institutional Shareholder Services ISS on the Policy summarised in this report.
The first AGM took place on 26 May 2016, where the new Directors Remuneration Policy was put to a binding vote from our shareholders, and the Annual Report on Remuneration was put to an advisory vote.
The voting outcomes are set out in the table below.
Total votes cast excluding 2016 AGM resolution Votes for % of votes cast Votes against % of votes cast Withheld Votes Withheld Directors' Remuneration Policy 374,209,516 99.36% 2,394,225 0.64% 376,603,741 2,250 Annual Report on Remuneration 375,925,993 99.99% 27,541 0.01% 375,953,534 652,857 On the basis of this strong support from shareholders the Committee does not intend to make any changes to the Policy or its implementation for 2017.
The details for the 2017 financial year are outlined on page 69.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team.
Prior to the establishment of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration decisions were made by the Board of the Company.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of Remuneration Policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
com investors, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: n To determine and agree with the Board the broad Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team: n To review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: and n To review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group and to administer all aspects of any share scheme.
The Committee receives assistance from the Group HR Director and Company Secretary, who will attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasions.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee retained the services of  LLP PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and members of the Executive team.
PwC also provided the Company with tax and accountancy advice during the period.
The Committee is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fixed fees of 58,000 2015: 12,000 were provided to PwC during the period in respect of remuneration advice received.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 Implementation of our Remuneration Policy for the 2017 financial year Our proposed implementation of the Policy for the 2017 financial year is set out below.
Key elements and time period Year 1 2 3 4 5 Overview of Remuneration Policy implementation for 2017 For 2017 base salaries for the CEO and CFO will be 434,350 and Base salary 296,380, respectively, a rise of 2.2% from the previous year in line with the rises for all employees.
The maximum contribution into the defined contribution plan or a Pension salary supplement in lieu of pension will be 20% of gross basic salary.
Standard benefits will be provided, including car allowance 20,000 for Wayne Sheppard, 15,000 for Kevin Sims, private Benefits health cover, death in service cover and income protection.
See page 62 for further details.
For 2017 the maximum bonus opportunity will be 125% of salary for the CEO and CFO.
For 2017, the level of deferral in shares will be one-third of the bonus earned which will vest after three years based on continued employment with the Company.
The Committee can determine the proportion of the bonus earned under the ADBP provided as an award of deferred shares to a Annual and maximum of 50% of bonus earned.
Deferred Bonus Plan ADBP The performance conditions and their weightings for the 2017 annual bonus are as follows: Cash n Adjusted EBITDA 20% : Deferred award n Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20% : n ROCE 20% : n NPS Net Promoter Score 10% : n LTAs Lost Time Accidents 10% : and n Personal objectives 20%.
n In 2017 the maximum annual LTIP award of 100% of salary will be awarded to the CEO and CFO.
n The performance conditions for awards will be equally weighted between Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS growth and comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR assessed over a three-year performance period.
n TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE 250 LTIP excluding financial services, real estate and equity investment trusts with threshold vesting 25% for median performance against the index and full vesting for upper quartile performance: and n EPS growth with threshold vesting of 25% for EPS growth of 6% per annum and full vesting for 16% per annum growth.
n Straight line vesting between the points.
The Non-Executive Director fees are to remain the same as the previous year.
The current fee levels are: n Chairman 175,000 Non-Executive Directors fees n Board fee including committee membership 50,000 n Committee Chairmanship per committee 10,000 n Senior Independent Director 5,000 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 70 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary Remuneration Policy table A summary of the approved Remuneration Policy is outlined below.
There were no changes to the approved Policy made in 2016.
The full Policy as approved by shareholders on 26 May 2016 is available on our website at www.
Element of remuneration Operation Base salary The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are positioned in line with companies of a similar size to Ibstock in the FTSE 250 excluding financial services, real estate and equity investment trusts, validated against companies operating in a similar sector.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: n remuneration practices within the Group: n the general performance of the Group: n salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking: n any change in scope, role and responsibilities: and n the economic environment.
An Executive Directors base salary is set on appointment and reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or responsibility.
In general, salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the increase for employees.
Benefits The Executive Directors receive a company car or car allowance, private health cover, death in service cover and income protection.
Additional benefits may be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Pension The maximum contribution into the defined contribution plan or a salary supplement in lieu of pension will be 20% of gross basic salary.
Annual and Deferred Bonus The Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual participation in the Annual Bonus Plan for each Plan ADBP year, which will not exceed 125% of salary.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned, which vest after a minimum deferral period of three years based on continued employment.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP maximum grant is 100% of salary p. a.
LTIP The Committee considers and sets the performance measures and targets for each LTIP award.
See page 64 for the details of the 2017 LTIP grant.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Company operates a SIP and Sharesave Plan in which the Executive Directors are eligible to participate which is and The Sharesave Plan in line with HMRC legislation and is open to all eligible staff to encourage all employees to become shareholders in the Company and thereby align their interests with shareholders.
Minimum shareholding The Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up requirement over a five-year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
n Group Chief Executive Officer: 200% of salary.
n Group Chief Financial Officer: 150% of salary.
Non-Executive Director and The fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
Chairman fees Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional fees for chairmanship of committees.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for membership of committees.
In general the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman will be set taking account of any change in responsibility and will take into account the general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 71 Malus and clawback The ADBP and the LTIP include best practice malus and clawback provisions.
Annual bonus Deferred bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus Up to the date of payment of a cash bonus To the end of the three year deferral period To the end of the three year vesting period Clawback Three years post the bonus determination n a Two years post-vesting The Committee believes that the rules of the plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to Admission will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made post the Companys first AGM following Admission and may be inconsistent with policy.
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the total remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of the 2017 financial year, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
They also show the actual single figure of remuneration for the Executive Directors for the 2016 financial year.
The table overleaf sets out the assumptions used to calculate the elements of remuneration for each of these scenarios.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i fixed: ii annual bonus deferred bonus : and iii LTIP.
