Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 59 REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This is the first year in which annual bonuses have been determined under the new directors remuneration policy.
Further detail on the achievements underpinning the bonus award is provided later in this report, but I should like to take this opportunity to summarise some of the key considerations.
Financial and strategic goals were set at the start of the year and referenced in the remuneration report last year.
Good progress was made against these goals, with strong defence of existing market share in the majority of business areas and market share growth in parts of the post trade and electronic trading businesses.
The Company has also enjoyed strong Robert Standing revenue growth in new products.
In addition, the executive Chairman, Remuneration Committee directors executed a key step in the Groups long-term strategy of becoming a pure post trade services and electronic trading group through the agreement of the sale of IGBB to Tullett Prebon.
The Transaction was approved by shareholders at Dear shareholders, the shareholder meetings held on 24 March 2016, but is still I am pleased to present the remuneration report for 2015 16 subject to regulatory clearances.
It is hoped that clearances explaining how we implemented the directors remuneration will be granted and the Transaction will complete in 2016. policy approved in July 2015 and describing some minor amendments to the policy.
Given the strategic importance of the Transaction, during the year the committee withdrew two of the financial objectives and The committees primary focus is to ensure that ICAPs one of the strategic objectives as they were no longer capable remuneration policies and practices are fully aligned with of being progressed in their current form due to the Transaction.
the Groups strategy and culture and meet both regulatory and shareholder expectations.
Performance was outstanding versus the strategic priorities set at the start of the year.
An integrated approach to succession Although shareholders approved the remuneration policy planning, talent management, performance management and for 2015 16 onwards, some had concerns with the flexibility learning was delivered to more than 200 senior employees around remuneration that we had provided for new recruits and, in the Group.
These initiatives were fully integrated with our in particular, the retention of flexibility to make an award outside culture model.
the limits of the policy and where the committee considered it to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
To reflect the executive directors commitment to the Group, both directors have elected to defer 100% of their respective In light of this the committee has considered it appropriate bonuses into ICAP shares that will vest after three years.
In line to limit the flexibility provided in the recruitment policy in this with the remuneration policy no matching awards will be made.
Going forward the remuneration package for a new recruit will be subject to the limits provided in the remuneration The BSMP 2013 matching award did not vest as it failed to policy table.
A summary of the directors remuneration policy meet the performance condition as a result of continuing is provided on page 61. challenging trading conditions.
The directors remuneration policy, approved in July 2015, represented a major shift in the structure of remuneration for executive directors at ICAP, and we continue to be firmly of the view that the structure and the balance between fixed and variable pay described in the policy is robust and appropriate for ICAP as currently constituted.
A number of shareholders commented on the change to salary level for the Group Chief Executive Officer implemented this year.
Although the change was significant, it was a key component in the rebalanced The primary focus of the remuneration structure and represented the first change for more than a decade.
No further change to salaries is proposed committee is to ensure in this report.
that ICAPs remuneration policies and practices are fully aligned to the Groups strategy and culture and meet both regulatory and shareholder expectations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 60 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Although the current directors remuneration policy is intended to remain in place for a period of three years, assuming the Transaction goes ahead, a new directors remuneration policy for Newco will be presented for shareholder approval following completion of the Transaction.
The committee will ensure that the new policy supports the Groups strategy.
The committee also intends to consider the performance targets attached to unvested PSP awards to ensure that the performance measures reflect the challenges and opportunities presented by the new post trade risk and information and electronic trading business.
The shape of the board changed during the year with the appointment of Stuart Bridges as Group Finance Director and the departure of Diane Schueneman as a non-executive director.
Diane has been replaced on this committee by John Sievwright, an existing non-executive director and chairman of the Risk Committee.
The remuneration structure for Stuart Bridges was presented in the 2015 Annual Report.
A summary of the buyout arrangements for deferred remuneration from his previous employment was included in last years report, with further details provided on the actual grant made in this years report.
The regulatory environment continues to evolve and our policies and processes will adapt accordingly to meet new rules and guidance.
The Company will continue to monitor business practice and regulatory developments and participate in consultations on regulatory change.
Risk management is an ever-evolving requirement in all businesses and will continue to be a major focus for ICAP: the progress made over the past few years and the focus from all employees on effective awareness, monitoring and control of risk as a core component in all roles provides a strong platform on which we continue to build.
The Global Broking business has fully embedded a standard operational risk model.
Monthly reporting of key risk indicators and key performance indicators is now standard practice across the Group and ISO accreditation continues to be expanded.
Assuming the Transaction goes ahead, it is expected that the retained Group will not be subjected to consolidated regulatory capital requirements.
This does not, however, lessen the commitment from the committee to apply strong governance to the management of remuneration in the new Group.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the 2016 annual general meeting.
We look forward to receiving your support.
Robert Standing Chairman, Remuneration Committee 16 May 2016 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Overview of the directors remuneration policy An overview of the key remuneration elements in place for executive directors is set out below.
The directors remuneration policy, approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, of which the following is a summary, continues to be the policy by which the Company is bound.
A copy of the approved directors remuneration policy can be found in the 2015 annual report.
Element Purpose and link to ICAPs strategy Summary of approach Application of policy for 2016 Base salary Reflects individual role Reviewed annually in the context of Salaries for 2016 are: and experience.
Group Chief Executive Officer: 750,000 Set at a level to attract the Increases are normally in line with the Group Finance Director: right talent into the Group to wider employee population, although 500,000 deliver the business strategy.
higher increase may be awarded in exceptional circumstances.
Pension Element of remuneration Normally enrolled in pension plan in the Pension contributions for 2016 17 are: to assist employees with country of residence.
Group Chief Executive Officer: retirement planning.
Directors may opt out of the pension plan 5% of salary and instead receive a cash allowance.
Group Finance Director: 5% of salary Benefits Element of remuneration to Benefits include, but are not limited to: Benefits provided in line with policy.
provide a competitive and medical: life insurance: and car and cost-effective benefits package.
The Group Chief Executive Officer also has the use of a driver.
Executive directors may be accompanied by their spouse partner on business trips, where business reasons justify this.
Annual bonus Incentivises executive directors At least 70% of the bonus is The maximum annual bonus opportunities and DSBP to achieve the Companys key assessed against financial measures, for 2016 17 are: financial and strategic objectives, with the balance made up of Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% while also aligning interests with strategic individual objectives.
Group Finance Director: 200% those of shareholders.
Deferral At least 50% of any bonus award For 2016, 70% will be based on financial of a significant proportion of is deferred into shares for at least objectives centred on growth and protection the bonus into shares helps three years.
and profitability: and 30% will be based on to align the long-term interests A further retention period of six strategic objectives centred on controls and of executives with those of months may apply.
governance and people and culture.
The maximum award potential Further details on the performance is 300% of salary.
objectives are set out on page 68.
Malus and clawback provisions apply in exceptional circumstances.
Performance To reward sustained Company Awards of shares are subject to a The award for 2016 17 is: Share Plan performance and the creation performance period of at least three Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% PSP of shareholder value over time.
Awards are then subject to an Group Finance Director: 200% additional holding period of at least For 2016 17, 50% will be based on EPS two years.
performance and 50% will be subject The maximum award potential to a relative TSR performance condition is 300% of salary.
against a sector specific group of 13 Malus and clawback provisions international comparator companies.
Further details on the performance conditions are set out on page 69.
Shareholding To create alignment with Executive directors are required to build up requirement shareholders by encouraging shareholdings in the Company as follows: longer-term focus.
Group Chief Executive Officer: 500% of base salary Group Finance Director: 300% of base salary ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 62 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY continued Malus and clawback As set out above, all variable pay may be subject to malus and clawback in any of the following circumstances, for a period of up to five years in line with corporate governance time frames: a material misstatement of the Companys or any other Group members audited financial results: a material failure of risk management by the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit: misconduct or material error on the part of the participant: or a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit malus only.
Malus and clawback parameters will remain under review in line with regulatory guidance.
Updated recruitment policy As noted in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, following feedback from investors regarding the flexibility provided in the recruitment policy, the committee considered it appropriate to limit this flexibility.
For completeness, the following sets out the updated recruitment policy: In determining remuneration for new appointments to the board, the committee will apply the following principles: the committee will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the calibre of the individual, the external market and existing arrangements for the Companys current executive directors, with a view to ensuring that any arrangements offered are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders and without paying any more than is necessary: and the committee will seek to align new executive directors remuneration packages with the remuneration policy as set out above.
Components and approach Pay on recruitment will be consistent with the usual policy for executive directors, as set out in the policy table.
Where the new appointment is replacing a previous executive director, salaries, pension and total remuneration opportunity may be higher or lower than the previous incumbent dependent on skills and experience.
Where an executive director is appointed from within the Group, the normal policy of the Company is that any existing arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is appointed following an acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Maximum level of variable pay The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to a new executive director in respect of their appointment shall be limited to that set out in the policy table for each component of remuneration.
This excludes any one-off awards made to compensate the director for awards forfeited from their previous employer.
Buy-outs In order to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make a one-off award to buy-out incentive awards and any other compensation arrangements that a new director has had to forfeit on leaving their previous employer.
In doing so, the committee will take into account all relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the likelihood of these conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award for example cash or shares.
Where possible, the forfeited awards will be bought-out on a like-for-like basis.
The committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining any possible buy-out arrangements.
Contractual terms The Companys policy on notice periods is up to 12 months notice by the Company or executive director to provide a reasonable balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
Recruitment of Chairman and non-executive directors In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or non-executive director, their remuneration framework will be in line with policy as approved by shareholders.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 63 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The information in this section up to and including the statement of directors shareholding and share interests section is subject to audit.
The complete annual report on remuneration is subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Stuart Bridges was appointed to the board on 1 September 2015.
John Nixon resigned from the board on 31 March 2015.
Iain Torrens resigned from the board on 12 December 2014.
Diane Schueneman resigned from the board on 31 December 2015.
Notes to the table methodology a Salary and fees the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
b Benefits the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Benefits vary for each executive director but include medical, life insurance, car and travel benefits.
Michael Spencer also has use of a driver.
The Chairman is provided with an office and is reimbursed for a proportion of the cost of a car and driver to assist with the performance of his duties.
c Annual bonus this represents the bonus awarded in respect of the 2015 16 performance year, including the deferred portion.
d Pension cash allowance during the year, Michael Spencer participated in the UK defined contribution plan.
e P ayment in lieu of dividend the amounts shown reflect payments in lieu of dividends received on legacy awards including the basic and matching awards for 2009 and basic awards and promises granted under the BSMP for 2010, 2011 and 2012. f Buy-out awards this represents buy-out awards to Stuart Bridges on his appointment as Group Finance Director at the beginning of September 2015 as partial recompense for deferred awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
On 11 November 2015 197,500 shares in the Company were granted to him with a share price of 4.541.
In line with the regulations the full value of grant is disclosed in this table, the shares are subject to continued employment and will vest as follows: 98,750 shares on 1 September 2016: and 98,750 shares on 1 September 2017.
Stuart Bridges was also granted a performance based PSP award to the value of 900,000 as recompense for performance based awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
Further details of the performance conditions attached to this award can be found on pages 65 and 66.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table 2015 16 annual bonus The bonus plan was structured to incentivise executive directors to meet the corporate objectives of investing to achieve growth and profitability, continuing to develop and promote the corporate culture through strong and risk-aware leadership and aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
The plan was designed so that progress and achievements in the past twelve months can be recognised and rewarded, with a significant proportion deferred for a period of three years to ensure ongoing alignment and positive behaviours.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 64 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued During 2015 16, the executive directors made good progress against the financial and strategic goals set by the committee at the start of the year, as set out in the table below.
They also executed a key step in the Groups strategy of becoming a pure post trade services and electronic trading group through the agreement of the sale of IGBB to Tullett Prebon.
The Transaction was approved by shareholders at the shareholder meetings on 24 March 2016 but is still subject to regulatory clearance.
Assuming that the Transaction proceeds as agreed, it should complete during 2016.
Shareholders of ICAP will benefit significantly from the Transaction, with identified synergy benefits from the combined group of at least 60 million annually, as advised in the ICAP Circular of 1 March 2016, driven by the elimination of duplicated management and support costs with significant additional benefits accruing over time.
Outcomes relative to performance goals % of Performance element Key strategic areas measure Threshold Target Maximum vesting Additional commentary Financial objectives 70% Defence of Retention of market share in global broking and market existing share growth across key areas of the electronic markets Growth and market share and post trade businesses.
protection across global Growth in e-commerce matching revenue within Global Broking.
financial broking Revenue from new product initiatives accounted for 23% Innovation of Electronic Markets and PTRI revenue 2014 15: 18%.
and Market share Acquisition of ENSO in April 2016 will strengthen relationships 85% sustainable growth in with the prime broker market and its hedge fund customers.
growth electronic and The Transaction is transformational for the growth of in key post trade Electronic Markets and PTRI.
businesses An objective to expand the addressable market beyond large and new Revenue from investment banks was withdrawn.
This was a Group-wide products new products initiative, intended to maximise cross-business marketing and so could not be progressed once the Transaction was underway.
Trading profit before tax of 203 million was 11% down on the prior year.
Excluding year-on-year adverse movement Profit from FX losses of 11 million, trading profit before tax was before tax Profitability down 7%, primarily driven by incremental investment, m financial particularly in Electronic Markets.
Trading operating profit also fell behind the target level Profitability due to the decision to withdraw identified cost reduction through measures that would have improved the profit figure but achievement 58% could not be progressed in light of the Transaction.
of targets PTRI operating profit was in line with the prior year, but and Cash Electronic Markets and Global Broking were behind target appropriate conversion due to incremental investment in the year and continuing cash % revenue headwinds in the market.
management Cash conversion was a key component of the profitability objective and closed ahead of expectation for the year at 96% and in line with expectation over the medium term.
Non-financial objectives 30% Risk management tools, methodologies and techniques are Embedding now embedded into the business-as-usual environment, with risk risk appetite an integral part of business strategy and plans.
management The measuring and reporting of Group risk appetite improved Controls and across the significantly, with a particular focus on and articulation of key and governance organisation emerging risks at the divisional level, supporting board oversight.
nonThere was also significant improvement in self-sufficiency financial 90% i. e. limited dependency on third parties.
Efficient and The operations control environment was upgraded in all businesses effective Upgrade supported by appropriate KPIs.
The operational risk model is controls operations now embedded in the majority of businesses, with key risk control indicators and KPIs reviewed on a monthly basis.
environment An entity simplification project eliminated a number of unregulated entities.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 65 % of Performance element Key strategic areas measure Threshold Target Maximum vesting Additional commentary The use of psychometrics in selection, interview skills training for hiring managers, a standard global approach to performance management, a global induction programme and talent mapping People have all contributed to a much more professional approach to and People appointments and alignment of the leadership with the culture culture and values that drive the right behaviours.
The board played an nonactive role in developing the plan to articulate and reinforce our financial strong culture in everything we do.
Diversity training has been 90% The right enhanced and continues to run globally.
people The Newco brand positioning and its visual identity is being working developed.
Internal and external communication of the together Transaction was very successful.
in the Culture An objective to develop a strategic approach to customer right way management was originally planned as a cross-Group exercise but was withdrawn once the Transaction was underway and a new project launched for Newco only.
While the committee is mindful of the external expectations on annual bonus target disclosure, it has considered it appropriate not to disclose the actual financial performance targets used for the determination of the annual bonus this year as they reward achievement of the Groups business plan, the disclosure of which the board considers to be commercially sensitive.
The committee will keep the level of disclosure provided on the annual bonus under review in the coming year.
The Remuneration Committee determined that, as set out in the above table, a formulaic outcome under the financial element of the annual bonus resulted in 71% of this element being paid out, with 90% of the non-financial element being paid out.
This results in a total of 77% of the maximum.
Executive directors are required to defer at least 50% of bonus payments into ICAP shares vesting after three years.
Both the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director have elected to defer 100% of their 2016 bonus into ICAP shares vesting after three years.
In line with the remuneration policy approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, no matching awards will be made.
2013 BSMP matching award The BSMP matching award granted in 2013 under the legacy arrangements was subject to a performance condition based on adjusted basic EPS growth over the three financial years to 31 March 2016.
The matching award is released only if adjusted basic EPS has grown by at least 9% above RPI over the three financial years to 31 March 2016.
The Companys adjusted trading EPS declined over the three-year period, therefore the award did not vest.
Details of share awards granted in the year 2015 PSP award On 11 November 2015, PSP awards were granted to the two executive directors as shown in the table below: Threshold Maximum Number of vesting % of vesting % of Type of award shares Face value face value face value End of performance period Michael Spencer PSP Conditional share award based 173,262 905,814 25% 100% 31 March 2018 on performance PSP Conditional share award based 197,500 896,848 25% 100% 31 March 2018 Stuart Bridges on performance PSP Buy-out award conditional shares 98,750 448,424 100% 100% 1 September based on continued employment 2016 PSP Buy-out award conditional shares 98,750 448,424 100% 100% 1 September based on continued employment 2017 Buy-out awards to Stuart Bridges were made to compensate for forefeited deferred awards with his previous employer.
The face value of awards for Michael Spencer is based on the average closing price for the five business days following 15 July 2015, being the date of the 2015 annual general meeting 5.228.
In line with his joining agreement, the face value of awards for Stuart Bridges is based on the closing price on 28 August 2015, being the last business day before he was appointed to the board 4.541.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 66 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued For PSP awards subject to performance conditions made in the year the committee selected a combination of trading EPS and relative TSR as the performance conditions on the basis that it safeguards the progress that has been made in the Groups performance and underpins continuing forward growth in the Groups earnings and therefore promotes the long-term success of the Company.
The performance condition for the 2015 PSP award is based on graduated vesting where 25% of the matching award will vest at EPS growth of CPI 20% over the three-year period and TSR performance at the median level versus the agreed peer group as set out in last years remuneration report, increasing to 100% vesting at EPS growth of CPI 45% over the three-year period and TSR performance at the upper quartile level versus the agreed peer group.
The EPS and TSR performance conditions are measured independently and are not contingent on one another.
SAYE options Michael Spencer participated in the HMRC approved ICAP plc 2008 Sharesave Scheme SAYE, under which participants may be granted options at a 20% discount to market value at grant.
Options granted under the SAYE are not subject to a performance condition.
On 18 June 2015, 2,986 options over ordinary shares in the Company were granted to Michael Spencer at an option price of 4.52.
The exercise period for the options will commence on 1 August 2018 and will last for a period of six months to 31 January 2019.
Payments to past directors Payments in line with those previously disclosed to shareholders were made in the year.
In line with ICAPs policy, John Nixon received a payment of 102,000 in lieu of dividends on his outstanding legacy awards.
Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office have been made in the year.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Minimum shareholding guidelines for executive directors and members of the GEMG have been in place since 2012.
These shareholdings will be built up over time and, for these purposes, will include vested share awards under long term incentive plans but will not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under long term incentive plans or any unexercised options.
Any vested shares subject to a holding period under the new PSP will count towards the shareholding guidelines.
Other shares that count towards the guideline include those that are beneficially owned and shares held by the ICAP Trust in respect of BSMP basic awards and any vested but not exercised BSMP matching and PSP awards.
The minimum shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary and for other executive directors is 300% of base salary.
The Group Chief Executive Officer had exceeded his target as at 31 March 2016, based on the share price at the close of business on that date.
The Group Finance Director was appointed in September 2015 and has five years from appointment to reach his target.
The table below details the share interests of the directors in office at 31 March 2016: Outstanding Outstanding PSP awards PSP awards Share interests Share interests without with as at 31 March as at 31 March performance performance Outstanding Outstanding Director Note 2016 2015 condition condition BSMP awards SAYE options Charles Gregson 4 241,625 236,263 Michael Spencer 1,2 3,889,383 3,799,984 173,262 4,014,913 4,476 Stuart Bridges 3 25,000 197,500 197,500 Ivan Ritossa John Sievwright 20,873 20,000 Robert Standing 10,000 10,000 Note 1.
Details of Michael Spencers shareholding, including his connected parties, are set out in a note to the substantial shareholders section on page 57.
The outstanding BSMP awards include the 2008 BSMP matching award which has vested and remains unexercised.
Charles Gregson holds one ordinary share of 10p and 499,999 redeemable preference shares of 10p in ICAP Newco plc.
Between 31 March 2016 and 11 May 2016 there were no transactions by the directors in the Companys shares.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 67 External appointments The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits to both the Company and executive directors serving as non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to take on non-executive directorships with other companies with the approval of the Nomination Committee.
Any fees arising from such appointments are retained by the individual.
Stuart Bridges received a fee of 26,542, which he retained, for his non-executive directorship of Caledonia Investments plc.
Total shareholder return The TSR on a holding of the Companys ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share indices for the seven financial years to 31 March 2016 is shown in the graph below.
As a constituent of the FTSE 100 index from June 2006 to September 2012 and the FTSE 250 from that date, the Company considers both the FTSE 100 and the FTSE 250 the appropriate indices for comparison.
Performance graph value of 100 invested Performance graph value of 100 invested Seven financial years ended 31 March 2016 Seven financial years ended 31 March 2016 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ICAP FTSE 100 FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer Previous policy Current policy 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 Single total figure of remuneration 000 6,069 10,727 5,524 4,326 2,215 3,320 3,591 Percentage of maximum bonus paid n a n a 56% 41% 12% 25% 76% Percentage of maximum BSMP opportunity vesting 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% No maximum bonus stated prior to 2011 12.
Change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer compared to other employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded to the Group Chief Executive Officer and all other employees of the Group between 2014 15 and 2015 16: Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive Officer 108% -19% -6% All other employees -12% -3% -13% As set out in the 2015 remuneration report, the salary change for the Group Chief Executive Officer formed part of the redesign of executive compensation and the implementation of a new directors remuneration policy approved in 2015.
The salary change was the first in more than a decade reflecting the re-balancing of compensation towards fixed pay and the reduction in the maximum award.
No further change to the salary level is proposed for at least the duration of this policy.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 16 2014 15 Change m m % Total remuneration 653 743 -12 Dividends 141 141 0 ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 68 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued Statement of implementation of the directors remuneration policy in the coming year The directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2015 remains in place for the 2016 17 financial year.
In the event that the disposal of IGBB completes before 31 March 2017, the committee will be reviewing the directors remuneration policy and arrangements to ensure that they remain appropriate for the strategy of Newco.
A directors remuneration policy for Newco will be put to a shareholder vote at its first annual general meeting.
We consider that the proposed remuneration arrangements for 2016 17: provide synergy with our business strategy going forward: provide more alignment with shareholders: are more aligned with regulatory and corporate governance developments and should discourage excessive risk-taking or short-term decisions at the expense of the long-term interests of the Company: and provide increased transparency and disclosure of individual performance outcomes.
Our directors remuneration policy for 2016 17, in line with the policy approved by shareholders in 2015, will be as outlined below.
Salary Following the change in 2015 for the balance of fixed and variable pay to align more closely with the Company risk profile, no further adjustment is proposed for 2016.
Salary levels from 1 April 2016 are shown below: Salary % increase Group Chief Executive Officer 750,000 0% Group Finance Director 500,000 0% Pension and benefits Both executive directors receive a cash equivalent to the standard 5% of salary contribution to the UK defined contribution plan.
The cash equivalent is reduced to take account of employers national insurance contributions.
Michael Spencer participated in the UK defined contribution pension plan until February 2016 and received the cash equivalent thereafter.
There will be no material change to benefits.
Annual bonus awards in respect of the 2016 17 financial year The bonus structure for 2016 17 is consistent with that detailed in the directors remuneration policy section of this report.
Annual bonuses will continue to be assessed based on financial performance, represented by growth and protection objectives and profitability objectives accounting for 70% of the overall award, and strategic priorities with the proportion of the annual bonus based on strategic priorities forming 30% of the overall award.
This reflects the importance we place on these objectives.
Further details are set out below: Maximum opportunity for 2016 Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of base salary Group Finance Director: 200% of base salary Up to half of any bonus award will be paid in cash, with the balance deferred into ICAP shares for a three-year period.
Performance measures The committee has selected measures to directly support ICAPs strategy.
The 2016 annual bonus will be subject to the following performance measures: Financial 70% : Growth and protection innovation and sustainable growth in key businesses and new products Profitability achievement of profit and revenue targets and appropriate cost management Strategic priorities 30% : Controls and governance efficient and effective controls People and culture the right people working together in the right way The targets set for the performance measures are commercially sensitive and as permitted by the regulations are not being disclosed in advance.
Further details will be provided in next years annual report within commercial constraints with context on performance against those targets and the resulting bonus.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 69 Long term incentive awards In the 2016 17 financial year, awards will be made under the PSP to the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director.
Further details are set out below: Maximum Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of salary opportunity Group Finance Director: 200% of salary Performance Performance will be measured over a three-year performance period.
Once they have vested, awards will be subject period to an additional holding period of a minimum of two years.
Performance The performance period will run from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019. measures and TSR 50% of the award targets Half the 2016 PSP award will be subject to a total shareholder return performance condition.
ICAPs TSR will be measured relative to a sector-specific group of 13 international comparator companies: BGC Markit BOVESPA Hong Kong Stock Exchange Nasdaq CBOE Singapore Exchange InterContinental Exchange CME Deutsche Brse Tullett Prebon London Stock Exchange MarketAxess Vesting of awards under the TSR element will be in line with the following schedule: TSR performance Percentage of TSR element vesting Below median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile EPS 50% of the award The remaining 50% of the 2016 award will be subject to a cumulative EPS performance condition.
Awards under this element will vest in line with the following schedule: Cumulative EPS Percentage of EPS element vesting CPI 20% 0% CPI 20% 25% CPI 45% 100% Chairman and non-executive directors fees The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure as at 1 April 2016: Position Fee % increase Chairman 300,000 0% Non-executive director 80,000 0% Additional fees Senior independent director 10,000 0% Chairman of the Audit Committee 10,000 0% Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10,000 0% Chairman of the Risk Committee 10,000 0% Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5,000 0% Membership of the ICAP SEF board and or any other subsidiary board 15,000 $25,000 0% Charles Gregson waived his entitlement to the additional fee for his role as chairman of the Nomination Committee.
There are no fees paid for membership of board committees.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who sit on the board of ICAP SEF entities due to the additional time commitment for discharging this role.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 70 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued Remuneration Committee remit and responsibilities The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the board to review and approve proposals to ensure that ICAPs global reward and employee benefits approach supports the business strategy of the Group.
The committees responsibility is the oversight of the remuneration strategy for the Group, to ensure that ICAPs approach to remuneration is aligned with the interests of employees and shareholders and to comply with current best practice and regulatory requirements.
Full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
The committees principal areas of responsibility are: reviewing and approving the overall remuneration policy of ICAP at least every three years: setting remuneration and pension benefit policies for executive directors, senior staff and other key employees across the business: approving any contracts of employment for employees below the board with terms that exceed certain agreed levels of duration, notice period or remuneration: ensuring that remuneration proposals are compliant with both the letter and spirit of all local legislation or regulatory guidelines: and considering implications for risk management.
Remuneration Committee members The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of the committee is appointed by the board.
The table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
Activities during the year The principal activities and matters addressed by the committee during the year included: review of the implications of the Transaction on incentive plans and share awards: review and approval of the executive directors bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2016, including assessment of the level of achievement of the executive directors objectives for the year: review of performance against the EPS performance target for the 2013 BSMP award: review and approval of the remuneration of those individuals fulfilling control functions, including the Group Head of Compliance and the Group Head of Risk, and members of the GEMG: and review of the highest earners compensation arrangements across the Group.
Support to the committee The committee is supported by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of HR and the Group Company Secretary.
The committee received external advice from Deloitte LLP in relation to the design and implementation of executive remuneration arrangements.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company.
The committee is satisfied that the advice received from Deloitte LLP was independent and objective.
The total fee in respect of the advice provided was 69,160.
Deloitte LLP also provided tax, consulting and corporate finance services to ICAP during the year.
Statement of voting at the 2015 annual general meeting At the 2015 annual general meeting votes cast in respect of the remuneration report and directors remuneration policy were: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Total number Total number of votes Votes cast of votes Votes cast For 371,174,074 65.85% 375,615,718 69.32% Against 192,466,902 34.15% 166,224,619 30.68% Number of votes cast 563,640,976 541,840,337 Votes withheld 3,405,389 25,206,028 The committee was disappointed with the voting outcome for the remuneration report and directors remuneration policy.
Although the directors remuneration policy approved in July 2015 remains in place, we have made a change to the recruitment policy set out in the directors remuneration policy report for directors in light of shareholder feedback as explained in the chairmans statement on page 59.
