DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of shareholder value.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May 2016 comprising this statement, the Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In this years report, we have sought to refine the disclosures.
However, the overall structure of the executive remuneration package and the principles that underpin it remain unchanged.
We continue to operate under the Directors Remuneration Policy that has been in place since June 2013 and which was approved in a binding vote by over 96% of our shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
There will be a single advisory vote at this years AGM with regards to this annual statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration that details both amounts paid in respect of the year ended31 May 2016 and the intended operation of the remuneration policy for the coming year.
I hope you agree that how we have rewarded our Executives is commensurate with the Groups Malcolm Le May performance and that you will support this years resolution at the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee forthcoming AGM.
THE BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2016 As noted within the Operating and Financial Review section of the Our remuneration report covers the remuneration of the Annual Report on pages 36 to 41, the Group delivered another Executive and Non-Executive Directors of IG Group Holdings strong financial performance in 2016.
Revenue increased by plc the Company and the Group and is organised into the 14% on 2015s underlying results to 456.3million, while diluted following main sections: earnings per share DEPS increased by 8.5% against last years CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW 70 underlying results to 44.58pence per share.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY 72 Over the past year, IG has expanded its core leverage business ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 81 seeing growth in all locations including Switzerland and Dubai, which have both delivered ahead of expectations.
Our product Statement of implementation of remuneration policy offering has also seen growth: the share dealing platform in2016 andSingle Figure of Remuneration 81 continues to attract new customers supporting our overall strategy.
We have also opened our Poland office as an IT and Operations hub.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2016 Since 2013, the Companys Executive Directors have participated in a single incentive scheme, the sustained performance plan SPP which measures performance over annual and trailing three-year periods.
This Plan replaced both the previous annual bonus and long-term incentive plans.
The year to 31 May 2016 is therefore the third year of the Executives variable remuneration being awarded under the plan.
Similar to the prior years SPP, the 2016 award is driven by three metrics: diluted earnings per share DEPS, total shareholders return TSR and non-financial metrics presented in more detail in the Remuneration Policy section on pages 83to 84.
In respect of the strong annual and trailing three-year performance for the period ended 31 May 2016, the Committee has awarded 90%of the maximum potential award under the SPP compared with 41% in the prior year.
The overall SPP outcome is higher than last year as a result of the strong performance in 2016 against all metrics.
The results of 2015 were negatively impacted by the Swiss franc event in January 2015 on both the EPSand the non-financial performance measures.
70 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company has set out an extensive explanation of the COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OFTIME judgements it has made in determiningthe above awards.
Thisdisclosure is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration SALARY AND BONUS SCHEME ARRANGEMENTS onpage 81.
INCENTIVE AWARDS MANAGEMENT CHANGES After 16 years with the Company, Tim Howkins retired from his REMUNERATION REGULATION position as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 15 October REMUNERATION REPORTING 2015.
Tim received no payment in lieu of notice and was treated in line with our policy for retirees.
Full details can be found on REMUNERATION POLICY page 81.
OTHER Peter Hetherington was appointedInterim Chief Executive Officer from 15 October 2015.
Subsequently, he was appointed Chief POLICY REVIEW ANDREGULATORY CHANGE Executive Officer on 4 December 2015.
Peters salary has been set at 575,000 and reflects the skills, knowledge and experience The current Remuneration Policy has a three-year life and a vote that Peter brings to the role and the increased complexity of the on a new or revised Remuneration Policy will be required at business as it has expanded its product offering in new territories.
Therefore, over the course of the next year the Having conducted a thorough search process, the Committee Committee will be reviewing the current remuneration structure is comfortable that Peters salary reflects the normal market and will consult with shareholders once that review has concluded.
The Committee, as a secondary consideration, The Committee will continueto monitor and review potential also conducted a benchmarking exercise looking at CEOs in legislative changes to remuneration regulations that could impact companies of broadly similar scale and complexity.
Having the current policy and it is prepared to act accordingly if such considered the result, theCommittee is further reassured that the changes affect the Group.
new salary reflects the market rate for this position in a company IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN2016 17 of this size and complexity.
The Committee has determined that Peters base salary remains Christopher Hill resigned from his position as Chief Financial unchanged at the 1 June 2016 review date.
Officer and served notice on 10 August 2015.
Christopher Starting 1 June 2016, we introduced flexible benefits forall continued his role and ceased to be a director on30 October employees in the UK.
This provides a personal benefits pot, similar 2015.
Christopher was on gardening leave for the remainder of his in value to the Groups pension matching offering, which allows six months notice period and received salary, pension and benefits staff members to manage and decide whether to have this paid during this time.
Christophers outstanding share awards lapsed in into their pension plan, used for other benefits or taken as cash.
line with our remuneration policy.
Further details can be found on The impact on the Executive Directors pay-out will be minimal page 82. as the Companys pension contribution will remain at 15% of Mark Ward was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer on 15 salary and there will continue to be the opportunity to receive the January 2016, although this was not in an executive capacity.
Following the Boards search for a permanent Chief Financial For 2017, the Committee will use the same SPP metrics described Officer, Paul Mainwaring was appointedas Chief Financial Officer above, with the same weightings.
Accordingly, annual DEPS will designate.
Following Financial Conduct Authority FCA approval, drive 45% of the maximum potential award, with relative TSR Paul takes up the role on a permanent basis and joins the Board.
measured over the trailing threeyears and annual non-financial Paul will receive a basic salary of 400,000.
He will be eligible to metrics accounting for 35% and 20% respectively.
participate in IGs sustained performance plan details of which are In relation to the DEPS targets, as with past years, the Committee set out on page 74.
The maximum award will be four times base has used a set of internal and external reference points to set salary for stretch performance and an anticipated award of two targets.
The target range will be disclosed and explained in next times base salary at target performance.
Paul will also receive a years remuneration report.
pension and a benefits allowance totalling 17% of base salary.
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the remuneration SCHEDULED SCHEDULED resolution at the AGM.
MEETINGS ELIGIBLE MEETINGS TO ATTEND ATTENDED 1 Malcolm Le May 4 4 2 Roger Yates 3 2 3 Stephen Hill 6 5 Andy Green 6 6 4 Malcolm Le May Jim Newman 3 3 Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1 Malcolm Le May joined the Committee on 10 September 2015.
19 July 2016 2 Roger Yates stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 15 October 2015.
3 Stephen Hill did not attend one meeting due to illness.
4 Jim Newman joined the Committee on 25 September 2015.
71 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Determines and reviews the Groups remuneration policy, DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management across The Directors Remuneration Policy describes the framework, the Group, and considers the implications of this remuneration principles and structures that guide the Remuneration policy on risk Committees decision-making process in the area of Executive Determines and agrees the policy for the remuneration of the Directors remuneration in line with the Committees objective to Board Chairman and the Executive Directors ensure that remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the Reviews pay, benefits and employment conditions and the growth of shareholders value.
remuneration trends across the Group The policy was unanimously approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and there is no vote on the Directors Remuneration Approves all share-based awards under the Groups employee Policy at the 2016 Annual General Meeting as it is unchanged.
incentive schemes, to determine each year whether awards will be made and, if awards are made, to monitor their operation, The role of the Remuneration Committee and the objective of the the size of such awards and the performance targets to be used remuneration policy aredescribed below.
Monitors regulatory developments, including those affecting REMUNERATION COMMITTEES ROLE UK-listed companies and financial services firms, to ensure the Makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups senior Companys remuneration policy is consistent with these executive remuneration policy Establishes the selection criteria, appoints and sets the terms Determines an overall remuneration package for the Executive of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise Directors in order to attract and retain high-quality Directors the Committee capable of achieving the Groups objectives The Committees terms of reference can be found on our Sets and agrees with the Board a competitive and transparent corporate website at iggroup.
remuneration framework which is aligned to the Groups strategy and is in the interest of both the Company and its shareholders Determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other benefits for the Executive Directors KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR STRATEGY METRICS WITHHOLDING BASE SALARY Provides a sound basis on which to Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for 12 The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases typically in No performance No recovery or recruit and retain key employees of months commencing 1 June.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: line with the wider workforce.
metrics apply to withholding applies appropriate calibre to deliver the base salary.
Scale, scope and responsibility of the role Increases beyond the percentage increases granted to the wider workforce may be strategic objectives of the Company.
awarded in exceptional circumstances, such as: Experience of the individual and his or her performance Reflects the market value of the role Where there is a change in the individuals responsibility Average change in wider workforce pay and the postholders experience, Where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the Business performance and prevailing market conditions competency and performance within individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role the Company.
Commercial need An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances, to Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies selected on the basis of reflect the criticality of the role and the individuals experience and performance.
comparable size, complexity, geographic spread and business focus Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2017 are: Chief Executive Officer 575,000:Chief Financial Officer 400,000 BENEFITS Competitive, cost-effective Benefits may include, for example, private medical insurance, discounted health club The aim is to provide market-competitive benefits, and their value may vary from year No performance No recovery or benefits to help recruit and retain membership and life assurance.
to year, depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
metrics apply to withholding applies Executive Directors.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on Benefits constitute a small percentage of total remuneration.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Director is required to relocate.
PENSION Market-competitive, cost-effective The Group contributes to Executive Directors personal pension plans.
Executives have the The Company may contribute up to 15% of base salary to pension, an equivalent cash No performance No recovery or retirement benefits attract and retain option to receive part, or all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in lieu of allowance in lieu, or a mixture of both.
72 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT delivery of strategic objectives at both a Company and an OBJECTIVES OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY individual level.
There must also be scope to reward for The remuneration policy is set to ensure that remuneration has exceptional effort and achievement that delivers value both for the ability to attract and retain senior executives of a high calibre, the Company and the shareholders.
Likewise, failure to achieve, remains competitive and provides appropriate incentive for individually or at Company level, will not be rewarded.
The Committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an The Committee has agreed that all matters relating to appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward for the remuneration of Group employees should: individual, the Company and forshareholders.
Align with the best interests of the Companys shareholders When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree of and other stakeholders stretch in performance conditions and the balance of equity Recognise and reward good and excellent performance of and cash within a package, consideration is given to obtaining employees that helps drive sustainable growth of the Group the appropriate balance of each so as not to encourage Focus on retaining high-performing senior management unnecessary risk-taking.
As well as financial risk, the Committee also ensures that there is an appropriate focus on regulatory and Be consistent with regulatory and corporate governance matters.
governance requirements The total remuneration package is structured so that a significant Be designed to achieve effective risk management proportion is linked to performance conditions, and it is the Be straightforward, easy for shareholders and employees to Companys policy to ensure that a high proportion of the potential understand and easy for the Group to monitor remuneration package is provided via share-based instruments.
Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately increases This ensures that Executives have a strong ongoing alignment with the Groups exposure to risks shareholders through the Companys share price performance.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element operates in the Companys business environment and in remuneration and how each part links to the corporate strategy.
There must be transparency and alignment to the PURPOSE AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR STRATEGY METRICS WITHHOLDING BASE SALARY Provides a sound basis on which to Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for 12 The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases typically in No performance No recovery or recruit and retain key employees of months commencing 1 June.
73 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS RECOVERY OR STRATEGY WITHHOLDING ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES All employees including Executive The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
Partnership, Free, Dividend and Matching HMRC or non-UK No performance metrics apply to base salary.
No recovery or Directors are encouraged to shares may be granted under the SIP.
plan equivalent limits withholding applies to become shareholders through the will apply to any base salary.
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they will operate in accordance with operation of an HMRC-approved all-employee schemes HMRC guidance and limits.
Share Incentive Plan SIP and that may be introduced.
Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK employees and Directors to participate.
or such other all-employee share This currently constitutes plans as the Company may adopt a small proportion of in the future.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY This aligns the interests of A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ended 31 May 2014. management and shareholders and Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of promotes a long-term approach to 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN SPP Approved by shareholders at the We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five consecutive plan years.
The first plan year The maximum plan The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on performance against the The Committee 2013 AGM, the SPP provides was the financial year which ended 31 May 2014. contribution in respect targets set by the Committee for each relevant financial year.
may decide within a single incentive plan for of a plan year is an three years of a plan Awards of shares either in the form of par value options, nil cost options or conditional awards, Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted earnings per share DEPS Executive Directors rather than award of shares with contribution that the known as plan contributions are made after the announcement of results relating to each plan year.
targets, Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
Performance having separate annual and a market value of no underlying award will is measured over single plan years financial years except for TSR from plan year Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement against applicable performance targets long-term plans.
more than 500% of an be subject to clawback.
2 awards in respect of financial year ending 31 May 2015.
We currently intend to and accumulate within a participants plan account.
executives annual rate This may happen It provides a simple and apply the following performance criteria: Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in the plan account vests i. e. options or of salary.
where there has been a competitive incentive mechanism DEPS a sliding scale of targets will apply for each plan year.
The targets awards are released to participants.
material misstatement that encourages and rewards both will be set at the start of each plan year.
Targets and performance will be in the Companys Therefore, a participants plan account will comprise the sum of the plan contribution if any being annual and sustained long-term disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial results or made in relation to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards registered in the plan performance, linked to the financial year-end.
an error in assessing account from previous plan years.
Relative TSR the Companys share price plus dividends reinvested any applicable In the first five plan years, a participants plan account vests as follows: The SPP encapsulates traditional performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group.
For the first performance condition.
annual bonus and long-term plan year, performance was based on that plan year alone: for the second plan It may also be Following Financial year ending % of cumulative shares in plan account vesting incentive plans.
It is entirely year, performance was based on plan years 1 and 2.
For plan years thereafter triggered if there has share-based, encouraging Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0% performance is measured over three plan years ending with the plan year being been substantial failure executives to build up a reported on.
The Committee retains the discretion to scale back the level of of risk management, Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0% substantial stake in the Company, award if it feels the Companys underlying financial performance does not or if the participants Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3% thereby aligning the interests of warrant the level of award resulting from TSR performance alone.
employment is management with shareholders.
Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3% terminated for serious Non-financial these may comprise strategic goals, operational and client misconduct.
The Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3% satisfaction measures for each plan year.
Targets and performance will be clawback may be disclosed retrospectively.
If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards remaining in the plan account will vest in satisfied by a reduction Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set.
For the DEPS and relative TSR tranches of 50%, 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of the SPPs closure.
The in the amount of measures, no more than 25% will be payable for achieving threshold performance, same principles will apply on a later termination of the plan.
any subsisting plan rising to full pay-out for achieving a more challenging target.
Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery of vested shares of an amount equivalent account, a reduction The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial metrics may vary from year to to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan account adopting a in the vesting of any year in accordance with strategic priorities and the regulatory environment.
This amount may assume dividend reinvestment.
Dividends will not accrue on subsisting vested vested but unexercised awards.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan year 5, in the event that the awards or future Committee feels the Companys underlying financial performance over the first share awards and or a five plan years has not been satisfactory, the Committee may scale back the final requirement to make balance of the plan account.
74 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PURPOSE AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS RECOVERY OR STRATEGY WITHHOLDING ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES All employees including Executive The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
75 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE The performance measures that are used in the sustainedperformance plan SPP are a subset of the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
METRIC RATIONALE AND LINK TO THE HOW PERFORMANCE MEASURES STRATEGICKPIS ARE SET Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the total return to IG Groups shareholders, The Committee sets the requirements for TSR relative to a suitable both through share price growth and dividends paid, and each plan year.
The current benchmark benchmark group as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
group comprises the constituents of the FTSE 350 index excluding TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a investment trusts.
range of other metrics, including financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and non-financial indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
Diluted earnings per DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for The Committee determines appropriate share DEPS shareholders, and a reflection of both revenue growth performance targets each year, taking and cost control.
account of the annual and longer-term business plans.
DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the Committee reasonably selects e. g. adjusting for the effects of any share buybacks.
Non-financial performance Specific Specific non-financial criteria include system reliability, The Committee approved, in advance, a non-financial measure customer satisfaction, effective risk management, basket of non-financial measures for the sustaining the Companys excellent reputation and year-ended 31 May 2016. maintaining a good standing with regulators.
Each of Following the end of the year the these measures has a direct impact on a number of Committee assesses performance relative the Groups KPIs, for example, system reliability is a to prior years, internal targets and sector key measure of the resilience of our trading platforms, averages.
Assessment is undertaken in which is an essential element of revenue generation and the round, taking account of activities and client satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction is also measured using the Net For example, for NPS, performance is Promoter Score NPS data supplied by Investment assessed through comparison of the Trends.
NPS is a measure of whether clients would Groups performance against other recommend IG Group.
companies in the sector, with the aim of The basket of measures chosen is considered to provide maintaining a high NPS score relative to the a broader assessment of executive delivery than financial sector average.
Execution and delivery of The delivery of the Groups strategic initiatives is key As part of the Boards strategy planning, key strategic initiatives to the delivery of the strategy and will, over time, drive there is a clear plan of strategic initiatives financial performance and growth.
provided to the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year, which details the underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term.
The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance and managements execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
76 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Annual DEPS targets and non-financial performance measures, ILLUSTRATING THE APPLICATION where used, are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in advancefor OF REMUNERATION POLICY commercial reasons.
We will, however, disclose the measures and targets where applicable used, and the extent to which we have As a result of the Companys remuneration policy, a achieved them, on a retrospective basis, at the end of the relevant significant proportion of the remuneration received by performance period.
Executive Directors depends on the Groups performance.
Incentive plan discretions The chart below shows how total pay for the Chief Executive Officer varies under three different performance scenarios: The Committee will operate the current SPP and other share minimum, target and maximum: plans still in operation according to their respective rules and the policy set out above, and in accordance with the Market Abuse Minimum: This comprises the fixed elements of pay, being Regulations, Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
Copies base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary and pension of the SPP rules are available on request from the Company are effective as at 1 June 2016 and the benefits value is the Secretary.
As is consistent with market practice, the Committee actual value for the year ended 31 May 2015. retains discretion over a number of areas relating to operating and Target: This comprises fixed pay and the target value of SPP administrating these plans.
These include but are not limited to 250% of salary.
the following: Maximum: This comprises fixed pay and the maximum value Who participates in the plans of SPP 500% of salary.
The timing of grant of award and or payment No account has been taken of share price growth, The size of an award and or a payment within the plan limits or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the approved by shareholders deferred element of bonus and SPP awards over the deferral performance periods.
The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan including the treatment of delisted SPP Fixed Pay companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group 4,000 Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the 3,500 event of a change of control or reconstruction 81% Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified 3,000 categories for incentive-plan purposes, based on the rules of 2,500 each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules 2,000 Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights 68% issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a 1,500 change of control 1,000 Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As appropriate, 500 100% 32% 19% it might also be the subject of consultation with the Companys - major shareholders.
Minimum Target Maximum P G Hetherington Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Company has authority to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders previously.
This includes awards made under the value-sharing plan VSP and any other share plans operated by the Company described in more detailin the following section.
77 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 000s DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Sustained performance plan SPP awards EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS As a general rule, if a participant ceases to hold employment or be Executive Directors areemployed under a service contract with IG a Director within the Group, or gives notice of leaving, they forfeit Group Limited a wholly-owned intermediate holding company any entitlement to receive further plan contributions.
All awards for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
subsisting in their plan account at such time are forfeited in full.
The period of notice for existing Executive Directors does However, the situation may be different if the participant ceases not exceed six months and, accordingly, Executive Directors to be an employee or a Director within the Group under certain employment contracts can be terminated on six months notice by circumstances.
These include injury, disability, retirement, either party.
redundancy, the disposal of the participants employing company In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors or the business for which they work by the Group, or other service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his or circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
In this case, her contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the participation in the plan will cease once the plan contributions Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
All service in respect of the plan year in which the cessation arises are contracts are continuous, and contractual termination payments determined.
This will take into account the proportion of the relate to the unexpired notice period.
Ordinarily, the participants plan account On a Directors departure, the Company may at its sole discretion will then vest, yielding one third immediately and thereafter pay base salary and the value of any benefits including pension the remaining balance in equal parts on the first and second that would have been receivable in lieu of any unexpired period anniversary of such determinations.
In the event of termination for gross misconduct, the For the purposes of any awards permitted to vest to leavers as Company may give neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice.
described above, the Committee retains discretion to reduce the Where the Company, acting reasonably, believes it may have a level of vesting that would otherwise result.
It may refer to such right to terminate employment due to gross misconduct, it may time-based adjustments as it considers appropriate.
suspend the executive from employment on full salary for up to 30 Where awards are granted in the form of options, any vested days to investigate the circumstances prevailing.
awards already held at the time of cessation i. e. vested awards The Company may place an executive on gardening leave for held outside the plan account but unexercised will remain up to the duration of the notice period.
During this time, the exercisable for a limited period.
The exception is when dismissal executive will be entitled to receive base salary and all contractual has been for misconduct, in which case such awards lapse in full.
At the end of the gardening leave period, the Company may, at its discretion, pay the executive base Value-sharing plan VSP awards legacy plan salary alone, in lieu of the balance of any period of notice given by As a general rule, awards which have not vested will lapse when the Company or the executive.
This may differ in certain circumstances When considering payments in the event of termination, when there is a good reason for leaving.
Examples include injury, the Remuneration Committee takes into account individual disability, retirement, redundancy, the disposal of the participants circumstances.
Relevant factors include the reasons for employing company or the business for which they work by the termination, contractual obligations and the relevant incentive Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
When determining any loss of office payment for a The Committee has the discretion to determine that an Executive departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise the Director is a good leaver.
In this case, the award will not lapse but cost to the Company while complying with the contractual terms will continue or, if the Committee decides, will vest on cessation and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
to the extent the performance condition is satisfied.
A time The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments pro-rated reduction will apply unless the Committee determines where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an otherwise.
In the event of death, awards will vest at that time to existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such the extent that performance, in the opinion of the Committee, has an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any been satisfied.
claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Change of control Directors office or employment.
The Executive Directors contracts do not provide for any For new executive appointments, the Committee has discretion enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the to offer a longer notice period of up to 12 months to secure Company nor for liquidated damages.
Copies of the Executive an appointment.
Any payments in lieu of notice will be at the Directors service contract are available for inspection at the Committees discretion, and will be limited to base salary and the Companys registered office.
value of benefits including pension as set out above.
78 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For an internal appointment, any variable pay element granted REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS THE COMPANY in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according We have designed the remuneration policy for the Executive to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into account the Directors and senior management with regard to the policy for terms of the Executive Director appointment.
The Committee employees across the Company as a whole.
The Committee will carefully determine the base salary level for a new Executive is kept updated through the year on general employment Director, taking into account the individuals background, skills conditions, basic salary-increase budgets, the level of bonus pools and experience, and the business criticality and nature of the role and pay-outs and participation in share plans.
It will also consider the Companys circumstances The Committee is therefore aware of how total remuneration at and relevant external and internal benchmarks.
Above all, the the Executive Director level compares to the total remuneration Committee must exercise its own judgement in determining the of the general population of employees.
Common approaches to most appropriate salary for the new appointment.
remuneration policy which apply across the Company include: In certain circumstances, the Committee will have set a starting Consistency in pay for performance, with annual bonus base salary which is positioned below the relevant market rate.
It schemes being offered to the vast majority of employees may then wish to adjust the Executive Directors base salary, at a Offering pension, medical, life assurance and other level above the average increase in the Company, as the individual flexible benefits for all employees, where practical given gains experience and establishes a strong performance track geographical location record in the role.
Conversely, the base salary may need to be positioned above the relevant market rate in order to attract the Ensuring that salary increases for each category of employee most appropriate candidate for the role.
are considered, taking into account the overall rate of increase across the Company, benchmarking, and both, Company and We will provide benefits in accordance with the approved policy.
individual performance We may pay relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment as appropriate.
Encouraging broad-based share ownership through the use of all-employee share plans, where practical We will set fees for a new Non-Executive Director or Chairman in accordance with the approved policy.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY The Committees overriding objective is to appoint Executive Directors with the necessary background, skills and experience to ensure the continuing success of the Company.
We recognise that the pace of change and technology development in our industry, as well as the global nature of IG Group, mean that the right individuals may often be highly sought-after.
We set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy, as detailed on page 72of the Directors Remuneration Report, subject to the additional provisions described below.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding any buyout arrangements that we can offer to a new executive on an annual basis will be in accordance with the sustained performance plan limit, being 500% of salary.
In many cases, where we make an external appointment, the individual will forfeit incentive awards connected with their previous employment on resignation.
The Committee may therefore decide to offer further cash or share-based payments to buy-out these existing entitlements by making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the Committees view.
These awards can be made either under the Companys existing incentive plans or via other arrangements.
In determining the appropriate form and amount of any such award, the Committee will consider various factors.
These include the type and quantum of award, the length of the performance period and the performance and vesting conditions attached to each forfeited incentive award.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the SPP for the year of joining the Board, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year when they joined.
79 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR AND LINK TO METRICS WITHHOLDING STRATEGY To attract and retain The Remuneration Committee The Chairman receives a No performance No recovery or Non-Executive determines the fee for single fee to cover all their metrics apply.
Directors of the Chairman without the Board duties.
The Board is responsible receive a fee for carrying out for setting Non-Executive their duties.
They may receive Directors fees.
The additional fees if they chair the Non-Executive Directors are primary Board Committees, not involved in any discussions and for holding the post of or decisions by the Board Senior Independent Director.
Committee membership fees Fees are within the limits may be paid.
set by the Articles of Details of current fee levels are Association and take set out in the Annual Report account of the commitment on Remuneration.
and responsibilities of the relevant role.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts: they are engaged by letters of appointment.
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on three months notice.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee engages proactively with the Companys major shareholders.
For example, when making any material changes to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company.
The Group operates in a number of different environments, and has many employees who carry out diverse roles across a number of countries.
All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, and base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
When considering salary increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce.
However, no remuneration comparison measurements have been utilised to date.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
The Committee is periodically updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across the Company.
80 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION AUDITED This part of the report includes a summary of how we implemented the policy in the financial year ended 31 May 2016 including payment and awards in respect of incentive arrangements, and how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 May 2017.
We also give details of the Remuneration Committees operation, the Directors share interests and how shareholders voted at the 2015 AGM.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2016 Total Single Figure of Remuneration Executive Directors 4 Contribution to SPP plan account Fees basic Benefits in Vested Deferred 2 3 Name of Director Year salary kind Pension element element Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 P G Hetherington 2016 498 1 75 689 1,378 2,067 2,641 2015 283 1 43 292 439 731 1,058 C F Hill 2016 249 1 34 284 2015 331 1 50 273 409 682 1,064 T A Howkins 2016 183 27 210 2015 472 1 71 390 585 975 1,519 1 In 2015, P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro-rata salary of 283,400, based upon a 354,300 full-time equivalent salary, to reflect his flexible working arrangements.
2 Benefits can include private medical cover, discounted gym membership and life assurance cover.
3 The Group contributes 15% of basic salary to personal pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension entitlement in cash.
The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits.
In 2015, bothT A Howkins and C F Hill elected to restrict pension contributions to 40,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
P G Hetherington elected to receive the full pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
4 Figures provided are the values of the SPP contributions in respect of performance for the periods ending 31 May 2016and 31 May 2015 ieplan years 3 and 2.
The vested element is the proportion of the plan year contribution for the relevant period that vests shortly following the end of the financial year.
The deferred element is the proportion that remains deferred in the plan account.
Details of SPP awards held in the plan account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the Outstanding Share Awards table on page 85.
The Remuneration Committee determined that this normal good TIM HOWKINS leaver treatment should apply in Tims case, taking account of the On 21 July 2015, after 16 successful years at IG and almost 9 as following points: Chief Executive, Timannounced his intention to retire at the AGM Tim is retiring after a long and distinguished career with the on 15 October 2015.
Over his career at IG, Tim had been part of Company, including the last 9 years as CEO and led extremely dedicated teams which have built IG from a single office in London to a global leader in the industry.
The strong performance of the Company financial, share price and internationalisation Tim received his base salary, fringe benefits, and pension for his employment with the Company up to the date of the AGM No incentive award will be provided in respect of Tims service and received no payment in lieu of notice for the unexpired part in 2015 16 of his six-month notice period beyond the AGM date.
Tim did The three-year phased vesting of outstanding awards up not receive an incentive award in respect of the 2015 16 year, to 2018 will provide post-cessation continued alignment although he served four and a half months in that year.
with shareholders Tim held deferred awards earned for prior years performance Clawback and malus provisions will remain in place on the under the sustained performance plan SPP.
In accordance deferred amount with the rules governing the plan and the Companys approved Tim is retiring: the Committee retains the discretion to Directors Remuneration Policy, as a retiree, he was treated reconsider the above release of deferred awards if Timtakes as a good leaver.
Accordingly, the 77,039 and 78,742 shares up a new appointment without the prior approval of under award 155,781 in aggregate held in the plan account in the Committee respect of performance periods ending 31 May 2014 and 2015 respectively will vest over the next three years.
These awards together with any dividend shares accruing on these awards up to the point of vesting will vest in three equal tranches on an annual basis over the period 2016-2018 commencing with August 2016, following the results for the 2015 16 financial year.
The normal treatment under the SPP is not to apply a pro-rata reduction as awards granted under the plan are based on performance that has already been achieved.
81 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PETER HETHERINGTON CHRISTOPHER HILL Following Tims retirement at the 2015 AGM, Peterwas appointed On 10 August 2015, the Company announced Chris Hills intention interim CEO and his salary was increased to 486,400.
Following to leave his post as Chief Financial Officer at IG Group to join a thorough search process, the Board was pleased to appoint another company.
To reflect his appointment, Chris served notice of his departure on 10 August 2015 and Peters salary was increased to 575,000.
The Committee was as required under his contract gave 6 months notice to the satisfied that the salary reflects Peters significant experience, Company.
During the period from 10 August to 30 October having held the position of Chief Operating Officer and been a 2015he continued in his role.
Chris ceased to be a Director on member of the Board since 2002.
Furthermore, having undertaken 30 October 2015 and was placed on gardening leave for the a significant search process and extensive external benchmarking, remainder of his notice period.
For the period to February 2016, the Committee is satisfied that his salary is in line with market rates when his notice period ended, he received his base salary, pension for similar positions in the broader industry.
and fringe benefits, consistent with the terms of his contract.
Peters other remuneration arrangements will continue to be in line Chris was not eligible for any incentive award in respect of the with our policy and to reflect his new executive appointment, his 2015 16 year under the SPP.
All unvested SPP awards that he notice period is 12 months.
Total SingleFigure of Remuneration Non-Executive Directors 1 Name of Director Year Base salary Benefits Total 000 000 000 2 A Green 2016 247 247 2015 235 235 S G Hill 2016 70 13 83 2015 70 9 79 J Newman 2016 70 70 2015 65 65 S J Tymms 2016 55 4 59 2015 55 3 58 3 M Le May 2016 39 39 2015 3 J Felix 2016 32 32 2015 4 R P Yates 2016 38 38 2015 70 70 4 J R Davie 2016 2015 73 1 74 4 D M Jackson 2016 2015 29 1 30 1 Certain Non-Executive Directors expenses relating to the performance of a Directors duties such as travel to and from company meetings and related accommodation have been classified as taxable benefits.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Director is kept whole by settling the expense and any related tax.
The figures shown include the cost of the taxable benefit plus the related personal tax charge.
2 A Green joined the Group as Deputy Chairman on 9 June 2014 and succeeded J R Davie as Chairman at the 2014 AGM.
Following a review of Chairmans fees against market rates in companies of a similar size and to reflect MrGreens time commitment, his annual fee was increased to 255,000from 235,000 on 1 November 2015.
3 M Le May joined the Board on 10September 2015.
J Felix joined the Board on 4 September 2015.
4 JR Davie ceased to be Chairman at the 2014 AGM held on 16 October 2014 and D M Jackson ceased to be a Director on 16 October 2014.
R P Yates ceased to be a Director on 15 October 2015.
82 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN SPP DETERMINATION OF SPP PLAN CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2016 Performance targets for plan year 3 financial year ending 31 May 2016 comprised Diluted Earnings per Share DEPS targets, Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
TSR performance was measured over the three-year period from 1 June 2013 to 31May 2016 and DEPS and non-financial measures over the financial year ending 31 May 2016.
Potential as a Threshold 25% Plan contribution Performance percentage of payout for TSR Maximum Actual as percentage of measure Weighting base salary and 0% for DEPS 100% payout performance base salary DEPS 45% 225% 41.00 pence 45.10 pence 44.58pence 196% TSR 35% 175% Median ranking Upper-quartile 71 of 276 172% ranking companies 98.37% vesting Non-financial 20% 100% 0% 100% 83.5% 83% Total 100% 500% 451% PERFORMANCE MEASURES HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016 Diluted earnings per share 45% weighting At the start of the financial year, the Committee established a DEPS range in order to measure the performance and determine the pay-outs under the SPP.
In doing this, the Committee tookinto account a number of relevant factors, including internal and external considerations and an appropriate degree of challenge on the prior years performance, excluding the impact of theSwiss franc event.
In setting the DEPS range for the year ending 31 May 2017, the Committee has considered the annual Board approved budget, market consensus expectations and historical targets andstretchedthe full pay-out level to reflect significant outperformance.
Total Shareholder Return 35% weighting Under the TSR measure, a median ranking against the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts would result in 25% of this element being granted with the full award being granted for upper quartile ranking or better.
The award to be granted for performance between median and upper quartile would be determined on a straight-line basis between these points.
For the award to be granted in respect of plan year 3, TSR was measured over the three-year period from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2016.
Actual TSR performance for the Group, as measured by New Bridge Street, for the three-year period was 61.00% 2015: 48.20%.
Against the peer group this performance ranked IG at 71 out of 276 companies and resulted in 98.37% 2015: 74.50% of the potential pay-out under this measurebeing awarded.
Non-financial measures 20% weighting The Committee approved a series of non-financial measures comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client satisfaction measures, indicative ofthe performance during the year ended 31 May 2016.
These measures are also used for a portionof the staff general bonus pool.
An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures combined with performance under the execution and delivery measures resulted in an overall assessment of 83.5% 2015: 76% of the potential pay-out under this element.
The below table details the individual measures considered and their performance assessment for the year ended 31 May 2016.
METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES System The primary measures used to assess the performance against this metric and the parameters IG strives to 95% reliability uptimeachieve are: 2015: 65% Core dealing availability per month minimum 99.8% Maximum percentage downtime in any one day maximum 4.0% The largest single day outage during the year was in June 2015.
This was caused by a network issue and despite this, clients already online were able to continue to trade throughout and all clients could deal through the mobile apps.
This period is the lowest maximum single day outage IG has ever achieved.
For the remainderof the year, core uptime was 100%.
The Group achieved anoverall yearly uptime percentage of 99.99%, ahead of 99.95% achieved during the year ending 31 May 2015.
Thisis IGs best annual performance to dateand the Group will continue to target aconsistently high level of platform uptime.
83 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Maintaining IG is licensed by ten regulators, as well as being subject to regulatory oversight in all countries where it has a 60% good standing physical presence.
This year, the Group continued to maintain strong relationships with its largest regulators, the 2015: 92.5% relationships with Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC.
In addition regulators to this, the Group continued to build successful, open relationships with its newest regulators in Switzerland and Dubai and has also maintained good relationships with the majority of its other regulators.
However, in certain European jurisdictions there is negative sentiment towards leveraged products as seen with the French marketing and Belgian marketing and product restrictions which hasput a strain on these relationships.
In light of these challenges, a 60% outcome was determined for this measure.
Customer The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure performance against this metric including: 90% satisfaction 2015: 85% Net Promoter Score NPS data is tracked by the Investment Trends studies and is a measure of how likely clients are to recommend IG to others.
IG has improved its NPS scores in five out of six markets that Investment Trends measures.
Further details are given in the KPIs section on page 29of this Annual Report.
During the year, the Group once again commissioned an independent study to conduct a mystery shopping programme ofIG and a number of competitors in the UK.
The study consisted of ten cases being raised with each provider where they were challenged with the same questions or scenarios.
Each case was scored against desired behaviours expected from the case handler.
The result of the study shows that the Group performed consistently well in most categories and ranked once again first in the overall scoring.
The Group continues to engage directly withits clients through focus groups, as well as performing in-depth research to assist in prioritising their needs.
IG has taken significant steps to implement solutions to issues raised, including the improvements made with regards to the client onboarding process and the introduction of a new customer communication system.
During the year, IG has also joined the Institute of Customer Services.
Reputation The Remuneration Committee assessed whether there have been any events resulting in negative media coverage 95% andPR or reputational damage during the year.
2015: 65% The PR surrounding the Swiss franc event in 2015 continued in to this year, with the publication of the FinancialOmbudsman Service outcome, however this was well managed and the negative PR minimised.
In addition, the internal PR team and IGs advisors have done well to minimise the impact of other reputational threats arising from the management changes in the year.
The departure of the CEO, Tim Howkins and the CFO, Christopher Hill, in the early part of the year for entirely understandable reasons, were considered to be very well handled.
While there was less negative PR and risk to IGs reputation to manage this year, the internal PR team and external advisors have worked well, and in collaboration with a number of other teams across the business, to minimise any impact to the IG brand.
Risk During the year, the volatility arising from a number of polictical events and the risks associated with it waswell 90% management managed by all teams.
2015: 0% IGs culture of risk management has delivered robust results throughout the year, despite management changes in some of the departments.
A key focus is now to ensure adequate succession planning.
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES Execution and As part of the Boards strategy planning, there is a clear plan relating to strategic projects provided to the 81.2% delivery of Remuneration Committee at the start of the year.
Thisdetails the underlying projects set for delivery in the 2015: 90% key strategic short-to-medium term.
The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance and managements initiatives execution and delivery of the key strategic initiatives.
There were a number of key strategic projects delivered during the year.
Examples of the projects include: Share dealing roll-out: full re-launch plan including pricing, marketing and product suite developed for the UK offering and implemented successfully.
This is discussed in further details in Our Operational Strategy in Action section on page 22.
Client on-boarding process: implemented a number of improvements to IGs conversion funnels.
This is discussed in further details in Our Operational Strategy in Action section on page 26.
Switzerland, Dubai and Nadex: each of these offices has performed ahead of the years budgeted performance.
However, whilst we have launched and continue to run a number of non-IG generic top-level domainsites including news.
spreadbetting, the expected benefits andmarketing efficiencies have not yet materialised and this investment has been written off.
Accordingly, an outcome of 81.2% was determined for the execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
OVERALL SUMMARY Based on the performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2016, we will grant awards under the SPP to the value of 451% of base salary 90% of the maximum potential pay-out as plan contributions to theExecutive Directorafter the announcement of the results.
The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Directorsplan accountwill be based on the ten-day average share price immediately prior to grant.
84 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR ENDED31 MAY 2016 The SPP awards granted during the financial year ended31 May 2016 in respect of performance to 31 May 2015 plan year 2 are as follows: Contribution Number of Number of options in the Number of options in the Value of Number plan account options vested plan account at options of options after plan year 2 and exercised Number of the end of the 1 2 % of salary awarded awarded contribution during the year options lapsed year T A Howkins 206% 974,493 131,236 259,635 103,854 155,782 C F Hill 206% 682,062 91,854 181,719 72,688 109,031 P G Hetherington 206% 731,182 98,469 194,804 77,922 116,882 1 The number of options contributed to the plan account was based on the 10-day average share price immediately post the announcement date of the Groups results for the year ended 31 May 2015of 742.55pence per share.
Awards were granted in the form of nil cost options and are subject to continued employment and subject to the satisfaction of the underlying financial performance underpin to be tested at the end of plan year 5 as set out in the remuneration policy.
In the case of T AHowkins, his outstanding awards together with any dividends shares accruing on these awards up to the pointof vesting vest in three equal tranches on an annual basis over the period 2016-2018 which began in August 2016.
2 In additionto the awards made in respect ofplan year 2, this also includes the brought forward number of options in the plan account from plan year 1 with its respective accrueddividend shares.
Details of the outstanding SPP share awards, using an estimate of the options to be granted in respect of plan year 3 ieperformance to 31 May 2016 are set out below: OUTSTANDING SPP SHARE AWARDS AS AT THE END OF PLAN YEAR 3 Estimated Options Plan cumulative awarded Contribution number of as dividend in respect unvested Plan account equivalents of period options brought accruing on ended31 May Plan account remaining in forward unvested 2016 estimated following Estimated plan account at number of options during number of contribution for number of the end ofthe 1 2 Event shares the year options the year options vesting year 3 T A Howkins plan year 3 155,782 5,772 161,554 53,797 107,756 P G Hetherington plan year 3 116,882 4,331 265,186 386,399 128,671 257,727 1 P G Hetherington will be granted awards in respect of plan year 3 following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2016 on 19July 2016.
The share price used to calculate the number of awards to be granted will be the ten-day average share price immediately following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2016 on 19July 2016.
As the actual average share price is not known at the time of signing of the Annual Report, the above number of awards has been estimated using a share price of 799.50pence, being the share price on 31May 2016.
Share awards have an exercise price of 0.005 pence and are exercisable until August 2024.
2 In accordance with the scheme rules 33.3% of the cumulative awards in the plan account after the contributions in respect of plan year 3 will vest in August 2016 with the vesting of the remaining options deferred.
The August 2016 vesting will include additional dividend shares accrued as follows in respect of plan year 1 and plan year 2awards held in the plan account T A Howkins 5,772 and P G Hetherington 4,331 based on reinvestment at the dividend payment date.
3 T A Howkins did not receive any awards in respect of plan year 3.
85 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED OTHER SHARE AWARDS OUTSTANDING Number Number awarded exercised Number Share price at Number as at during the Number lapsed during the outstanding at Award date award date 31 May 2015 year during the year year 31 May 2016 P G Hetherington VSP: Profit award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 2,589 VSP: Total shareholder return 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 5,990 award four year SIP:matching shares 26 Jul 13 580.00p 258 258 SIP:matching shares 25 Jul 14 605.80p 594 594 Total 9,431 8,579 852 C Hill VSP: Profit award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 2,589 VSP: Total shareholder return 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 5,990 award four year SIP: matching shares 27 Jul 12 419.18p 328 328 SIP: matching shares 26 Jul 13 580.00p 259 259 SIP: matching shares 25 Jul 14 605.80p 594 594 SIP: matching shares 06 Aug 15 739.50p 486 486 Total 9,760 486 1,339 8,907 T Howkins VSP: Profit award four year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 17,057 17,057 VSP: Profit award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 4,314 4,314 VSP: Total shareholder return 20 Jul 11 450.00p 9,985 9,985 award four year Total 31,356 31,356 TABLE OF DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS % of salary held under shareholding 4 5 2 1 Legally owned SIP SPP awards Total Policy 31 May 2015 31 May 2016 Awards held Vested but 31 May 2016 % salary in plan account unexercised Executive Directors T Howkins 1,621,183 161,556 161,556 0% C Hill 43,928 0% 3 P Hetherington 129,899 175,094 852 121,214 297,160 282% Non-Executive Directors J Felix 0% A Green 6,881 6,881 22% S G Hill 80,707 83,665 83,665 956% M Le May 0% J A Newman 0% S J Tymms 0% R P Yates 25,000 0% 1 Calculated as shares owned on 31May 2016at the closing mid-market share price of 799.5p.
2 This figure excludes awards under the SPP scheme for performance year ending 31 May 2016which will be granted following the announcement of the Groups results on 19July 2016.
The awards held in the plan account include those in respect of plan year 1 and 2 as at 31 May 2016.
3 P Hetherington also held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2016and 31 May 2015.
4 This figure includes partnership shares that are purchased as part of the Groups share incentive plan SIP which are not subject to vesting conditions.
5 This figure shows the number of matching shares held at 31 May 2016as part of the Groups SIPwhich will vests after three years from the respective award date, as long as employees remained employed by the Group.
86 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the CEO is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
There have been no changes to any of the Directors share interests in the period since 31 May 2016.
The awards to be made under the Companys SPP in respect of the performance period ending on 31 May 2016 are set out earlier in this report and are not included in this table.
Remuneration is included in the financial year in which performance is measured against.
2 Given the move away from separate annual and long-term plans to a single variable pay plan in the 2014 financial year, the performance based remuneration consists of the SPP award and legacy VSP plans only.
The change is calculated based on the change in the total of the SPP contribution for the plan year and the VSP vesting in that year.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSOUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS Peter has no other external appointments.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table sets out the profit, dividends and overall spend on pay over the past five financial years: 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 m m m m m Profit after tax 164.3 131.9 147.2 141.7 136.8 Dividends 114.9 102.7 102.8 84.6 81.6 Employee remuneration 113.5 94.3 89.3 86.3 92.7 costs Average number of 1,412 1,287 1,070 1,005 960 employees NBS provided advice in respect of a wide range of issues, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS including advice on the operation of the sustained performance During the year, the Committee undertook a questionnaire based plan, TSR performance monitoring, drafting the Remuneration review of its own effectiveness.
The evaluation process was Report, remuneration benchmarking and share plan externally facilitated by Lintstock as part of the overall annual implementation services.
NBSs fee for advice provided to the Board effectiveness review.
Overall, the review concluded that the Remuneration Committee during the financial year ending 31 May Committee is effective and its performance was rated highly.
Committee however could further enhance its effectiveness with more training and support on regulatory changes in the area of remuneration and the implications for remuneration policy.
ADVICE TO THE COMMITTEE During the financial year ended 31 May 2016 the Committee consulted the Chief Executive about remuneration matters relating to individuals other than himself.
The Company Secretary also provided advice and support to the Committee.
Appropriate Company employees and external advisers may attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year by New Bridge Street NBS, which was appointed following a competitive tender process in early 2013.
The Committee considers the advice obtained from NBS to be objective and independent.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
87 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT 2015 AGM At the October 2015 AGM, a resolution was proposed for shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 May 2015.
The following votes were received: 2015 Remuneration Report Total number of votes % of votes cast 1 For 291,724,694 99.01% Against 2,921,312 0.99% Total 294,646,006 100% Withheld 12,832,545 1 For includes votes at the Chairmans discretion.
A majority over 50% of the votes cast was required for the resolutions to be passed, and all were duly approved by shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN CHART The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 index.
As IG Group is a member of this index, the Committee believes it is appropriate to compare the Groups performance against it.
This graph shows the value, by 31 May 2016, of 100 invested in IG Group on 31 May 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in 500 IG Group FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Financial Services 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 May 09 May 10 May 11 May 12 May 13 May 14 May 15 May 16 Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE EARNINGS HISTORY The earnings history of the Chief Executive is shown in the table below: 2 3 Financial Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Single figure remuneration 000 1,628 1,141 2,201 1,103 1,970 1,519 2,745 Annual bonus outcome % maximum 100% 7% 99% 47% LTIP vesting outcome % maximum 48% 40% 61% 1 VSP vesting outcome % maximum 6% 3% 0% 1 SPP plan contribution % maximum 54% 41% 90% 1 The SPP replaced the annual bonus and VSP schemes from the financial year ending31 May 2014.
2 The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014.
Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remaining vesting on 21 July 2015.
The value of these awards provided in last years remuneration report was based on an estimated share price.
We have restated the amounts now as 2014 prior year comparatives using the actual share price on 22 July 2014 619.5 pence, for half the awards and the average three-month share price for period ending 31 May 2015 740.9 pence for the remaining awards.
3 Includes the base salariespaid to both T A Howkins and P G Hetherington for their tenure of the CEO position during the year.
88 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Total Shareholder Return Rebased CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairman of Board Risk Committee additional fee: 15,000 IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2017 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee additional fee: 15,000 The Committee decided not to apply an increase to Peters salary in the financial year 2017.
Senior Independent Director fee: 10,000 new fee introduced from 1 June 2016 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will not receive an Each year, the Board reviews the Non-Executive Director fees additional fee the Remuneration Committee reviews the Chairmans fees.
This year, as part of the review, the Board instructed NBSto carry out Benefits and pension an external benchmarking exercise to assist the Board with the A flexible benefits programme will apply, which includes a fee-review process.
Following the review, a decision was made to companypension to a maximum of 15% of base salary, cash of set the Non-Executive Directors fees as follows: equivalent value or a mixture of both.
The fee was increased from 235,000by Sustained performance plan the Committee in November 2015after taking into account the For the awards to be granted in respect of plan year 4, which will Chairman fee levels in the market and time commitment end on 31 May 2017, maximum opportunity of 500% of annual Non-Executive Director base fee: 65,000 increased from rate of base salary will apply for Executive Directors.
55,000 during the financial year ending 31 May2016 The performance targets for these awards are shown below.
Chairman of the Audit Committee additional fee: 15,000 MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL MEASUREMENT WEIGHTING PERIOD PLAN YEARS Diluted earnings The Committee has determined a sliding scale Financial year ending 45% per share of targets that will apply for the financial year 31May 2017 ending 31 May 2017.
Relative Total Performance is measured against constituents The three financial years 35% Shareholder Return of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts.
ending 31 May 2017 No part of this element will be awarded if performance is below median.
25% will be awarded for median, increasing on a straight-line basis, with full vesting for upper-quartile performance or better.
The Committees discretion to scale back vesting will apply as set out in the Policy Report.
Non-financial measures The measures will include: Financial year ending 20% 31May 2017 System reliability Maintaining good standing with regulators Customer satisfaction Reputation and PR Risk management Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives The Committee will ensure the DEPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching.
We deem the DEPS and non-financial measures themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively.
However, we will provide retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them in next years remuneration report.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 July 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Malcolm Le May Chair, Remuneration Committee 89 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
