OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Remuneration Summary The Committees Aim Our remuneration policy incentivises management to deliver our strategy, building on the Companys track record.
Our remuneration packages comprise: Fixed elements Variable elements salary annual bonus pension long-term incentive plan benefits Turn to page 55 for further details of our remuneration policy Remuneration is weighted towards performance related variable elements with targets aligned to the key performance indicators David Haines we use to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy.
Chairman Under the proposed remuneration policy the potential reward opportunity for Alison Cooper, our Chief Executive, in the 2017 Our remuneration policy incentivises financial year is: management to deliver against our Minimum 100% 1,657 strategic objectives.
Target 43% 27% 30% 3,889 Members David Haines Chairman Karen Witts Max 19% 25% 56% 8,486 Ken Burnett to 3 February 2016 Malcolm Wyman Actual FY16 29% 27% 44% 5,537 Therese Esperdy from 1 July 2016 Trevor Williams Committee Secretary Michael Herlihy 000 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 Steven Stanbrook from 8 February 2016 Salary, pension and benets Other regular attendees 1 Annual bonus Board Chairman Group Reward and Capability 1 Director LTIP Chief Executive New Bridge Street, the Group Company Secretary 2 1 Committees principal advisor Summary of Total Remuneration for each Executive Director 2016 Group Human Resources Director 1.
Specifically excluded when their own remuneration or conditions of service Share Shareare under discussion.
Taxable Annual plans save Pension 000 Salary benefits bonus vesting vesting benefits Total 2.
Executive Directors Focus in 2016 Alison Cooper 1,020 17 1,469 2,441 590 5,537 following the acquisition of assets in the USA, ongoing monitoring Oliver Tant 649 17 934 986 169 2,755 of performance conditions to ensure incentive pay-out levels Matthew appropriately reflect the intentions of the Committee and the Phillips 541 24 779 757 4 434 2,539 remuneration policy at the time of grant 2,210 58 3,182 4,184 4 1,193 10,831 use of discretion to increase revenue targets for in-flight LTIPs to mitigate the one off uplift from the acquisition of assets in the USA Turn to page 63 one off increase in EPS and revenue targets for the FY16 LTIP to read the full details in our Remuneration Report.
grant to mitigate the part year uplift from the acquisition of assets in the USA A Track Record of Out-performance review of remuneration policy and positioning in light of the Execution of our strategy has resulted in Imperial Brands outperforming changed profile of the business following the successful USA the FTSE and delivering a total shareholder return of 212%, as set out acquisition, the Groups strategic objectives and to address real in the chart below.
concern regarding the Groups ability to retain and attract executive talent Total Return Indices Imperial Brands and FTSE 100 350 Focus for 2017 consultation with major shareholders on proposed changes to the 300 remuneration policy in order to address real concern regarding 250 the Groups ability to retain and attract executive talent 200 implementation of proposed changes 150 ongoing monitoring of remuneration policy and performance conditions to ensure they appropriately support and incentivise 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 delivery of the Groups strategic objectives Imperial Brands FTSE 100 FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2016.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over an eight-year period.
com 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Consultation DEAR SHAREHOLDER To address this we developed proposals to increase the opportunity Our approach to remuneration aims to incentivise the delivery of within our variable compensation and consulted many of our largest our strategy and create strong alignment between the interests of investors.
During this process I was very pleased to hear consistent shareholders and senior management over the long term.
strong support for our management team and their successful We achieve this by ensuring: execution of our strategy: as well as a shared understanding of the the Group is able to attract and motivate the high calibre of issue we face on remuneration and support for addressing it.
international executives required: There were divergent views on how this might best be achieved: members of our executive team have the opportunity to earn many shareholders were supportive of the continued emphasis on competitive levels of reward for delivery of strong performance long-term variable pay, while others suggested increases to fixed in the context of the roles they perform: pay, either through higher base pay, or the use of restricted stock.
we have the appropriate performance measures to align executive The use of restricted stock for Board executives in the UK remains and shareholder interests and expectations: and at an early stage, and whilst we would not rule this out for the future, executive remuneration is not excessive but is fair and our current preference is to increase the LTIP opportunity as this will competitive: in particular, we guard against rewards for failure.
only increase pay if performance is delivered.
Our Performance Record Some investors also considered that an increase in pay opportunity In the six years since we introduced our current strategy we should be accompanied by higher performance targets.
In our have significantly outperformed the FTSE 100, delivering a Total situation, a balanced approach is required since we are seeking to Shareholder Return TSR of 174 per cent compared to the index address a significant shortfall in opportunity and the resulting pay over the same period of 55 per cent.
for performance, and to increase performance levels too far would risk undermining our original intent.
I am pleased to say that this strong performance continued over the last year.
We successfully integrated the $7.2 billion acquisition of We therefore intend to raise the level of EPS performance required to brands and assets from Reynolds American in the USA, enhancing achieve maximum pay-out under the LTIP.
However, we would not our footprint in one of the worlds most profitable tobacco markets.
wish to disguise the fact that our proposals allow us to pay more for Our larger USA business, ITG Brands, made an excellent contribution the delivery of the levels of performance seen in recent years, and to our results in the year.
We also further improved the quality of we believe this is entirely appropriate.
our growth by increasing the contribution from our Growth and A number of shareholders raised a view that the weighting on Specialist Brands, which now account for 60.1 per cent of the Groups EPS was quite high and could be replaced, in part, by operational tobacco net revenue.
Our strong financial performance included measures.
The possibility of increased shareholding requirements adjusted earnings per share growth of 12 per cent, cash conversion was also raised together with a post-exit shareholding requirement.
of 95 per cent and dividend growth of 10 per cent.
Both these points were taken on board by the Committee.
Our performance resulted in an annual bonus pay-out for Executive I appreciate that we operate within a broader social context and Directors of 72 per cent of maximum opportunity.
Our track record of recent years have seen a rise in concerns about executive pay in success over the longer term started to be reflected in the outcome general.
We are sympathetic to concerns about pay increases which of the long-term plans, with vesting of approximately 59 per cent do not reflect performance.
under the LTIP awards made in December 2013, and approximately 19 per cent vesting in respect of SMS awards made in February 2014.
However, businesses such as ours are essential to the economy and it is in the interests of all our stakeholders that they should be The Issue We Face managed as well as possible to produce optimal performance.
To that Despite this strong performance, the pay of our executive team has end, we believe it is right and necessary that our executive team has been significantly below the average for companies of our size for the opportunity to earn competitive levels of reward for delivery some time.
I am concerned that if we do not address the situation, of strong performance.
This change also provides headroom for we will be put at an unnecessary risk with regard to retaining our increases below executive level, where required, to attract and senior team, especially as we embark upon the next decade of our retain the talent necessary to drive the business forward.
Over the past three years we made a number of changes to our remuneration policy, which addressed part of the problem by bringing salaries into line with the market.
At the same time we also strengthened governance through a shift towards long-term pay, the introduction of holding periods on vested shares and the strengthening of malus and claw back provisions.
However, when we look at overall levels of pay we continue to pay below competitive levels in the context of the very strong performance of the business.
The underlying reason for this is that our variable pay opportunity falls short of that offered elsewhere.
52 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Proposed Changes for 2017 Following consultation with shareholders our proposal is to: increase the opportunity under our LTIP by 100 per cent of base salary: increase the EPS target for maximum vesting from 8 per cent to 9 per cent growth per annum: introduce cash conversion as a performance measure into the LTIP: raise the shareholding requirement for the CEO from 300 per cent to 400 per cent of base salary: and introduce a post-exit shareholding requirement for the CEO of 100 per cent of base salary for two years.
As a result, our LTIP performance criteria reflect the key performance indicators aligned to our strategy: growth in revenue and earnings, the conversion of earnings to cash supporting investment in our brands and our commitment to 10 per cent dividend growth and the resulting creation of shareholder value.
In increasing the LTIP opportunity we are not seeking to address historic underpayment but are ensuring that our management team has the opportunity to earn competitive reward for continued high performance in future years.
The Committee will ensure that performance conditions remain stretching but realistic.
Our recent history demonstrates that we have consistently upheld this principle: at the start of this year, the Committee used its discretion to increase revenue targets for all inflight LTIPs to remove the positive impact of the USA acquisition to ensure only organic growth is rewarded and, for one grant, increased the earnings per share and revenue targets in the 2016 LTIP grant to reflect the partial year uplift from the same acquisition.
For our 2017 financial year, we have made salary increases in line with the Company as a whole to two of the three Executive Directors.
The Committee made a higher increase to the CFO to reflect both his increased responsibilities in an expanded role incorporating Group Procurement and Group Information Systems, and the competitive CFO market.
Our expectation is that future increases, for all Executive Directors, will all be broadly aligned with those across the Company.
As I have said in previous reports, I am confident that we have built strong links between our reward programmes and the key performance indicators used to measure the progress in delivering our strategy.
The changes we are now proposing strengthen both these links and our competitive positioning, to ensure we are able to retain our successful management team and recruit the next generation when the time comes.
As such, we believe the changes we are proposing to our policy are very much in the best interests of both the Company and shareholders, and I look forward to your support.
David Haines Chairman of the Remuneration Committee www.
com 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE The Committees full terms of reference provide further details of The Role of the Remuneration Committee the role and responsibilities of the Committee and are available on our website.
The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to the Committee.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors which we consider fundamental in ensuring Executive The Committees principal function is to support the Groups strategy Directors and senior executives remuneration is set by people who by ensuring its delivery is incentivised by the remuneration policy.
are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than It also determines the specific remuneration package, including as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
service contracts and pension arrangements, for each Executive Director and our most senior executives.
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee meeting allows the members to meet without any Executive The Committee held four meetings during the financial year.
Director or other manager being present.
The Committees responsibilities include: This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions ensuring remuneration arrangements support our strategy, align of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and The Large and Mediumwith our values and drive performance: sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets the requirements the business environment of the countries in which we operate, of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high calibre Transparency Rules.
In this Report we describe how the principles individuals: of good governance relating to directors remuneration, as set out in aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code, are applied in long-term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration is practice.
The Committee confirms that throughout the financial year fair but not excessive: the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
assessing the output from the Board evaluation process insofar as it relates to the Committee: The Regulations require our auditors to report to shareholders on making recommendations to the Board in respect of our the audited information within this Report and to state whether, Chairmans fees: in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The auditors opinion is set out on page setting targets for performance related elements: 75 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report.
oversight of our overall policy for senior management remuneration and of our employee share plans: and ensuring appropriate independent advisors are appointed to provide advice and guidance to the Committee.
Remuneration Committee Meetings Held in the 2016 Financial Year Four Committee meetings were held in the 2016 financial year and included the following matters on the agenda: Oct Apr Jun Sept Directors Remuneration Review of terms of reference Review of proposals for Market practice update Report remuneration policy AGM voting and shareholder Potential outturn for FY16 FY15 Bonus payments feedback Investor communications bonus, LTIP and SMS for proposed policy FY16 Bonus target finalisation Update on remuneration Update on policy proposals and governance FY17 salary and incentive LTIP satisfaction of structures vesting criteria Review of remuneration policy Review of Chairmans fees LTIP 2016 grant and performance criteria SMS lapsing of Directors award as vesting criteria not met Approval of 2016 Sharesave grant 54 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Our strategy and business model drive our remuneration policy.
Our policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, base salary, with significant weighting towards performance-based elements, the measures of which incentivise and support the delivery of our strategy whilst also reflecting individual, functional and corporate performance.
We aim to set and rigorously apply targets that are both stretching and achievable.
As stated earlier in this Report, we reviewed our remuneration policy in 2016.
As a result of this review and shareholder feedback received during consultation, we have revised the remuneration policy.
The changes to our policy are summarised in the table below and the rationale for these changes is set out in the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 52 and 53.
Other elements of our remuneration policy have not changed.
Element Previous policy New policy Maximum No maximum for base salary.
Whilst there is no maximum salary or maximum increase in salary salary the Committee would only set a salary which exceeded the top quartile Maximum of salaries of the comparator group in unforeseen and exceptional increase in circumstances.
salary Long-Term Maximum award sizes: Maximum award sizes: Incentive Chief Executive Officer: 350% of base salary.
Chief Executive Officer: 450% of base salary.
Plan maximum Other Executive Directors: 250% of base Other Executive Directors: 350% of base salary or such lower sum award sizes salary or such lower sum as determined by as determined by the Committee.
Chief The Chief Executive is expected to build a holding The Chief Executive is expected to build a holding broadly equivalent to Executive broadly equivalent to 300 per cent of base salary 400 per cent of base salary over a period of five years from appointment.
shareholding over a period of five years from appointment.
guidelines Post exit No requirement.
The CEO will have a post exit shareholding requirement of 100 per cent shareholding of salary for two years post exit.
requirement It is intended that the remuneration policy set out in this Report will, if approved, for the purposes of section 226D 6 b of the Act, take effect immediately after the AGM on 1 February 2017. www.
com 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Salary Attract and retain high Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Committee taking Whilst there is no performing individuals, into account each Executive Directors performance together with changes maximum salary or reflecting market value in role and responsibility.
maximum increase of role and the Executive in salary, the Salary increases, if any, are generally effective from 1 October.
Directors skills, Committee would experience and The Committee considers pay data for UK listed companies closest to us by only set a salary performance.
which exceeded the FTSE ranking and excluding those in the financial services sector.
These comparators serve to define a playing field within which an individuals top quartile of salaries of the comparator reward needs to be positioned.
In determining individual remuneration, the primary factors taken into account are individual performance, the scale of group in unforeseen and exceptional the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, their ability and experience.
The Committee takes into account each Executive Directors performance, together with changes in role and responsibility and considers general increases for the UK wider management population.
Benefits Competitive benefits Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, life insurance The level of benefit taking into account and permanent health insurance which are provided directly or through provision is fixed.
market value of role and the Company pension scheme.
benefits offered to the Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if when applicable.
Annual Incentivise delivery of At least 60% of the annual bonus will be linked to key financial metrics 200% of base salary Bonus Group strategic objectives and no more than 15% will be linked to individual measures.
or such lower sum Plan and enhance as determined by Performance below the threshold results in zero payment.
Payments rise performance, including the Committee.
from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance against the indicators between the threshold and maximum targets.
we use to measure our performance as detailed Half of any annual bonus paid would be in deferred shares to be held for on pages 6 and 7. a minimum of three years, with the other half paid in cash.
Malus provisions apply before payment and claw back provisions are in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus.
The deferred shares are not subject to performance conditions.
Share Incentivise the delivery The award granted in February 2014 was the last in which Executive Maximum match is Matching of Group strategic targets.
Directors were eligible to participate.
However, these outstanding awards 1:1 on shares invested Scheme Promote share ownership will vest in February 2017 in line with the achievement of the relevant plus dividend no further worldwide across the performance conditions.
awards to Imperial Brands The three-year award had performance conditions based on financial be made to management team.
In respect of each element, performance below Executive threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance Directors element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance between threshold and maximum.
There is no opportunity to retest and claw back provisions are in place.
Dividends accrue on vested shares and will be paid on vesting in February 2017.
56 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued Purpose and link Element Operation Maximum opportunity to strategy Long-Term Incentivise long-term Awards granted during or after January 2015 Chief Executive Incentive Group financial Officer: 450% of Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at the Plan performance in line base salary.
beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are based with the Groups 20% on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR vs a peer group and 80% on Other Executive strategic objectives, financial measures.
Directors: 350% of base including against salary or such lower the indicators we In respect of each performance element, performance below the threshold sum as determined use to measure our target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance element starts by the Committee.
performance as at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance between the threshold detailed on pages and maximum targets.
Plus shares equivalent 6 and 7, and long-term to the value of the There is no opportunity to re-test.
Claw back and malus provisions are in place.
Dividend equivalents accrued on vested shares are paid at the time Align Executive of vesting.
Directors interests with those of longAny awards which vest will be subject to a further two-year holding term shareholders.
Awards granted November 2013 Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are based 50% on TSR vs a peer group and 50% on financial measures with underpins.
In respect of each performance element, performance below the threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
Claw back provisions are in place.
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting.
Pensions Attract and retain Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with other Current policy is for high performing employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK the Fund.
Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 2010 are members and cash supplement of the defined benefit section whereas Executive Directors joining the Fund limit of 26% of salary.
on or after this date are offered membership of the defined contribution Existing members section.
Executives have the option to receive a cash supplement in lieu of of the defined benefit membership of the Fund, or in lieu of accrual on pensionable salary above section have a cash in the Funds earnings cap, or in lieu of future service accrual.
lieu of pension accrual Members of the defined benefit section of the Fund accrue pension at a rate limit of 35% of salary.
between 1 47th and 1 60th of pensionable salary.
Further detail is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 65 and 66.
The rules of the Fund detail the pension benefits which members can receive on retirement, death or leaving service.
The Committee may amend the form of any Executive Directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of an Executive Directors pension provision.
Note: Legacy awards Subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payments, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award including under the Share Matching Scheme, outlined on page 56 made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy.
com 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Committee Discretions Relating to Variable Pay Schemes The Committee operates each of the Companys incentive plans for which it has responsibility according to their respective rules and, where relevant, in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee has discretion, consistent with market practice, in respect of, but not limited to: participants: the timing of grant of an award and or payment: the size of an award subject to the maxima set out in our policy : the performance measures and targets: the determination of vesting and confirmation that the calculation of performance is made in an appropriate manner, with due consideration of whether and, if so, how adjustments should be made subject to the provision that any adjustments to targets set should result in the revised target being no less challenging than the original target : discretion required when dealing with a change of control and any adjustments required in special circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and determination of a good bad leaver for plan purposes based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
In relation to the Annual Bonus, LTIP and legacy SMS awards, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets set if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than was intended.
Adjustment may also be made for any changes to accounting policy over the performance period.
Any use of discretion beyond the normal operation of the plan would be justified in the Annual Report on Remuneration and, if appropriate, be subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Sharesave plan is as permitted under HMRC rules.
In the past two years the Committee has exercised its discretion on two occasions: both of these were to increase targets within the LTIP in order to reduce payments following the acquisition of USA assets, in order to ensure that the rewards received by the management team were in line with the Committees original intentions when it set the performance criteria.
The Committee will continue to review targets to ensure they reflect its original intentions, and this may include any discretion required due to the impact of the recently announced strategic investments.
Payments from Existing Awards Subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this Report.
Performance Measure Selection The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives.
The Committee reviews the performance measures annually and whilst it still considers adjusted EPS, net revenue and relative TSR to be appropriate measures of long-term performance for the Group, it has introduced a cash conversion measure to increase the focus on the financial discipline required to support our ongoing investment behind our growth strategy and our dividend commitment.
TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for out-performance of sector peers.
EPS provides strong line-of-sight for Executive Directors and supports the Groups long-term strategy.
Net revenue supports the Companys focus on organic growth.
Performance measures are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Other employees are eligible to participate in performance led annual bonus plans.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP c. 55 individuals and the majority of members of the Corporate Management Group are eligible to participate in the SMS c. 1,000 individuals.
58 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS TOTAL REMUNERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR A MINIMUM, TARGET AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE Total Remuneration by Performance Scenario for 2016 17 Financial Year 000 Chief Executive officer 000 Chief Financial officer 000 Chief Development officer 10000 5000 5000 4,750 52% 8,486 4,070 8000 4000 4000 56% 48% 6000 3000 3000 2,211 2,055 3,889 4000 29% 2000 2000 28% 27% 24% 30% 25% 32% 27% 1,012 2000 898 1,657 27% 1000 1000 100% 49% 25% 100% 40% 19% 100% 43% 19% 0 0 0 Minimum Target Max Minimum Target Max Minimum Target Max Salary, pension and benets Annual bonus LTIP The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Minimum: fixed remuneration only i. e. salary, benefits and pension.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Note that Imperial Brands does not have a stated target for either its financial measures or incentive pay-outs.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Executive Directors Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service agreements normally continue until their agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one years notice and contain no liquidated damages provisions nor any other entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a defined period.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions and 5 per cent of base salary in respect of other benefits but these are at the Committees sole discretion.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
The circumstances of any termination including performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses would be taken into account in every case: our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
For Executive Directors leaving employment for specified reasons including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the business or company in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control annual bonus awards will be based on performance, adjusted for time served, and paid at the same time as for other employees.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances.
Under the rules of both the LTIP and the legacy SMS, outstanding awards vest if a participant leaves for the specified reasons as detailed above.
In these circumstances awards vest as the Committee determines having regard to the time the award has been held and the achievement of the performance criteria.
Awards will vest either on termination of employment or, for awards granted under the policy approved by shareholders in 2014 and under the proposed policy, at the normal vesting date, as the Committee determines in its absolute discretion.
If the termination of employment is not for one of the specified reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, awards lapse entirely.
Executive Directors Service Agreements Compensation on termination following Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date a change of control Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions www.
com 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Recruitment of Executive Directors The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
Any such buyout awards would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such awards at the time of appointment.
The Committee may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
The Committee confirms that this provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration lost.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay-out according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following their appointment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and within the limits set by the Committee.
Shareholding Guidelines Whilst placing significant weight on annual performance, our policy aligns the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the long term.
To support this alignment, we have share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in our shares.
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Groups shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to 400 per cent of salary increased from 300 per cent for the Chief Executive and 300 per cent for other Executive Directors.
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
The Committee is also introducing a post-exit shareholding requirement for the Chief Executive of 100 per cent of salary for two years post-exit.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Consultation with Employees Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the remuneration policy, the Committee does consider the general base salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared to Other Employees The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is designed having regard to the remuneration policy for employees across the Group.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility.
The key difference is the increased emphasis on long-term performance related pay for Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, is considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration policy review.
The Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are made to the remuneration policy the Committee chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
In line with this policy, the Committee consulted with the Companys major shareholders on proposed changes to the remuneration policy between August and October 2016.
During these consultations the Committee was pleased to hear of the strong support for the management team and the Groups strategy as well as the recognition of the current issue of low variable remuneration opportunity compared to peers.
A variety of possible solutions were suggested including an increase to fixed remuneration, increases to existing incentive plans or the introduction of a restricted stock plan.
As a result of the consultation the Committee proposes an increase to LTIP opportunity of 100 per cent of base salary, bringing remuneration opportunity more in line with peers but with additional rewards only paid for performance.
By providing the management team with the opportunity to earn competitive rewards for high performance the Committee believes that the Company is better positioned to retain the existing successful management team and attract new talent as we enter the next phase of our growth strategy.
60 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Alison Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape plc and was permitted to retain the 59,167 fee received from this position in the financial year.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees Attract and retain high Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Board No prescribed performing individuals.
after recommendation by the Committee in respect of the Chairman.
maximum annual Portion of fees applied increase.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 October.
to purchase of shares Aggregate annual to align interests with The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee considers pay data at fees limited to 2.0 those of shareholders.
comparator companies of similar scale.
million by Articles of Association.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees receive additional fees.
It is proposed that from February 2017 additional fees will also be paid for Committee memberships.
No eligibility for annual bonus, retirement benefits or to participate in the Groups employee share plans.
Benefits Travel to the Companys Travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a Grossed-up costs registered office.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by the Board on 2 February 2016.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
com 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION HOW THE COMMITTEE IMPLEMENTED THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 Implementing Executive Policy and Practice In implementing the Companys remuneration policy as detailed on pages 48 to 53 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2014 available on our website, the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considered pay data at comparator companies of similar scale, primarily looking at a market capitalisation group made up of 10 companies above and 10 companies below Imperial Brands in the FTSE, excluding Financial Services.
Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to define a playing field within which an individuals reward needs to be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, their ability, experience and performance.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
During the year the Committee exercised its discretion to ensure that remuneration appropriately reflects management performance by increasing targets within long-term incentives.
Revenue targets within all in-flight LTIPs were increased to reflect the impact of the one-off uplift from the acquisition of assets in the USA thereby only rewarding organic revenue growth.
For the same reason the Committee implemented a one off increase in EPS and revenue targets for the LTIP grant made during the year to mitigate the part year uplift from the acquisition of assets in the USA.
Linking Remuneration with Strategy We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash flows.
Ensuring that our sales growth drivers and key enablers are supported and their delivery incentivised by our remuneration policy is key to maximising long-term returns to shareholders.
Alignment with Sustainable growth is at the heart of our strategy.
This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of growth our Strategy within our variable remuneration both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Stretching performance targets incentivise the delivery of sales and the creation of shareholder value.
Managing our costs and cash flows are the other elements of our strategic focus.
Profitability, mainly in the form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP whilst cash conversion forms a measure for the annual bonus.
Alignment with our To align their interest with shareholders, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the Shareholders Companys shares through both direct shareholdings supported by shareholding requirements for senior executives and through our share plans, with the value of the Corporate Management Groups overall remuneration being heavily influenced by the performance of our share price.
Attracting and Retaining Our remuneration policy is designed to ensure a high quality pool of talented employees at all levels who the Right People are engaged and incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, without encouraging them to take undue risks.
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure.
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance based elements.
Taxable benefits principally include an allowance 15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant in lieu of or the provision of a company car 22,597 in respect of Matthew Phillips, fuel and health insurance.
Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to meetings held at the Companys registered office.
Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2016.
In line with policy half of the net value is deferred in shares for three years: no further performance conditions apply.
Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of 40.1689 being the three-month average to 30 September 2016.
The 2015 estimated figure has been restated to reflect actual share price at the date of vesting.
Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise.
These sharesave options were the only options exercised in the year: 195 shares in respect of Matthew Phillips.
Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on pages 65 and 66.
Ken Burnett retired from the Board on 3 February 2016.
Therese Esperdy was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016.
Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fees of 25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Remuneration and Audit Committees at an annual rate of 25,000.
Steven Stanbrook was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2016.
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred grossed up for tax where expenses represent a taxable benefit.
No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances.
No Directors waived their fees.
No payments were made to former directors nor were any payments made for loss of office during the year.
Additional Notes to the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Audited This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.
In particular, it details the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and for each share plan, namely the SMS and LTIP.
Determination of 2016 Annual Bonus Management delivered a good performance in the year to 30 September 2016, strengthening our brands and market footprint and delivering strong cash conversion.
As a result, we are a stronger business and continued to deliver a 10 per cent increase in annual dividend.
The annual bonus payment, determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2016, is 72 per cent of maximum opportunity 2015: 80 per cent.
The Committee believes this to be an appropriate reflection of the performance and progress made through the year.
com 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance against individual measures is set out below: Maximum Actual Performance target Assessment percentage percentage of bonus of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Performance is measured based on EPS growth at constant currency.
Increases in top line 35 29 KPI constant currency revenues together with a strong focus on cost and cash opportunities provided growth in EPS of 12.0 per cent.
This delivered an 83 per cent achievement against a cut in of 7.0 per cent and a maximum target of 13.0 per cent.
KPI Cash conversion Performance is measured as cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
25 25 Instilling a more cost conscious culture, efficiently managing our cost base and our commitment to capital discipline enabled cash conversion of 95 per cent.
This delivered a 100 per cent achievement against a cut in of 80.0 per cent and a maximum target of 92.0 per cent.
Volume growth in 15 9 Performance is measured based on volume growth of our Growth Brands relative to the market.
KPI Growth Brands Consistent focus on developing our Growth Brands, through investments, migrations and choices in market, has enabled us to further optimise our brand portfolio and build the strength of our key brand assets.
Growth Brand volumes increased by 5.1 per cent relative to the market.
This delivered a 60 per cent achievement against a cut in of parity with the external market and a maximum target of 8.5 per cent out performance.
Non-financial Non-financial measures consisted of a market share target.
15 0 We showed strong results across a broad spread of markets, with resilience in Returns markets and positive performance across Growth markets.
However, the threshold target was not met.
Individual objectives Executive Directors have delivered strongly against their individual objectives, particularly in 10 9 the successful integration of the acquired USA assets.
Achievement of bonus 100 72 for 2016 KPI Key Performance Indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on page 6 and 7.
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to malus provisions before payment and claw back during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned.
Claw back may be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
Share Matching Scheme The final SMS awards, at director level, were made to Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips in February 2014 and will vest in February 2017 based on EPS and net revenue growth performance conditions measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2016, as set out below.
Under the SMS Directors could invest up to their target bonus in shares which were, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions, matched at the end of a three-year period and dividend equivalents applied to any shares vesting.
Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting percentage percentage Performance target performance of award of award vesting KPI Adjusted EPS 5% 10% average annual growth 5.8% 12.5% 50% 18.5% KPI, 1 Net revenue growth 3% 7% average annual growth 1.6% 12.5% 50% 0% Achievement of SMS for 2016 18.5% 1.
The target range of 3 to 7% includes the discretionary increase made by the Committee in consideration of the one off impact of the acquisition of US assets.
64 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made to Alison Cooper, Oliver Tant and Matthew Phillips in November 2013 will vest in November 2016 based on performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below: Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting percentage percentage Performance target performance of award of award of award 2 TSR against comparator group Threshold at median of peer group 90% of 12.5% 50% 50% companies Pro rata between median and upper quartile exceeded Maximum above upper quartile KPI Adjusted EPS 5% 10% average annual growth 5.8% 6.25% 25% 9.3% KPI, 1 Net revenue growth 3% 7% average annual growth 1.6% 6.25% 25% 0% Achievement of LTIP for 2016 59.3% 1.
The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices.
Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared ex-dividend.
The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS and net revenue growth performance conditions for both the SMS and LTIP performance assessments.
Sharesave Plan We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term shareholders.
Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the day prior to invitation.
The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares.
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2016, Matthew Phillips had a Sharesave plan vesting 2015: Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips and details are included in the single total figure table on page 63.
Total Pension Entitlements Audited The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund, which is the principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK.
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are members of the pre-April 2002 section of the defined benefit section of the Fund.
Prior to 6 April 2006 they accrued a non-contributory pension at the rate of 1 47th of their pensionable salary limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although HMRC removed this cap from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not dis-apply it in respect of past pensionable service and maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For pensionable service from 6 April 2006 onwards Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips accrue an additional th pension at a rate of 1 60 of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
They pay member contributions at the rate of 5 per cent on their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
Both Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips receive a salary supplement of 12 per cent of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
Oliver Tant is also in receipt of a salary supplement equal to 12 per cent of his basic salary.
He is a member of the defined contribution section of the Fund.
In accordance with the Rules of the Fund he opted to limit his total contributions member and Company to a level which would not result in him incurring an Annual Allowance charge.
Consequently, any Company contributions that otherwise would have been paid to the Fund on his behalf have instead been paid to him as a salary supplement.
Oliver Tant registered for Fixed Protection 2016 and opted-out of contributory membership of the defined contribution section of the Fund with effect from 1 April 2016.
No pension contributions have been paid to the Fund by or in respect of him since this date.
Instead the Company has paid him an additional salary supplement of 14 per cent of his salary, increasing his total salary supplement from 1 April 2016 to 26 per cent.
The salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
com 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Matthew Phillips elected to use the Funds scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2011 12, 2012 13 and 2013 14 tax years.
His accrued pension was reduced by 11,565.78 a year including revaluation to offset these Annual Allowance charge payments.
This reduction to pension is reflected in the accrued pension figure as at 30 September 2016 it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as at 30 September 2016.
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year-end: the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations: the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any directors contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in accordance with the Regulations: and any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Extra information to be disclosed under 2013 Directors Remuneration Single figure numbers Regulations Payment in lieu of retirement Value x 20 benefits over year net Total Value x 20 Value x 20 Pensionable i. e. pension of directors pension Normal at start at end Accrued pension Age at service at supplement contributions benefits retirement of year of year 000 30 09 2016 30 09 2016 01 10 2015 30 9 2016 000 000 000 age 000 000 Alison Cooper 50 17 192 219 98 492 590 60 3,840 4,380 Matthew Phillips 45 16 98 118 40 394 434 60 1,960 2,360 1 Oliver Tant N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 1.
Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
He received a pension contribution into the defined contribution section of 30,000 made up of 5,055.72 Company contribution plus 24,944.28 in respect of a salary sacrifice by Mr Tant in lieu of his personal contribution.
In addition, a salary supplement of 77,868, representing 12 per cent of Mr Tants basic salary, was paid to him together with an additional supplement of 85,790 in lieu of Company pension contributions which were not made to the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in order to maintain Mr Tants total contributions within the Annual Allowance for pension savings.
He registered for Fixed Protection 2016 and as a result opted-out of contributory membership of the Fund and ceased pension contributions with effect from 1 April 2016.
Since this date Mr Tant has received an additional 14 per cent salary supplement in lieu of the Company contributions he would have received had he not registered for protection and opted out.
The 14 per cent salary supplement is included in the total of 85,790.
Statement of Change in Pay of Chief Executive Compared With Other Employees 1 Chief Executive All Employees to Percentage Percentage 30 September change change 2016 2016 vs 2015 2016 vs 2015 Salary 1,020,000 5.7 3.9 Benefits 16,635 0.9 4.5 Bonus 1,468,800 4.9 4.7 1.
Based on members of our Corporate Management Group.
This group has been chosen as it represents a good proxy for employees across the Group but is not overly influenced by local custom, hyperinflation in some jurisdictions etc.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividends.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2016 2015 change 1 Overall expenditure on pay 826 811 1.8 Dividend paid in the year 1,386 1,259 10.1 1.
Excludes employers social security costs.
66 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 66 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Share Interests and Incentives Audited All Executive Directors who served in the financial year currently meet the Companys shareholding policy by either holding shares in excess of their requirement or being within five years of appointment.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Shares held Conditional awards and options held Unvested and Unvested and Vested but subject to subject to Vested Shareholding Current Owned subject to performance continued but not required shareholding 1 2 outright holding period conditions employment exercised % salary % salary Requirement met Executive Directors 3 Alison Cooper 162,111 18,341 329,362 354 300 703 Yes In role for less Oliver Tant 829 7,958 133,927 441 300 54 than five years 4 Matthew Phillips 43,960 5,397 108,532 212 300 363 Yes Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 10,055 N A 5 Ken Burnett 2,772 N A Therese Esperdy N A David Haines 1,029 N A Michael Herlihy 5,307 N A 6 Steven Stanbrook 18,059 N A Karen Witts 471 N A Malcolm Wyman 3,951 N A 1.
Based on a share price of 39.735 being the closing price on 30 September 2016.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Brands PLC shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Under the proposed policy this is to be increased to 400 per cent.
During the year Matthew Phillips exercised 195 shares under the international sharesave plan at an option price of 18.40.
Steven Stanbrook holds his shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
There have been no changes to the above holdings since the year end.
Variable Award Grants Made During the Year Audited In line with our remuneration policy in force from 2014, no further awards to Executive Directors under the SMS will be made and the historic award levels have been consolidated into the Groups LTIP.
It is intended that LTIP awards will be made in February each year in order for any change in policy to be considered by shareholders immediately prior to grant.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number of nil Amount of End of performance Threshold Weighting 1 2, 3 cost options Face value base salary period vesting of award Performance condition Alison Cooper 100,464 3,570,000 350% 30 September 2018 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group Oliver Tant 45,652 1,622,250 250% 30 September 2018 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group Matthew Phillips 38,043 1,351,875 250% 30 September 2018 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 1.
Valued using the share price at the date of grant 15 February 2016 being 35.535 per share.
Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Key performance indicators used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on page 12. www.
com 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion is used for 50 per cent of the LTIP award.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the following vesting schedule.
1 Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 5% per annum nil 5% per annum 25% 5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 10% per annum or higher 100% 1.
The target range of 5 to 10% reflects the exceptional uplift to our normal range of 3 to 8% in consideration of the part-year impact of the acquisition of USA assets.
Performance Criterion Net Revenue Growth Element The net revenue growth criterion is used for 30 per cent of the LTIP award.
1 Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 6% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 6% per annum or higher 100% 1.
The target range of 3 to 6% reflects the exceptional uplift to our normal range of 1 to 4% in consideration of the part-year impact of the acquisition of USA assets.
Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and is applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP award.
The companies within the comparator group and the vesting schedule remain unchanged from the grant made in November 2013 detailed on page 65.
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Awards With No Performance Conditions Made During the Year Audited The deferred shares awarded during the year are set out below.
No Executive Directors were granted Sharesave options during the year.
Number of Portion of End of 1 deferred shares Face value net bonus deferral period Alison Cooper 11,594 405,058 50% 30 September 2018 Oliver Tant 7,569 264,437 50% 30 September 2018 Matthew Phillips 5,292 184,886 50% 30 September 2018 1.
Valued using the share price at the date of purchase 16 December 2015 being 34.93689 per share.
68 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS REMUNERATION DECISIONS TAKEN IN 2015 16 Salary The Committee sets base salaries having regard to individual performance, changes to the individuals role and market data for each position based on several comparator groups which reflect the Companys size, sector and global reach.
Consideration is given to the effect any amendment to an individuals base salary would have on their total remuneration package.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
An increase of 3 per cent, in line with other UK management, was awarded to Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips.
An above inflation increase has been awarded to Oliver Tant to reflect both his increased responsibilities in an expanded role incorporating Group Procurement and Group Information Systems, and the competitive CFO market.
There was no increase in Non-Executive Directors fees, with the exception of the Chairman whose fee was brought closer to market levels through an increase from 500,000 to 525,000, however, this will not be reviewed again for a period of two years.
Percentage Salary 2015 16 Salary 2016 17 Change Alison Cooper 1,020,000 1,051,000 3.0 Oliver Tant 649,000 700,000 7.9 Matthew Phillips 541,000 557,000 3.0 Annual Bonus Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance.
We, therefore, think it is appropriate to have a major element of Executive Directors remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Groups annual objectives and enhancing performance against key financial and non-financial targets.
The maximum bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors remains unchanged at 200 per cent.
Fifty per cent of net bonus paid will be in the form of the Groups shares deferred for a three-year period: the remaining 50 per cent will be paid in cash.
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below: Maximum Performance target of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 25% Cash conversion Commercially confidential 25% Market share Share growth in core markets 20% Revenue growth in Asset Brands Commercially confidential 15% Individual objectives Commercially confidential 15% These targets have been reweighted to reflect the Groups revised strategic focus for the year, with an increased weighting on market share and top line growth and a slightly reduced focus on EPS.
At this point, the above performance targets are considered commercially confidential but, to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further details will be provided retrospectively in the 2017 Annual Report.
The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always be confidential but will review this on a year-by-year basis.
Share Plan Awards Under the revised remuneration policy an increase in LTIP opportunity is proposed in order to ensure that the management team has the opportunity to earn comparative rewards for delivery of strong performance.
This increase, equivalent to 100 per cent of salary, reduces the current gap in total remuneration opportunity between Imperial Brands and its peers.
Revised Former maximum maximum opportunity opportunity percentage percentage of salary of salary Alison Cooper 450 350 Oliver Tant 350 250 Matthew Phillips 350 250 www.
com 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED February 2017 LTIP grant Following feedback received during the consultation with shareholders the Committee has made changes to the structure of the 2017 LTIP.
These are: an increase to the maximum target relating to EPS growth, moving from a range of 3 to 8 per cent growth to a new range of 3 to 9 per cent: and introduction of a cash conversion measure with a weighting of 20 per cent replacing part of the weighting on EPS.
A number of our investors indicated they regard Return on Invested Capital ROIC as a good measure of our performance.
Whilst a ROIC measure has not been introduced, the Committee pays close attention to the level of return delivered and will take ROIC into account in confirming future vesting.
Weighting Performance criteria in LTIP Adjusted EPS growth 30% Net revenue growth 30% TSR 20% Cash conversion 20% When setting the performance criteria the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and analysts forecasts.
Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion is used for 30 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proposed vesting schedule is: Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 9% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 9% per annum or higher 100% Performance Criterion Net Revenue Growth Element This criterion will be used for 30 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 1% per annum nil 1% per annum 25% 1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 4% per annum or higher 100% Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including 40 companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP.
The companies within the comparator group remain unchanged, as detailed on page 65.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Relative TSR performance Shares vesting as percentage of element Below median of peer group nil At median of peer group 25% Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% pro rata Above upper quartile 100% Performance Criterion Cash Conversion Element This criterion is used for 20 per cent of the LTIP awards.
The proposed vesting schedule: Average annual cash conversion Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 85% per annum nil 85% per annum 25% 85% to 92% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 92% per annum or higher 100% Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
70 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM At the 2016 AGM we received a strong vote in favour of our remuneration report, with a small number of shareholders commenting on various aspects of our remuneration.
We have sought to discuss these in more detail as part of the recent consultation with shareholders and where appropriate addressed their concerns within the proposed remuneration policy.
We also received a strong vote in favour of our remuneration policy at our 2015 AGM although a small number of shareholders expressed concern in respect of various aspects including the expectation that incentive targets should be adjusted for our USA acquisition.
These were addressed by the Committee using its discretion to increase in-flight LTIP targets.
Votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Percentage cast excluding cast including Resolution votes Percentage for Votes against against votes withheld Votes withheld votes withheld Directors Remuneration Report 2016 AGM 693,449,508 94.8 38,042,663 5.2 731,492,171 14,414,282 745,906,453 Directors Remuneration Policy 2015 AGM 704,892,593 93.6 48,447,661 6.4 753,340,254 9,328,030 762,668,284 Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
Advice Provided to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS is retained, having been appointed following a tendering process, by the Committee as its principal, and only material, external advisor.
NBS advises on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviews our structures against corporate governance best practice.
NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new developments and evolving best practice.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
NBS parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group.
Having reviewed the structures in place to ensure the independence of NBS advice to the Committee, it is satisfied that the other work provided by the wider Aon group does not impact on NBS independence.
During the year NBS was paid time based fees of 145,000.
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return TSR calculations and provided advice on all TSR related matters.
During the year it was paid a fixed fee of 19,500.
Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group: Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required.
It was not used for remuneration-related advice during the financial year.
Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group: Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Groups employee share plans:  LLP PwC, our auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS and net revenue calculations used in relation to our employee share plans performance criteria.
During the financial year PwC was paid a fixed fee of 1,850 in respect of services to the Committee: and Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our remuneration policy for executives.
During the year it was paid time based fees of 62,000 for these services.
Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group.
All of these advisors were appointed by the Committee which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way compromises their independence.
They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee.
The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward and Capability Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and on our employee share plans.
Their attendance ensured the Committee was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and our most senior executives.
com 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2016, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 39.735 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 33.23 to 41.54.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered office.
Award Dates Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
Review of Past Performance The chart below shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2016.
Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement.
Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement.
Operating Executive excluding Executive Directors 000 2016 2015 Base salary 2,402 2,221 Benefits 257 189 Pension salary supplement 263 261 Bonus 2,798 2,572 1 LTIP annual vesting 1,838 402 1 SMS annual vesting 266 nil 7,824 5,645 1.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was 20,959,617 2015: 14,526,087.
72 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 1 KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 AUDITED 000 2016 2015 Short-term employee benefits 12,340 11,681 Post-employment benefits 1,313 1,182 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share-based payment in accordance with IAS 24 3,598 2,722 17,251 15,585 1.
Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary.
Employee Benefit Trusts Our policy remains to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Benefit Trusts.
As at 30 September 2016, we held 77,289,137 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under award at Surplus 01 10 2015 during year during year 30 09 2016 30 09 2016 shortfall Executive Trust 675,463 0 37,647 637,816 604,485 33,331 2001 Trust 2,489,892 1,620,000 1,258,243 2,851,649 3,833,972 982,323 Share Plan Flow Rates The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans.
Currently, an aggregate total of 0.4 per cent of the Companys issued share capital including shares held in treasury is subject to options and awards under the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
Summary of Options and Awards Granted Cumulative options and awards granted Options and awards granted during the year as a percentage of issued share capital as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards including those held in treasury including those held in treasury 10% in 10 years 1.8 0.1 5% in 5 years 0.8 0.1 5% in 10 years executive plans 1.3 0.1 For the Board David Haines Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 November 2016 www.
com 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES CONTENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Brands PLC 75 of Imperial Brands PLC 120 Consolidated Income Statement 80 Imperial Brands PLC Balance Sheet 122 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 81 Imperial Brands PLC Statement of changes in equity 122 Consolidated Balance Sheet 82 Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Brands PLC 123 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 83 Related Undertakings 126 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 84 Shareholder Information 134 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting Policies 85 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 89 3 Segment Information 90 4 Profit Before Tax 92 5 Restructuring Costs 92 6 Directors and Employees 92 7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to Adjusted Net Finance Costs 93 8 Taxation 93 9 Dividends 95 10 Earnings Per Share 95 11 Intangible Assets 96 12 Property, Plant and Equipment 99 13 Joint Ventures 100 14 Inventories 101 15 Trade and Other Receivables 101 16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 101 17 Trade and Other Payables 101 18 Borrowings 102 19 Financial Risk Factors 103 20 Derivative Financial Instruments 107 21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 109 22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 110 23 Provisions 114 24 Share Capital 114 25 Share Schemes 114 26 Treasury Shares 117 27 Commitments 118 28 Legal Proceedings 118 29 Acquisitions 118 30 Net Debt 118 31 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 119 32 Changes in Non-Controlling Interests 119 33 Related Undertakings 119 74 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
