STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 79 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT THIS REPORT IS SEPARATED INTO THE 2016 SNAPSHOT FOLLOWING SECTIONS TO AID REVIEW: SINGLE FIGURE Chief Executive Officer 80 Annual Statement from Committee Chairman 2016 2,230k 2015 2,597k 82 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy 84 Payments from existing variable pay awards Chief Financial Officer 84 Performance measurement selection 2016 1,723k 84 Remuneration policy for other employees 2015 1,734k 84 Shareholding guidelines 85 Pay scenario charts for the CEO and CFO SALARY 85 Approach to recruitment remuneration 2% increase for CEO and CFO, effective from 1 January 2017 deferred from 86 Executive Director service contracts and exit payment policy 1 July 2016 88 Non-Executive Directors Group average of 2.2% increase 89 External appointments 89 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company ANNUAL BONUS 89 Consideration of shareholder views Measures and outcome Revenue between threshold and target 89 Annual Report on Remuneration EBITDA between target and stretch 89 Remuneration Committee membership in 2016 Personal objectives 90% for both CEO and CFO 90 Advisers Bonus outcome 90 Summary of shareholder voting at the 2016 AGM 0% of salary 125% of salary 90 Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors audited CEO 88.3% 91 Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2016 audited CFO 88.3% 93 Additional disclosure of 2015 performance targets audited The Executive Directors volunteered a reduction of 3% of target bonus to enhance the staff bonus pool.
93 Scheme interests awarded in 2016 audited 95 Pension audited SHARE PLANS 95 Single figure of total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited 2016 BSA: 100% of allocated shares granted 95 Exit payments made in the year audited 2014 PSP: 48% vesting 95 Payments to past Directors audited 95 External appointments for Executive Directors SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 96 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 Full year dividend: 53.96 cents USD up 5% from 2015 97 Non-Executive Director fees Total Shareholder Return 98 Total shareholder return 400 98 CEO eight-year remuneration history audited 300 99 Percentage change in CEO remuneration 200 99 Relative importance of spend on pay 100 100 Directors shareholding audited 0 Dec 08 Dec 16 101 Directors interests in shares in Inmarsat long-term incentive plans and Inmarsat FTSE 350 xIT all-employee plans audited 102 Inmarsat Bonus Share Awards audited 102 Inmarsat Performance Share Awards audited 2017 SNAPSHOT 102 Inmarsat Sharesave Scheme 2016 Award audited No changes in share plan allocation to be made vs 2016: award of salary: 185% for CEO and 175% for CFO final vesting may be lower but not higher than these percentages of salary two-year hold on PSA awards from March 2017 Award bonus potential remains maximum of salary of 125% for CEO and CFO Annual Report on Remuneration Directors' Remuneration Policy See pages 89 to 102 See pages 82 to 89 80 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DEAR SHAREHOLDER ANNUAL STATEMENT On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE FORWARD-LOOKING REMUNERATION POLICY CHAIRMAN, SIMON BAX This year we will be asking shareholders to approve a new Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Although the existing Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, our executive remuneration programme has in fact remained broadly consistent since we became a public company in 2005, in terms of both structure comprising three incentive plans: the annual cash bonus, Bonus Share Awards and Performance Share Awards and quantum.
In preparation for the 2017 AGM, the Remuneration Committee spent considerable time during 2016 reviewing the Policy and considering alternative remuneration structures.
We believe, on the whole, the existing Simon Bax Chairman, Policy has provided us with an appropriate set of incentive arrangements Remuneration Committee to motivate and reward senior executives.
The phasing of how shares are delivered through our share plans and significant shareholding requirement have provided strong medium-term shareholder alignment, and the specific performance measures selected have supported the delivery of our strategy.
Our new Policy will continue with our current remuneration structure of competitive levels of annual pay and low pension contributions.
We are aware of a number of recent developments in the external environment, and in particular the encouragement from some shareholders to consider alternative incentive structures and the broader desire for simplification.
As shareholders are further developing their thinking in this area, the Committees intention is to continue our review of remuneration until a more definitive direction emerges from the ongoing debate.
Therefore, we will be putting forward for approval by shareholders a Policy, as set out in this Report, which remains largely unchanged from the 2014 Policy, with the exception of an extension to our long-term share plan, the PSA, time horizon for the Executive Directors.
In this regard, the Committee has considered best practice and is introducing a two-year holding period for vested PSA shares in response to the general preference for longer holding periods.
The performance and vesting period remain three years, in line with prevailing market practice.
The extended holding period for the PSA shares, coupled with our current shareholding guideline of five times base salary, result in overall remuneration packages that we believe are aligned with the long-term delivery of shareholder value.
Subject to shareholder approval, the proposed Remuneration Policy will take effect from the date of the AGM, being 4 May 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 81 REMUNERATION DECISIONS IN 2016 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2017 During 2016 we have continued the delivery of our strategic objectives which saw the start of a step up of Global Xpress revenues following the For 2017, the maximum annual cash bonus opportunity will remain 125% of introduction of global service of our new Ka-band satellite constellation at salary.
The financial element of the annual bonus representing 70% of the the end of 2015.
We have also seen positive progress for our aviation business total bonus will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA and revenue.
with the European Aviation Network initiative and the planned aviation The element on individual performance and contribution will not be weighted Ka-band service, with the announcement of multiple airline commitments.
more than 30% of the total bonus, as now.
Our maritime and particularly US Government businesses have made good For 2017, BSA opportunities will remain 185% and 175% of salary for the progress with customer take-up for the Global Xpress services.
We have also CEO and the CFO, respectively.
The plan will operate on a similar basis to delivered good financial results, with an increase in dividend levels.
2016: performance will relate to achievement of EBITDA 67% of total award In July 2016, the Company made the decision that due to business and revenue 33% targets.
No changes are proposed to award levels or circumstances at the time, the annual salary review would be deferred for performance measurement for the PSA for 2017.
The CEO and the CFO will the Executive Directors and Executive Management Board members to receive awards of 185% and 175% of salary, respectively.
In December 2016, the Committee approved a salary increase to be based on relative TSR 30% of total award, EBITDA 30% and the of 2% for both Executive Directors, effective from 1 January 2017.
This delivery of specific strategic objectives considered key drivers to our future compares with an average salary increase of 2.2% across the Group.
As mentioned earlier, we are introducing a two-year holding period to vested PSA shares for Executive Directors to align with best practice.
For 2016, the CEO and the CFO are both entitled to bonuses of 88.3% of salary.
No shares may be sold during the holding period except to cover taxes.
This The Executive Directors volunteered a reduction of 3% of target bonus to their will become effective with the 2017 PSA award.
bonuses in order to enhance the staff bonus pool to support retention and engagement.
The bonuses reflect both the good financial performance of Further detail on the implementation of Policy for 2017 is included on page 96. the Company, particularly in the second half of the financial year, and the Resolutions to approve the proposed Remuneration Policy subject to a exceptional individual contributions made by each of the Executive Directors binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration subject to an advisory over the last year.
A summary of performance against targets is included on vote will be put to our shareholders at the AGM in May.
As always, I am available to meet and discuss our Remuneration Policy In March 2016, the CEO and the CFO were granted Performance Share Awards with shareholders.
PSA of 185% and 175% of salary, respectively.
Vesting will be based on performance over the three financial years to 31 December 2018.
Consistent SIMON BAX with our approach for 2015 awards, 2016 awards will vest to the extent that Chairman, Remuneration Committee challenging EBITDA, relative TSR and specific strategic targets are achieved over the period.
8 March 2017 Based on performance to 31 December 2016, 48% of the share award made under the 2014 PSP will vest in March 2017.
In respect of the TSR element, performance is measured vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts: 30% vesting for this element 15% of total award reflects the difficult market challenges faced by satellite companies generally shown by the rerating of the satellite sector by some analysts.
The EBITDA target was partially achieved, vesting at 66% for the element 33% of total award : this reflects the contribution of events mentioned in last years report because they fall over a period greater than one year.
Revenues were impacted because of US Government sequestration and its impact on our government business for the first year of the performance period, and delays outside our control impacting the timing of our Global Xpress satellites from their original launch dates which meant revenues from our new high-speed data services were lower than expected in 2015 and 2016.
82 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY As required by legislation, the Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote and, subject to shareholder approval, will become effective from the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement, the proposed Policy is broadly consistent with the approved 2014 Policy, save the introduction of a mandatory two-year holding period on vested PSA shares effective from the 2017 award to reflect emerging best practice.
The Groups Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest appropriate quality, linking rewards to the achievement of financial and strategic goals of the Group.
When determining Remuneration Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem necessary, including the Groups overall business strategy, business performance in the current year and expectations for future years as incorporated into our Long Range Business Plan LRBP, pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation.
Where appropriate, we will consult with shareholders in advance of major changes in the Remuneration Policy or where we consider there are material changes to individual remuneration arrangements.
The Committee is committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise them to achieve the Companys objectives which will create value for shareholders.
How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance BASIC SALARY Paying market-competitive base Salaries are reviewed annually with Salary increases will be applied in line Based on Company performance and salaries, commensurate with the any increase generally made in July with the outcome of an annual salary individual contribution.
individuals role, responsibilities and or following a material change in review.
experience, allows us to recruit and responsibilities.
The Committee will The maximum annual salary increase retain Executive Directors of the calibre determine any increases to be made.
will normally be in line with the average required to implement our strategy.
Any increase is determined by a formal increase applied to the UK workforce.
appraisal by the Committee, taking However, larger increases may be into account market pay levels, a review awarded in certain circumstances of salaries against companies of similar including, but not limited to, an increase size, complexity and type, Group in scope or responsibility of the role: to performance, as well as the remuneration apply salary progression for a newly arrangements operated throughout appointed Director: where the Directors the Group, with reference to UK-based salary has fallen behind market employees in particular for pay positioning.
Where increases are comparison levels.
awarded in excess of that for the UK employee population, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
BENEFITS IN KIND We provide cost-effective benefits Provision of death, long-term sickness The benefits provided may vary Not applicable.
which support the wellbeing of and medical and dental insurance by role and levels of cover provided employees.
cover which can include spouse and will reflect market practice and the dependents cover.
Life assurance of individual circumstances of the 4x salary, paid holiday and medical Executive Directors.
It is not anticipated that the current If required, the Company would provide cost of benefits as set out in the access to independent financial and Annual Report on Remuneration legal advice on a case-by-case basis.
would increase materially over the period for which this Policy will apply.
Provision of other reasonable benefits in the event of relocation, eg temporary The Committee retains the discretion accommodation and other related costs to approve a higher cost in exceptional will be considered on a case-by-case circumstances eg relocation or in basis.
circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed These benefits are non-pensionable.
PENSION We provide defined contribution pension The Executive Directors are eligible to Maximum employer contributions are Not applicable.
arrangements, or cash in lieu of pension.
participate in the Companys defined currently 12.5% of the capped salary contribution pension plan arrangements under the terms of the UK pension plan.
or other similar pension plans as The Committee may review pension appropriate to the Executive Directors contribution levels in the future.
The Company increase in contributions would not also operates an auto-enrolment result in a pension contribution in excess pension scheme which an Executive of 20% of the uncapped basic salary.
Director could participate in instead of the main pension plan.
Contributions are based on a percentage of salary which is currently limited to a pensions cap.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 83 How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance ANNUAL CASH BONUS We provide an annual bonus to Bonus payment levels are determined by Maximum opportunity: Bonus is based on achievement incentivise the achievement of annual the Committee annually by reference to of annual financial and personal 125% of salary.
financial and operational goals in line performance against targets set at the objectives.
Threshold and Target opportunity: with Group strategy.
start of the financial year.
Personal The personal element will not be 0% and 75% of salary respectively.
objectives are set annually by the Performance metrics are selected to weighted more than 30% of the total Committee.
support the annual business strategy in any year.
which we believe also lead to In exceptional circumstances, the Details of the measures and weightings enhancement of shareholder value.
Committee has the ability to exercise applicable for the financial year under discretion to override the formulaic review are provided in the Annual bonus outcome within the limits of the Report on Remuneration.
scheme where it believes the outcome The Committee may change the is not truly reflective of performance, measures used if other measures are and to reflect the actual delivery of deemed more suitable to allow delivery value to shareholders.
Any discretionary of the Companys strategy.
adjustments will be detailed in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to claw back bonuses in certain exceptional circumstances which may include but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the financial results of the Group.
BONUS SHARE AWARD BSA We provide the opportunity to We make annual allocations of Maximum opportunity for all Executive The Committee sets annual participate in the BSA as it links the conditional shares which are Directors is up to 200% of salary 300% performance measures currently delivery of short-term financial and confirmed the following year, subject in exceptional circumstances, as based on the same financial objectives operational performance to sustained to achievement of agreed annual permitted in the Executive Share Plan as for the annual cash bonus plan and shareholder value creation.
may change these for future awards as shares vest over the subsequent it considers appropriate.
Participation in the BSA reinforces Threshold performance results in 60% three years, subject to continued continued delivery of the LRBP as conversion of the monetary award into employment.
vesting of shares occurs over three shares.
years after performance has been Additional shares in lieu of accrued tested.
dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
Unvested awards and vested awards that have not yet been transferred to the Executive Director are subject to adjustment for malus and clawback, ie forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
Such circumstances may include but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the previously reported financial results of the Group.
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD PSA We believe the PSA aligns executives We make annual awards of conditional Maximum opportunity for all Executive The performance measures and interests with long-term shareholder shares, which vest after a minimum of Directors is up to 200% of salary respective weightings may vary value creation through rewarding the three years subject to performance over 300% in exceptional circumstances, year-on-year to reflect strategic delivery of a mix of financial and a three-year period.
as permitted in the Executive Share priorities, and will include a financial strategic measures.
Strategic measures, if A mandatory two-year holding period included, will not be weighted more The performance measures in the PSA applies to vested awards commencing Threshold performance will result in the than 40% of the total award in any year.
reflect the value drivers in the LRBP.
with the award to be made in 2017. vesting of 30% 0% 0% of the maximum award under the TSR EBITDA strategic Details of the measures and weightings Additional shares in lieu of accrued performance elements which are the applicable for the financial year under dividends over the vesting period are current performance measures being review are provided in the Annual awarded only on the number of shares used.
weightings and performance targets Unvested awards are subject to will be retrospectively explained to adjustment for malus and clawback, shareholders.
ie forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
84 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS To encourage share ownership across We operate employee share savings Participation levels set by HMRC or Not applicable.
all employees as allowed by HMRC and plans for our global workforce where, relevant local laws from time to time.
depending on location, savings periods of between two and three years operate.
We will look at opportunities to offer other employee share plans in the future.
PAYMENTS FROM EXISTING VARIABLE PAY AWARDS Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval of the 2017 Remuneration Policy, eg awards made under the 2014 Policy.
Any commitment made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force at the time the commitment was made will be honoured, even when it is not consistent with the Policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
Details of any such outstanding share awards to Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SELECTION Our incentive plans excluding restricted share awards and all-employee share plans all include financial performance requirements.
Performance targets are set to be stretching, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups LRBP, the market in which the Company operates, the expected performance of competitors in these same markets, broker forecasts and latest internal forecasts.
Achievement of these targets delivers to shareholders the value inherent in the LRBP.
The annual cash bonus plan and BSA reflect the financial targets which the Board believes are key to driving the business.
Revenue and EBITDA reflect the underlying financial success of the business and support the annual business strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsats shareholders.
The PSA currently has three performance requirements, which are EBITDA growth, the Companys total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, and strategic objectives.
All three performance metrics are linked to our long-term business strategy, and support shareholder value creation.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust and or set different performance measures following a corporate event such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a significant change in prevailing market conditions either specific to the Companys sector or macroeconomic events which causes the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined on the same principle as for remunerating Executive Directors, in that reward should support our business strategy.
It should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing individuals.
As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements that are appropriate to apply but, overall, this principle applies across the different geographies in which we operate.
Employees receive variable pay which gives them incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation and is reflective of how we deal with Executive Directors too.
In general, the remuneration policy and principles which apply to other senior executives is consistent with that set out in this report for Executive Directors.
All employees participate in bonus schemes.
Group senior executives are eligible to participate in the BSA and some also participate in the PSA.
The BSA may operate with division-specific targets for some participants and the PSA may have slightly different performance measures in place than those used for the Executive Directors, as appropriate.
All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans which are generally the UK Sharesave Scheme or an equivalent international plan.
Participation is on generally the same terms subject to local regulations.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold Company shares equivalent to five times base salary.
For the purpose of this guideline, shares owned includes beneficially owned shares and shares that are unvested and subject to continued employment only, under the BSA and PSA plans.
For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to build up a shareholding to the five times guideline over a period of time, generally within five to seven years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 85 PAY SCENARIO CHARTS FOR THE CEO AND CFO The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the two current Executive Directors CEO and CFO, and the potential split between the different elements of pay under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target, and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Inmarsats current incentive opportunities, applied to salaries as at 1 January 2017.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movement.
Each element of remuneration reflects the following assumptions: Minimum: includes fixed remuneration only, ie base salary, taxable benefits and pension.
Target: includes fixed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target performance under the annual cash bonus plan 60% of maximum and BSA 60% of maximum opportunities of 185% and 175% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively, and threshold performance under the PSA 30% 0% 0% of maximum under the TSR EBITDA strategic performance elements, based on maximum opportunities of 185% and 175% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively.
Maximum: includes fixed remuneration and maximum payment under all incentive plans.
PAY SCENARIOS 000 Chief Executive Officer Maximum 17% 21% 62% 3,458 On-target 34% 24% 42% 1,771 Minimum 100% 602 Chief Financial Officer Maximum 18% 22% 60% 2,741 On-target 35% 25% 40% 1,421 Minimum 100% 496 Fixed pay Annual bonus Share Plans BSA and PSA APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to external market data, current remuneration, the type of remuneration arrangements for other Inmarsat executives and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from and may be based in to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Policy in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the Committee as appropriate to offer.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted for example, cash or shares, the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
The Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as Bonus Share Awards, Performance Share Awards or Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
The Committee may also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules Chapter 9.4.
2 regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
86 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Component Approach Maximum annual value Basic salary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pension and benefits To be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, and as well as any expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Directors relocation on appointment.
Sharesave Scheme To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees.
Annual cash bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees.
The Committee 125% of salary will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the executive on joining the Company will receive the full annual payment or a pro-rata amount.
Bonus Share Awards To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, Up to 200% of salary 300% in as described in the policy table.
exceptional circumstances The Committee will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the executive on joining the Company will receive the full annual allocation or a pro-rata amount.
Performance Share Awards To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, Up to 200% of salary 300% in as described in the policy table.
exceptional circumstances The Committee will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the executive on joining the Company will receive the full annual award or a pro-rata amount.
Restricted Share Awards To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule agreed by the Up to 200% of salary 300% in Committee, subject to continued employment only.
Awards will typically be made to exceptional circumstances facilitate the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting schedule will typically match that of the awards forfeited.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of remuneration and benefits.
Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period of several years, subject to the executives development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Director Date of service contract Term of office Notice period Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indefinite until termination by either party Twelve months written notice by Company or Director Tony Bates 21 February 2014 Indefinite until termination by either party Twelve months written notice by Company and six months written notice by the Director The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing Director.
All Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to be made.
For the Executive Directors, the Company may make such payments monthly up to 12 months and these payments shall be reduced if the executive finds alternative employment.
Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years base salary plus other benefits, which may include annual bonus subject to performance conditions being fulfilled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date, unless the Committee believes this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves.
The rationale for any discretion exercised will be provided in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 87 Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Annual bonus Good leaver see below for definition Normal payment date.
Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year.
All other reasons Awards lapse.
BSA Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any allocated but not yet granted shares will be granted at the Committees Committee has discretion to accelerate.
The treatment of unvested shares is at the Committees discretion.
PSA During the vesting period: Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and subject to Committee has discretion to accelerate.
During the post-vesting holding period: All leavers Not applicable.
Not applicable awards, once vested including those in any holding period, are treated as owned by the individual and are subject to clawback provisions.
RSA Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time.
Committee has discretion to accelerate.
Employee Share Plans Good leaver see below for definition Share options can be exercised for a The individual will be entitled to exercise his share options in accordance certain period of time after departure.
with HMRC approved rules or local equivalent rules.
A good leaver is the departure of an Executive Director for reasons of ill health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
Termination for cause is regarded as a bad leaver and no awards shall vest.
Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards may be transferred to participants in accordance with the Executive Share Plan Rules, based on the extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met.
For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time and paid immediately.
The final treatment for the annual bonus remains subject to the Committees discretion.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of the Executive Director where it is in the service agreement to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Executive Directors termination package, including without limitation compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for him executing a settlement agreement, payment of the departing Executive Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy arrangement or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
88 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director NED, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of them and set out details of their fees base fee and Committee membership fee.
Fees will be the same level as for other NEDs, except where the Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum NED fees To attract and retain The NEDs are paid a basic fee.
To avoid setting expectations, high-calibre NEDs there is no maximum fee level.
The Committee Chairmen and other members of the Board by offering a market Committees Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Telecoms The maximum annual aggregate competitive fee level Regulatory Committees and the Senior Independent Director are fee for all Group NEDs is paid supplements to reflect their additional responsibilities.
1,000,000, as set out in the Companys Articles of The Chairman of the Board will be paid a single fee for all his Association.
responsibilities, and receive healthcare cover.
NED fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed by the Committee taking into account fee levels at the same set of companies, and is then approved by the Board.
If any changes are to be made, they are usually effective in July.
Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, NEDs may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
The UK Corporate Governance Code has special provisions regarding determination of the independence of Directors when they have served for more than nine years.
Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and their appointment will normally terminate on: A Director choosing to resign voluntarily A Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness If the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of the appointment A Director is found guilty of misconduct or A Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at an AGM Dates of NED appointment letters are as follows: Name Date of appointment letter Date of appointment Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013 Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 1 Stephen Davidson 16 June 2005 22 June 2005 2 Kathleen Flaherty 9 May 2006 9 May 2006 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009 Dr Abe Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013 Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015 Andrew Sukawaty 16 September 2014 1 January 2015 Dr Hamadoun Tour 16 December 2014 1 March 2015 Phillipa McCrostie 18 May 2016 1 September 2016 1 Mr Davidson retired from the Board with effect from 19 January 2017 2 Mrs Flaherty retired from the Board with effect from 2 March 2017 Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive plans.
They receive no benefits, except that healthcare cover is provided for the Chairman, as a continuation of the cover provided to him previously.
The Company reimburses the reasonable expenses the Non-Executive Directors incur in carrying out their duties as Directors.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 89 EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the Board of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external Board appointments.
Directors accepting such positions shall take into account any guidelines for external directorships as contained in the Corporate Governance Code, subject at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the Chairman.
NEDs taking additional board positions are asked to speak to the Chairman in advance to ensure no conflict of interest and for the Chairman to speak to the SID for anything affecting him..
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
This relates to our philosophy around levels of base salary, operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement and provision of benefits also being available across the Group.
The Group consults with its employees on general employment policies in a range of ways, including formal consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line managers or to the HR team or to a confidential email address which will receive queries on all issues including anti-bribery.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder views and the guidelines of investor bodies.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary engage proactively with major shareholders and shareholder representatives whenever appropriate.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on its Remuneration Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to consulting shareholders in advance of major changes.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years Annual Report on Remuneration are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Report.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The following section provides details of how Inmarsats 2014 Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and how the Committee intends to implement the proposed Policy in 2017.
The Regulations require our external auditors to report to shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The external auditors opinion is set out on pages 105 to 111 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2016 The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
We had four scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities.
Committee membership and attendance are set out in the table below: Committee members Attendance Simon Bax Committee Chairman 4 4 1 Stephen Davidson 4 4 Sir Bryan Carsberg 4 4 1 Kathleen Flaherty 4 4 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 4 4 1 Mr Davidson and Mrs Flaherty retired as Non-Executive Directors on 19 January and 2 March 2017, respectively During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which ensured that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year.
Its key activities included: Review and approval of the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report and preparation of the 2016 Report Preparation for the 2016 AGM Review of key shareholder themes, feedback and voting Review of Executive Director total remuneration Review and approval of incentive outcomes for the prior year Approval of opportunities award levels and performance targets for the 2016 annual cash bonus, BSA and PSA awards Review of incentive plans across the Group and Considerable discussions and review of the structure of the 2017 Remuneration Policy, principally involving the Committee Chairman 90 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ADVISERS During 2016, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew Sukawaty Chairman, Rupert Pearce CEO, Tony Bates CFO, Alison Horrocks Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary, Debbie Jones and Natasha Dillon Chief People Officer and Matt Smith Head of Reward.
Dr Abe Peled, the Senior Independent Director, also attended meetings.
No member of management is present at a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
Kepler a brand of Mercer was appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a tendering process, and has continued to act as the Committees independent external adviser during the year.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Kepler provides no  services to the Company and is therefore considered independent.
Keplers parent, Mercer, provides unrelated services to the Company in the areas of pension investment advice and actuarial services to the Trustee to the Inmarsat UK Pension Plan.
During 2016, Keplers fees were based on time and materials, and fees in relation to advice to the Committee excluding VAT and expenses totalled 84,250 2015: 51,150.
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2016 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration of the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM: Total number % of of votes votes cast For including discretionary 331,942,708 93.08% Against 24,663,159 6.92% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 356,605,867 100% Votes withheld 6,010,344 n a The results of shareholder voting on the 2017 Remuneration Policy will be disclosed in next years report.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate their understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into our executive Remuneration Policy.
SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the prior year: Rupert Pearce Tony Bates 000 000 2016 2015 2016 2015 Basic salary 566 542 464 457 1 Taxable benefits 9 9 7 6 2 Pension 16 16 16 16 3 Annual cash bonus 487 491 399 471 4 Bonus Share Award 815 1,033 632 784 5 Performance Share Award 337 506 205 Total 2,230 2,597 1,723 1,734 1 Taxable benefits: include healthcare, disability and life insurance benefits and benefits relating to staff entertaining.
The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment benefit is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable 2 Pension: payment made by the Company as cash in lieu of pension see page 95 for details 3 Annual cash bonus: cash bonus payments in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 see pages 91 and 93 for details.
For 2016, the Executive Directors volunteered a reduction to their bonus, and the figures are shown on a post-reduction basis 4 BSA: values the BSA shares in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Performance is tested prior to grant for BSA shares.
For 2015, the value is based on the spot share price on the grant date being 22 March 2016 of 9.30.
The award value has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on grant.
For 2016, as the share price on the grant date expected to be on around 9 March 2017 is currently unknown, the award is valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 7.24 5 PSA: the value at vesting of awards vesting on performance over the three-year periods ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
For 2015, the 2013 PSP is valued based on the spot share price on the vesting date of 9.17.
The award value has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on vesting plus reinvested dividends on vested shares.
For 2016, as the share price on the vesting date is currently unknown, the 2014 PSP is valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 7.24 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 91 INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 AUDITED ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2016 PERFORMANCE In 2016, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group financial targets and individual performance objectives.
Financial performance was measured by reference to revenue 33% and EBITDA targets 67%.
Revenue and EBITDA are two measures which have strong line-of-sight, are easily understood and are two of our key reporting metrics to shareholders.
The same performance metrics are used in the annual bonus plan for all employees.
The Committee has the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
In line with the previous approach, the Committee will disclose the 2016 financial targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
We believe the targets used are commercially sensitive if made public in the same reporting period to which they apply.
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2016 are noted below.
Some have been excluded where we believe they may be commercially sensitive if published.
CEO: Ensure the successful build-up of Global Xpress revenues including roll-out of Fleet Xpress installations Position the aviation business unit to manage diverse requirements of preparation for the European Aviation Network, the work on delivering Global Xpress programme for in-flight connectivity for aviation users and next generation aviation safety services Manage the Companys position with Ligado previously called LightSquared Seek to have in place agreements with leading maritime distributors to support the use of Fleet Xpress services Implement changes in the organisation to provide more streamlined operations CFO: Put in place a new strategic pricing framework and operational structure within the Company and with partners Improve working capital arrangements Improve the procurement procedures to improve contract terms and manage costs more effectively Improve the operations of key financial systems through dedicated billing and SEP projects In 2016, revenues excluding Ligado were $1,210m, which exceeded threshold performance but was below target performance.
EBITDA excluding Ligado was $675m, which exceeded target performance but was below stretch performance.
Therefore, the bonus payout in respect of financial performance is 44% out of a maximum of 70% of total bonus.
The Committee also considered the Executive Directors achievement of personal objectives during the year, and payout in respect of personal performance was 27% out of a maximum of 30% of total bonus for the CEO and the CFO.
The Executive Directors volunteered a reduction of 3% of target bonus to their bonuses in order to enhance the staff bonus pool to support retention and engagement.
The maximum and target annual cash bonus amounts that could be made and actual bonus which will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out in the next table.
Actual post-reduction Formulaic bonus bonus outcome outcome for 2016 for 2016 financial Target bonus Maximum bonus financial year year Executive Director % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 88.3% 86.1% Tony Bates 75% 125% 88.3% 86.1% 92 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BSA IN RESPECT OF 2016 PERFORMANCE An allocation of shares was made on 23 March 2016 at a share price of 9.30 in respect of the March 2016 BSA.
The confirmation of these awards is based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
60% of the 2016 award was linked to EBITDA, 30% to revenue, and 10% to a new non-financial measure linked to the management of a strategic contract.
Actual performance relative to the targets was as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Actual performance against target EBITDA 60% EBITDA was $675m excluding Ligado, which exceeded target performance Revenue 30% Revenues were $1,210m excluding Ligado, which exceeded threshold but were below target performance Non-financial measure linked to the 10% Renegotiation and management of this strategic contract were successful and management of a strategic contract judged by the Committee to have met the performance condition in full Under the BSA, the maximum number of shares is awarded for target performance and does not increase for outperformance.
As a result, 100% of shares originally allocated in March 2016 will be awarded in March 2017, and will vest in equal tranches in March 2018, 2019 and 2020.
As per our approach for the annual cash bonus and for the same reasons, the Committee will disclose the 2016 BSA targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The table below shows the confirmation of the number of shares awarded for the 2016 BSA.
Conversion rate based on performance for Confirmed Allocation Number of shares year ended number of shares Maximum strike price allocated in 31 December to be awarded in Executive Director monetary award 23 March 2016 March 2016 2016 March 2017 Rupert Pearce 1,046,564 9.30 112,564 100% 112,564 Tony Bates 844,125 9.30 87,241 100% 87,241 2014 PSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF PERFORMANCE OVER THE PERIOD 2014-2016 In 2014, the then Executive Chairman, CEO and CFO received awards of conditional shares under the PSP, which are set out in the table below.
Of these awards, as noted below, only 48% of shares originally awarded will vest.
Awards made Market price at Face value at Award as % Executive Director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award of salary Vesting date Andrew Sukawaty 19 March 2014 176,207 6.97 1,229,484 200% 19 March 2017 Rupert Pearce 19 March 2014 96,954 6.97 676,496 150% 19 March 2017 1 Tony Bates 10 June 2014 58,919 7.63 449,993 100% 10 June 2017 1 Mr Bates was appointed to the Board as CFO in June 2014, and received a PSP award of 100% of salary shortly after his appointment Vesting of the awards was dependent on 3-year TSR vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts and 3-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three years to 31 December 2016 and weighted equally.
There was no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target 3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 50% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
50% Less than 5%: nil vesting 5%: 0% vesting 8%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 8% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 93 In respect of relative TSR, the Companys performance was at the 50th percentile vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, which gave a vesting outcome of 30% for the element or 15% out of 100% for the total award.
In respect of EBITDA, growth over the period was 7.0% p. a. resulting in a vesting outcome of 66% for the element or 33% out of 100% for the total award.
The total amount that will vest in 2017, subject to continued employment, will therefore be 48% of the maximum award.
The then Executive Chairmans now Non-Executive Chairman 2014 PSP award is reduced on a time pro-rata basis for the period he served as an Executive Director, ie 19 March 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Therefore, 22,240 shares, plus shares added in lieu of accrued dividends, will vest to the Chairman on 19 March 2017.
Messrs Pearce and Bates will receive 46,538 and 28,281 shares respectively at the appropriate vesting dates.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE OF 2015 PERFORMANCE TARGETS AUDITED ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2015 PERFORMANCE Last year, the Company committed to disclosing the 2015 bonus financial targets in this year's Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets and actual performance against them are set out below.
Performance targets Formulaic Actual 1 Weighting Actual bonus outcome payout % of financial Target Stretch performance % of financial % of financial Performance measure element $m $m $m element element EBITDA 67% 645 677 726 67.0% Revenue 33% 1,247 1,310 1,274 25.5% Total 100% 92.5% 75% 1 As disclosed in last years Report, in considering the underlying performance of the business, the Committee felt that contributions from a strategic contract should be only partially applied as a fair reflection of the performance of the Company overall.
On a formulaic basis, the bonus payout in respect of financial performance is 92.5% of maximum.
However, the Committee used its discretion to adjust downwards the payout to be 75% of that element Taking into account the Companys financial performance and the wider performance and contributions of the CEO and CFO in 2015, the overall bonus outcomes were 90.6% and 103.1% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively.
The Committee believes these outcomes are warranted and reflective of Company and individual performance in 2015.
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2015 were provided in last years Annual Report on Remuneration.
BSA IN RESPECT OF 2015 PERFORMANCE Details of the financial targets and actual performance against target in respect of the 2015 BSA are provided in the Annual cash bonus in respect of 2015 performance section above.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2016 AUDITED BSA IN RESPECT OF 2015 PERFORMANCE An allocation of shares was made on 27 March 2015 at a share price of 9.34 in respect of the March 2015 BSA.
The confirmation of these awards was based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
As advised in the 2015 report, the performance targets were achieved in full and the full number of shares originally allocated in March 2015 was awarded in March 2016, and will vest in equal tranches in March 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Conversion rate Share price on based on Share price on date of Number of performance Confirmed date of share Face value on Maximum allocation shares for year ended number of award date of award monetary 27 March allocated in 31 December shares awarded 22 March 22 March Executive Director award 2015 March 2015 2015 in March 2016 2016 2016 Rupert Pearce 1,037,294 9.34 111,089 100% 111,089 9.30 1,033,128 Tony Bates 787,496 9.34 84,337 100% 84,337 9.30 784,334 94 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2016 PSP AWARD IN RESPECT OF PERFORMANCE OVER THE PERIOD 2016-2018 In March 2016, the Executive Directors received PSA share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2018.
Awards made Market price at Face value at Award as % Executive Director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award of salary Vesting date Rupert Pearce 23 March 2016 112,564 9.30 1,046,564 185% 23 March 2019 Tony Bates 23 March 2016 87,241 9.30 811,123 175% 23 March 2019 The award levels fall within the normal maximum permitted amount of 200% under the Remuneration Policy, and were determined taking into account the overall market pay data, the performance of the Company and the individuals strong personal performance and contribution to shareholder value creation over the year.
Vesting of the awards will be dependent on 3-year TSR vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, 3-year EBITDA growth, and achievement of specific strategic objectives.
As discussed in previous reports, strategic objectives were first introduced as a performance measure in our long-term share plan in 2015.
The Company continues to believe that it is important for management to be focused on delivering critical strategic programmes which will drive long-term shareholder value creation.
The strategic objectives described below are the ones identified to deliver this value for the three-year period to 31 December 2018.
Relative TSR, EBITDA and strategic objectives will all be measured over the three years to 31 December 2018 and weighted 30%, 30% and 40%, respectively.
There will be no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards, and part-cycle updates on achievement against the strategic objectives, are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target 3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 excluding investment 30% Below median: nil vesting trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
30% Less than 5%: nil vesting 5%: 0% vesting 11%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 11% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Global Xpress: complete successful market entry for next generation Inmarsat-5 satellites Part-cycle update: GX gained market traction with unique Ka-band coverage in place from the start of 2016 Aviation: putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case which will support material revenues beyond 2017 Part-cycle update: Good progress in laying the foundations for IFC and continued progress in the development of the European Aviation Network L-band: aggressively work to sustain L-band revenues despite migration of services from L-band to Global Xpress Ka-band, ongoing US sequestration and increasing competition Part-cycle update:  which is a new service will use L-band and went through trials in 2016 ahead of its launch in 2017 Strategic contract: maximise the near and medium-term income opportunities from this key strategic contract Part-cycle update: An amendment to the Cooperation Agreement was signed which significantly benefits both parties Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 95 PENSION AUDITED The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys defined contribution pension plan arrangements.
No individual participates in the defined benefit plan.
An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan or not join the pension plan and receive a capped employer contribution paid as additional salary.
An amount of 12.5% of capped salary is the highest amount that could be paid under the existing arrangements.
The capped salary level increases nominally each year.
The contribution levels are equivalent to approximately 3% of salary for each Executive Director.
Neither Mr Pearce nor Mr Bates is a member of the UK defined contribution pension plan.
The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan is age 65 with an employee able to retire from age 55.
The current employer contributions subject to the cap of 147,600 for the 2015 16 tax year and 149,400 for the 2016 17 tax year are 12.5% of capped salary.
This amount is reduced for the cost to the Company of the employer national insurance, the effect of which is that the Executive Directors receive an equivalent 11% of capped salary: Rupert Pearce 16k, equivalent to 2.9% of salary, was paid in 2016 Tony Bates 16k, equivalent to 3.5% of salary, was paid in 2016 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the prior year: Base fee Additional fees Taxable benefits Total 1 000 000 000 000 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2 Andrew Sukawaty 306.4 299.1 17.5 20.0 323.9 319.1 Simon Bax 53.5 52.2 12.5 8.1 0.2 66.0 60.5 Sir Bryan Carsberg 53.5 52.2 12.7 10.1 1.2 0.8 67.4 63.1 3 Stephen Davidson 53.5 52.2 17.7 17.4 0.9 1.2 72.1 70.8 3 Kathleen Flaherty 53.5 52.2 5.0 4.5 58.5 56.7 4 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 106.9 105.1 5.0 4.5 111.9 109.6 Janice Obuchowski 53.5 52.2 7.8 5.6 61.3 57.8 Dr Abe Peled 53.5 54.5 25.2 5.6 78.7 60.1 Robert Ruijter 53.5 49.8 12.5 3.1 66.0 52.9 Dr Hamadoun Tour 53.5 46.6 7.8 3.8 61.3 50.4 5 Phillipa McCrostie 18.0 1.8 2.2 22.0 6 Total 859.3 816.10 108.0 62.7 21.8 22.20 989.1 901.0 1 The taxable benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings.
The tax due in respect of these benefits is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible 2 Mr Sukawaty receives healthcare cover 3 Mr Davidson and Mrs Flaherty retired as Non-Executive Directors on 19 January and 2 March 2017, respectively 4 The fees for General C. Robert Kehler Rtd include a fee of 53,470.98 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary in the US 5 Mrs McCrostie was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2016 6 The total figure for 2015 excludes 94.1k paid to Mr Rennocks for the period 1 January to 6 November 2015 when he was a Director EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR AUDITED There were no exit payments made in 2016.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to past Directors.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Executive Directors do not currently hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Pearce holds various positions in organisations affiliated to the satellite industry which are disclosed in his biography on page 58: none are currently fee-paying.
96 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2017 BASE SALARY Salaries are typically reviewed annually in July for the Executive Directors and the general workforce.
In 2016, the Company made the decision that due to business circumstances at the time, the annual salary review would be deferred for the Executive Directors and Executive Management Board to January 2017.
Based on the subsequent review, the Committee approved a salary increase of 2% for both Executive Directors, effective from 1 January 2017.
Salary increases across the Group averaged 2.2%, and averaged 1.94% for non-UK employees.
The Committee believes the new salaries are appropriate in the context of market pay data and continued strong individual performance.
Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2017, which is the same time for the general workforce.
The table below shows the Executive Directors salaries as at July 2015 and January 2017.
Salary at Salary at 1 Executive Director 1 January 2017 % change 1 July 2015 Rupert Pearce 577,024 2% 565,710 Tony Bates 472,770 2% 463,500 1 Annual salary review deferred from 1 July 2016 to 1 January 2017 PENSION Cash payments in lieu of employer pension contributions for 2017 will be made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy table set out on page 82, and will be on the same basis as those made in 2016.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 2017 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2016, and will be 125% of salary.
The annual bonus will continue to have a financial element and an element linked to personal performance.
The financial element of the bonus, totalling 70% of maximum bonus opportunity, will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA 67% of the maximum award and revenue 33%.
As in 2016, the Committee will have the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
BSA SHARES In March 2017, a monetary BSA award will be made and nominally converted to shares immediately as happened in 2016.
As in previous years, the level of award will not be confirmed until the results for 2017 have been determined and may be lower but not higher than the initial award.
There is no change to the vesting timetable: the shares will vest in equal tranches in March 2019, 2020 and 2021, subject to continued employment.
With the nominal conversion of the shares at the outset, this more closely aligns the value delivered to participants under this award with the value created for shareholders over the same period.
The number and value of the shares actually awarded will be determined in March 2018 after the performance conditions are known to be met or not.
The level of award in March 2017 will be 185% and 175% of salary for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates, respectively, the same levels as in 2016.
The performance measures will be the same as the financial metrics used in the 2017 annual bonus.
67% of the award will be linked to EBITDA and 33% to revenue.
As in previous years, the BSA performance targets relate to annual performance and will therefore be disclosed in full on a retrospective basis.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the award levels, and believe they are appropriate in the context of the Companys ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors will contribute personally towards overall Group performance.
The award levels are in line with market benchmark levels for FTSE 50-150 companies excluding investment trusts when considered as part of a total package.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 97 PSA SHARES A PSA award will be made in March 2017, and the level of award will be 185% of salary for Mr Pearce and 175% for Mr Bates, the same levels as in 2016.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the award levels, and believe they are appropriate in the context of Companys ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors will contribute personally towards overall Group performance.
The PSA awards in 2017 will operate on the same basis as they did in 2016.
Awards vest after three years based upon the same three performance conditions, measured over the three years to 31 December 2019.
The targets are as follows.
Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target 3-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth p. a.
30% Less than 3%: nil vesting 3%: 0% vesting 7%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 3% and 7% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Global Xpress: complete successful market entry to satellite broadband market through the next generations of Inmarsat satellites Aviation: put in place all key building blocks of Aviation business case to support material revenues forecast over the LRBP period L-band: Work assiduously to sustain L-band revenues despite GX migration and both ongoing tight budgets and strong competition in all markets Strategic contract: To maximise the overall net contribution of the contract to Inmarsat Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period The Committee considered the appropriateness of a five-year PSA horizon in 2016.
The Committee noted shareholder preference for post-vesting holding periods for long-term incentive awards, and is therefore introducing a mandatory two-year holding period for vested awards, starting with the awards to be made in 2017 and future years under the PSA.
No shares may be sold during the holding period except to cover tax liabilities.
Vested but held shares are treated as owned by the individual, and count towards shareholding for the purpose of calculating achievement of shareholding guidelines.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The current NED fee levels are set out in the table below.
NED fees as at 31 December 2016 Amount Basic fee 54,000 Senior Independent Director inclusive of any additional Committee fees 84, 000 Non-Executive Chairman inclusive of any additional Committee fees 309,500 Additional Committee fees: Chairman of the Audit Committee 15,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15,000 Chairman of the Nominations Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee 10,000 Committee membership per Committee 5,500 Fees will next be reviewed in July 2017 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman also receives international healthcare cover 15,795 in 2016.
98 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the Companys performance over the last eight years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Companys shares compared to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our performance against a broad equity market index, and Inmarsat is a constituent of the index.
The Committee will review the appropriateness of the comparator group used in future reports to shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN FTSE 350 xIT 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Inmarsat FTSE 350 xIT Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters CEO EIGHT-YEAR REMUNERATION HISTORY AUDITED The table below details the Chief Executives single figure of total remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same eight-year period.
For the years 2009-2011, the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Andrew Sukawaty AS was the same individual reflecting a salary for the combined role.
Rupert Pearce RP became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
However, because Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive Chairman in 2012, 2013 and 2014, we have also shown his single figure in this table for information 3 Formulaic bonus outcome prior to application of voluntary reduction STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 99 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group.
The data is based on all Inmarsat UK employees, including Executive Directors apart from the CEO and the senior management team.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION FROM 2015 TO 2016 Other UK CEO employees 2016 2015 000 000 % change % change 1 4 Salary 566.0 542.0 4.3% 1.7% 2 Taxable benefits 2.0 1.9 2.3% 1.0% 3 Short-term incentives 1,302.0 1,524.5 14.6% 13.5% Total 1,870.0 2,068.8 9.6% 2.03% 1 The CEOs salaries shown relate to the average salaries paid in respect of each of the financial years.
No salary increase was awarded to the CEO in 2016 2 Taxable benefits include only healthcare benefits 3 Represents the annual bonus payment for the financial year just ended plus the value of BSA shares to be awarded corresponding to the relevant financial year at share prices as set out in the single figure table on page 90.
2016 bonus is based on the post-reduction amount 4 The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year 5 The short-term incentive result for UK employees does not reflect the result for Group employees generally, which show a negative percentage of 9.6% RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, the below shows remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders dividends and share buy-back and other significant spend.
Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spend as it shows the investment being made in the Companys future growth.
Our business model creates value that is distributed in the form of remuneration to employees, returns to shareholders and funds which are reinvested in the business.
We have invested significantly in recent years in the business while at the same time reviewing pay levels to be competitive and securing good returns to shareholders through increasing capital value in the share price and increasing dividend payments.
We are focused on putting in place a sound platform for the long-term success of the Group.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY $m $267.7m Total employee pay $260.4m $235.7m Dividends $224.6m $412.9m Cash capital expenditure $497.1m 2016 2015 100 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AUDITED The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2016 based on a share price of 7.51 as at 31 December 2016: Unvested and 3 Unvested and subject to Shareholding Current Shares held as Shares held as subject to performance guideline shareholding Requirement 1 2 at 31 Dec 2015 at 31 Dec 2016 deferral conditions % salary % salary met?
Rupert Pearce 747,046 824,254 249,884 223,653 500% 1,426% Yes 4 Tony Bates 17,389 153,516 171,578 500% 277% No Andrew Sukawaty 937,228 1,076,825 Simon Bax 7,000 11,500 Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327 Stephen Davidson 1,500 1,500 Kathleen Flaherty 3,073 3,073 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 1,000 2,000 Janice Obuchowski 7,000 7,000 Dr Abe Peled 10,000 10,000 Robert Ruijter Dr Hamadoun Tour Phillipa McCrostie 1 The unvested and subject to deferral column includes BSA BSP awards granted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and 48% of the 2014 PSP as performance has been tested 2 The unvested and subject to performance conditions column includes PSP PSA awards made in 2015 and 2016 3 Includes the BSP BSA conditional awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and associated dividend shares, and 48% of the PSP awarded in 2014 4 Mr Bates joined the Company in June 2014.
The shareholding guideline of five times salary is to be achieved over a fiveto seven-year period Several of our Non-Executive Directors have significant shareholdings.
There were no changes in Directors interests from 31 December 2016 to 8 March 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 101 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INMARSAT LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS AND ALL-EMPLOYEE PLANS AUDITED This information is accurate as at 31 December 2016.
INMARSAT BONUS SHARE AWARDS AUDITED The table below shows details of outstanding BSA BSPs after the award has been converted from a monetary value or allocation of shares into conditional awards, which vest over a subsequent three-year period.
Share awards Reinvested Share awards held at dividends held at 1 January Awarded during during Vested during 31 December 1 2 3 2016 the year the year the year 2016 Award price Vesting date Rupert Pearce Share award made in March 2013 Fully vested: March 2016 35,333 35,333 6.50 was the last vesting date Share award made in March 2014 March 2015, March 2016 51,329 1,288 24,663 27,954 6.89 and March 2017 Share award made in March 2015 March 2016, March 2017 75,947 5,106 26,141 54,912 8.91 and March 2018 Share award made in March 2016 March 2017, March 2018 111,089 9,391 120,480 9.30 and March 2019 Tony Bates Share award made in March 2015 March 2016, March 2017 52,169 1,745 17,389 36,525 8.91 and March 2018 Share award made in March 2016 March 2017, March 2018 84,337 4,235 88,710 9.30 and March 2019 4 Andrew Sukawaty Share award made in March 2013 Fully vested: March 2016 89,900 89,900 6.50 was the last vesting date Share award made in March 2014 March 2015, March 2016 122,771 3,083 61,384 64,470 6.89 and March 2017 Share award made in March 2015 March 2016, March 2017 136,934 4,584 45,643 95,875 8.91 and March 2018 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date 2 On 14 March 2016, Mr Sukawaty and Mr Pearce sold sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance.
The shares were sold at a price of 9.427 per share, representing a monetary value of vested shares of 858,011 and 379,663 respectively.
Mr Bates retained the full number of shares he received, being 17,389, and paid the tax due on them to the Company 3 The award price is the price when the shares change from being allocated to granted following the performance test being completed 4 Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director Mr Pearce and Mr Bates will receive BSA awards in March 2017 of 112,564 and 87,241 shares respectively for the allocation made in March 2016.
100% of the original allocation will be awarded as the performance conditions have been fully met.
102 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 INMARSAT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED INMARSAT PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS AUDITED The table below shows details of outstanding PSA PSPs.
Reinvested Share awards Share awards dividends held at held at 1 January Awarded during during Vested during Lapsed during 31 December 1 2016 the year the year the year the year 2016 Award price Vesting date Rupert Pearce 2 Award made in 2013 98,435 11,884 55,159 55,160 6.87 March 2016 3 Award made in 2014 96,954 96,954 6.98 March 2017 Award made in 2015 111,089 111,089 9.34 March 2018 Award made in 2016 112,564 112,564 9.30 March 2019 Tony Bates 3 Award made in 2014 58,919 58,919 7.64 June 2017 Award made in 2015 84,337 84,337 9.34 March 2018 Award made in 2016 87,241 87,241 9.30 March 2019 4 Andrew Sukawaty 2 Award made in 2013 201,262 3,526 63,345 141,443 6.87 March 2016 3 Award made in 2014 176,207 176,207 6.98 March 2017 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date 2 50% of the 2013 PSP vested in 2016 3 48% of the 2014 PSP will vest in March 2017 4 Mr Sukawatys outstanding PSA awards made to him when he was Executive Chairman will vest to him on a time pro-rata basis on their respective normal vesting dates for the period he was an Executive Director, subject to performance and continued employment INMARSAT SHARESAVE SCHEME 2016 AWARD AUDITED The information below relates to the UK Sharesave plan which the Executive Directors can contribute monthly savings to over a three-year period.
Options held at Options held at Granted during Exercised 31 December Option price per Date from which Executive Director 1 January 2016 the year during the year 2016 share exercisable Expiry date Rupert Pearce 1,960 1,584 1,960 1,584 5.68 August 2019 January 2020 Tony Bates 1,584 1,584 5.68 August 2019 January 2020 The then Executive Chairman, Mr Andrew Sukawaty, held 1,960 options over shares under the Inmarsat 2005 Sharesave scheme at an option price of 4.59.
These options were exercised on 14 March 2016.
The award was made when Mr Sukawaty was an executive.
Mr Sukawaty and Mr Pearce both retained the full number of maturing SAYE shares, being 1,960 each on maturity.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March and signed on its behalf by: SIMON BAX Chairman, Remuneration Committee 8 March 2017
