68 69 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2016, which explains the remuneration decisions made by the Remuneration Committee in respect of the Executive Directors and the amounts paid OUR OBJECTIVE IS TO ENSURE, ON BEHALF OF THE and awarded to them in respect of the year.
SHAREHOLDERS, THAT REMUNERATION IS SUFFICIENT We are not seeking shareholder approval for a revised Directors Remuneration Policy at TO ATTRACT, RETAIN AND MOTIVATE OUR STAFF TO the 2016 AGM and shall continue to operate DELIVER THE GROUPS STRATEGY.
WE SEEK TO ALIGN within the policy approved at the 2014 AGM SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES AND FOCUS ON RISK for another year.
Over the course of the next few months, we shall be reviewing our policy, MANAGEMENT AND APPROPRIATE OVERSIGHT.
as it reaches the end of its three year life, PETER GIBBS with a view to presenting an updated policy CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
There have been no changes over the course of the year in the way that we reward the Executive Directors and our other staff members.
VOTING OUTCOME AT 2015 AGM The Committee was disappointed with the outcome of the shareholder vote on the Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM as we had discussed the report with our major investors in advance of the meeting and had the support of 16 of our 20 largest shareholders.
We were also aware that the Investment Associations Institutional Voting Information Service IVIS had not raised any concerns over our report.
We understand that Institutional Shareholder Services ISS issued a recommendation to vote against the report on the grounds that our disclosure of incentive outcomes did not adequately explain the linkage to performance.
We have attempted to address that concern in this report by disclosing additional information in respect of the KPIs and other factors taken into account in determining individual awards to be made to Executive The following pages set out the Remuneration Committee reports and Directors in respect of FY16 see page associated disclosures for financial year 2016.
I also explain below the rationale into five parts: behind the incentive arrangements we have 1.
Governance of remuneration: Our scope and terms of reference implemented, which are unusual for a FTSE 2. Review of the year: The significant topics we addressed 250 company.
Compensation summary: An overview of the remuneration arrangements in place 4.
Annual Report on Remuneration ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The majority of remuneration provided In deciding on the remuneration of our ANNUAL AWARD POOL AAP from the AAP 58% for FY 16 is deferred, Executive Directors, the Committee has In order to be able to retain and attract of which 71% is delivered in shares.
firstly considered the overall performance employees of high calibre, we recognise that Balance Sheet Carry awards are made in of the firm which reflects positively on the we need to offer remuneration that is similar respect of the financial year or vintage in management group, operating as a team.
in quantum and structure to that provided which investments are made and typically do This has been an excellent year overall with by the firms with which we compete for not generate a cash payment for participants a strong level of funds raised, and highly talent, particularly private equity firms and for five to seven years.
satisfactory deployment of our funds.
investment banks see page 87 for details Cash profits are in line with last year and The Committee remains of the view that of benchmarking.
we are seeing good growth in our fund realised cash profit is the most relevant Five years ago, we introduced the Annual management profits.
We have also taken performance metric to drive incentives in Award Pool AAP to link all of our variable some major steps to make our balance sheet ICGs business and that the limit of 30% of incentives to realised cash profit and to more efficient, resulting in further capital cash profit continues to be appropriate.
provide an overall cap on variable pay distributions to our shareholders.
Furthermore, given the nature of our awarded by the Company.
The value of business, it is important to have the flexibility However, when making individual decisions all incentives other than third party carry of the rolling 30% cap.
The Committee for the year, we noted that the level of capital and similar arrangements awarded over a will review the balance of awards made raised, whilst extremely high compared rolling five year period cannot exceed 30% under the AAP over the next year to ensure to our long term objective, was below the of realised cash profit over that period.
that this continues to reflect and support target set for the year and this has been The 30% limit on the AAP provides an overall the business.
reflected in the awards to Christophe Evain cap on variable pay whereas the rolling five and Benot Durteste.
year period allows for the fact that cash EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR The prior year saw an outstanding success profit at ICG is inherently an unpredictable ALLOCATIONS FROM THE AAP in the sale of the assets of our European measure.
FY16 marks the end of the first five year period and the cumulative cost of Each year, the Committee reviews ICGs Mezzanine Fund 2006.
This was reflected in an exceptional award to Benot Durteste in incentives has remained well within the 30% performance against a range of KPIs to that year only.
limit for the five year period as can be seen determine the core level of awards to be from the table below.
made to the three Executive Directors from During the year we have made strong the AAP.
We then consider the personal progress in developing our infrastructure Realised Available Actual performance of each of the Executive FY cash Award spend on Cumulative teams including our risk and control ending profit Pool incentives % of Directors to determine whether there should functions.
This has been reflected in the 31 March m m m cash profit be an increase or decrease to the core awards to Philip Keller which were reduced awards.
This year we have again increased in the prior year following a technical 2012 164.9 49.5 29.5 17.9% the level of transparency of this process regulatory breach disclosed in last years 2013 10.7 3.2 22.1 33.5% in the Annual Report on Remuneration to Audit Committee report.
provide shareholders with a clearer insight 2014 339.1 101.7 50.2 20.6% Of the variable awards to be made in respect into the factors taken into account in making of FY16 to Executive Directors, 91% will 2015 182.6 54.8 48.6 22.3% those decisions.
See page 85. be deferred and each element including 2016 184.2 55.3 51.5 23.5% the cash bonus is subject to malus and or clawback over a period of at least two years after it was earned see page 77.
70 71 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS More information on the allocation of awards REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES from the AAP to Executive Directors is set out on pages 76 to 77.
Five guiding principles are reflected in the design of the staff I shall be happy to respond to any questions compensation arrangements.
you may have before or at the AGM and look forward to your support.
ALIGNMENT BETWEEN STAFF AND SHAREHOLDERS Peter Gibbs AAP 30% of cash profit cap on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee expected value of awards ensures long term affordability.
23 May 2016 SUPPORT THE LONG TERM CORPORATE STRATEGY Balance Sheet Carry awards reflect the long term corporate strategy to invest successfully and maximise returns.
Key staff remunerated to grow value in the FMC.
PROMOTE STAFF EQUITY OWNERSHIP The majority of executive remuneration is in the form of equity: and shareholding guidelines have been introduced.
TRANSPARENT All aspects of remuneration are clear to employees and openly communicated to employees and shareholders.
REWARD ON CASH The reward on cash principle ensures that employees are only rewarded for realised gains.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee meets at least three times PART 1: REMIT AND RESPONSIBILITIES a year and more frequently if necessary.
The Committee is responsible for: GOVERNANCE OF Executive Directors and Kathryn Purves attend REMUNERATION Determining the total individual the meetings by invitation and the Committee remuneration package of each Executive consults the Executive Directors about its Director, having given due regard to The Committee is authorised proposals and has access to professional the contents of the Code, as well as the advice from outside the Company.
The Head by the Board to determine and Listing Rules of Human Resources also attends the meetings agree the framework for the Determining targets for any performance as secretary.
No Director is involved in any related pay schemes operated by the decisions as to their own remuneration.
remuneration of the Chairman Company as well as the policy for pension A table showing the number of Committee of the Company, the Executive arrangements for each Executive Director meetings held during the year and Directors and such other The overall remuneration policy for all the attendance record of individual members of the executive the Groups staff and takes into account Directors can be found in the Corporate the requirement that the remuneration Governance section.
management as it is instructed arrangements should: Committee meetings attendance table page 47 by the Board to consider Be consistent with and promote sound EFFECTIVENESS and effective risk management, and not encourage excessive risk taking An external effectiveness review of the Remuneration Committee will take place Be in line with the strategic priorities, later in the financial year.
The interim objectives, values and long term internal review in March 2016 reviewed the interests of the Group Committees performance and concluded Include measures to avoid conflict that there were no significant areas for of interest concern in respect of the performance Take into account the long term of the Committee or any of its members.
interests of shareholders, investors and The Committee reviewed the proposed other stakeholders actions from the May 2015 internal review, which included making available Be formulated on the basis of advice from the Groups compliance to the Committee an appropriate range function, particularly in relation to of benchmarking data for comparator companies, and concluded all required performance measurement actions had been completed.
The findings COMPOSITION of the formal external review to be held, and any related actions, will be fully disclosed in The Committee consists of Non Executive next years Annual Report.
The current members are Peter Gibbs Chairman of the Committee, ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE Justin Dowley, Kevin Parry and Kim Wahl.
Justin Dowley will leave the Committee in PwC has been appointed by the Committee and advises management on remuneration July due to his retirement from the Board.
PwC also provides advice to the Kathryn Purves has attended meetings of the Committee on other HR issues on request.
Committee at the invitation of the Chairman to Advisers are selected on the basis of their ensure that risk matters are taken into account expertise in the area and with a view to in determining the remuneration of Directors.
ensuring independence from other advisers Biographical details can be found on pages 42 to the Group.
The Committee is therefore to 43. confident that independent and objective None of the Committee members have any advice is received from their advisers.
personal financial interests other than as Mayer Brown have been available to advise shareholders or investors in ICG funds, the Committee during the year to 31 March conflicts of interest arising from cross 2016.
These advisers were appointed by the directorships or day to day involvement Company.
The fees charged for advice to the in running the business.
The Company Committee were 121,655 PwC.
Fees are therefore considers that it complies with charged on the basis of time spent.
the Code recommendations regarding the composition of the Committee.
72 73 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS PART 2: MEETINGS TOPICS ADDRESSED REVIEW OF THE YEAR May Review of the calculation of adjusted pre-incentive cash profit The Committee held four Review of market compensation benchmark data meetings during the year.
In each of its meetings it Review of third party FMC valuation discusses people risk, reviews Review and approval of compensation recommendations for FY15, taking into account advice from the leavers and receives reports on Groups compliance function in relation to staff.
Other work is undertaken performance measurement periodically.
Over the course NED fee review of the year the Committee 2015 Remuneration Committee report considered and discussed Review and approval of allocation of entitlement to Third the following matters: Party Carry TPC Remuneration Committee terms of reference september AGM and shareholder feedback Remuneration policy review Review of bonus commitments UK pension scheme update January Review of emerging trends within remuneration regulation and governance 2016 Remuneration Committee report Update on remuneration policy review Review of bonus commitments Review and approval of allocation of entitlement to TPC Remuneration Committee annual timetable review Remuneration policy annual review March 2016 compensation review Employee engagement survey Update on remuneration policy review Executive Directors compensation benchmark review 2016 Remuneration Committee report UK pension policy
