Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report continued Our goal has been to deliver simplification, fairness and shareholder alignment.
Cathryn Riley Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder Remuneration Committee Committee members I am pleased to present the Directors composition % Cathryn Riley Chair and Remuneration Report for the year ended independent non-executive director 31 December 2016 on behalf of the 100 Tony Hales Senior independent Board.
This remuneration report is split into non-executive director two sections: Jayne Almond Independent Our new Directors Remuneration Policy non-executive director 2017 Policy which is preceded by a Richard Moat Independent table on pages 74 and 75 summarising non-executive director changes made from the outgoing policy: and The Annual Remuneration Report providing detail of amounts paid Independent non-executive directors during the reporting year including incentive outcomes.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank those shareholders who took the time to provide feedback during the consultation process on the direction of our 2017 Policy.
2016 objectives 2016 progress 2017 objectives Thorough review of Directors 2017 Policy designed to support our Obtain formal shareholder approval of Remuneration Policy ahead of strategic priorities, taking into account the 2017 Policy at the 2017 AGM.
shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
shareholder feedback and evolving Implement the 2017 Policy.
Review and simplify long-term Continue to monitor evolving market and incentives in light of expiry of the Extensive engagement with best practice.
Performance Share Plan PSP shareholders during the remuneration in 2017. policy consultation process.
Re-tender of independent Simplification of the existing incentive remuneration advisors.
Appointment of Willis Towers Watson as independent remuneration advisor to the Committee.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 71 Directors remuneration report continued exercised its discretion to limit the pay-out to the threshold Overview opportunity of 20% of maximum in respect of both Role financial and non-financial performance.
This resulted in a total bonus payable of 16% of maximum opportunity, The Committees terms of reference are available on our with 10% achieved in respect of financial measures and website and some of the key responsibilities include: 6% achieved in respect of personal performance.
Further approving the remuneration policy and its application narrative regarding performance against personal for the executive directors, the Chairman and senior objectives set are on page 85.
Under the DSP, management, for recommendation to the Board: two thirds of bonus is payable in shares and deferred for engaging with major shareholders on matters related three years.
to remuneration: and Long-term investment plan LTIP the portion of 2014 determining appropriate performance targets and DSP matching awards and 2014 PSP awards contingent incentive outcomes on TSR performance will lapse in full.
The remaining two-thirds of those awards were contingent on EPS and Composition revenue less impairment growth in the financial years The Committee comprises four independent non- 2014, 2015 and 2016 as follows: executive directors and the quorum for decision making 1 3 on cumulative EPS growth performance of 6% to is two members.
15% p. a. actual achieved 6.57% p. a. : and 1 3 on growth in revenue less impairment performance Business context 2016 performance of 5% to 12% p. a. actual achieved 6.42% p. a.
In 2016 we have faced a number of operational and regulatory challenges which have impacted the business, As a consequence of EPS and growth in revenue less our financial performance and the experience of impairment being above threshold 23.29% of the 2014 shareholders.
The Committee has been cognisant of this DSP matching share awards and 2014 PSP awards have during both the policy review process and in considering vested see page 86 for details.
the remuneration outcome for our executive directors in Overall this has resulted in a single figure for remuneration respect of performance in 2016. for 2016 which is 36% lower than 2015 which the Our operational performance and the financial review of Committee feels is appropriate and balances the 2016 is discussed on pages 24 to 35 and includes some Company results and shareholder experience.
of the key financial metrics that we use to incentivise executive directors to deliver our strategy, including profit before tax, revenue less impairment and earnings per Activities in 2016 share EPS.
Headlines include: Treatment of leavers profit before tax of 92.6 million which is lower than David Broadbent and Adrian Gardner resigned from the 2015 reflecting lower home credit profit and higher Board in February 2016 and September 2016 respectively.
investment in IPF Digital offset partially by a positive In accordance with the Companys remuneration policy, FX impact: the Committee took David Broadbents long service and revenue less impairment of 575.9 million being higher significant contributions into account and exercised its than 2015 due to the larger receivables balance: and discretion to permit him to retain his existing share awards on a pro rata basis.
All existing awards in respect of EPS decreased to 30.2 pence from 37.1 pence in 2015 Adrian Gardner lapsed in full on cessation of his as a consequence of the reduction in profit.
Neither of the former executive directors received any incentive payment in respect of 2016.
Incentive outcomes for 2016 Further details including the rationale for the respective The 2016 incentive outcomes reflect the performance treatment are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
picture outlined above and the recent erosion of shareholder value as a consequence of proposed Supporting our business needs and strategy with revisions to consumer credit regulation in Poland.
a revised Directors Remuneration Policy Consequently the portion of 2014 Deferred Share Plan During the year the Board has continued to embed DSP matching awards and the portion of Performance the Group strategy to deliver growth and returns in a share Plan PSP awards contingent on total shareholder changing consumer, regulatory and competitive return TSR performance will lapse in full.
As described earlier on pages 10 to 11, Annual bonus 50% of total opportunity in 2016 was we have taken an approach to our strategy which subject to the achievement against target of profit before reflects the fact that our operations are at different tax and 50% on the achievement of personal objectives.
In the context of this evolved strategy, The award for achievement of personal objectives being we reviewed our remuneration policy to ensure that conditional upon the achievement of the we continue to have the right incentives to support financial measures.
In line with guidance provided previously, profit was The Committee determined during the course of the expected to be below 2015 and targets for 2016 were policy review that there was a need to make changes to calibrated accordingly.
Against the agreed target range, the current executive director remuneration framework profit before tax of 92.6 million was above threshold but to facilitate simplification, to increase its alignment with below the target level.
However, taking into account the shareholder interests and to place more focus on aforementioned recent value erosion the Committee financial business priorities.
72 Corporate Governance Pension Shareholder engagement Contributions will be reduced from 20% to 15% of base Before any changes to the 2017 Policy were finalised, salary in respect of any new appointments to align with the Committee consulted with our major shareholders the wider workforce.
and their representative bodies regarding our proposals.
Strong support was noted for: Key decisions for 2017 removal of matching awards: The proposed 2017 Policy applies to awards granted extension of the holding period: from its approval at the AGM onwards.
Under this policy a decrease in the weighting of personal objectives the Company can honour all pre-existing incentive for the annual bonus: and award obligations and commitments that were entered increased simplicity.
into before the 2017 Policy takes effect and remain eligible to vest subject to their original terms.
We also listened to areas of concern and included in The salary of the CEO will remain unchanged for 2017 our final policy changes: at 505,000 in line with expected market practice and mandatory annual bonus deferral of 50%: and shareholder expectations.
It is intended that the annual amended annual bonus and PSP opportunity levels bonus for 2017 will be operated under the 2017 Policy.
In to balance the lost opportunity of the matching order to facilitate a smooth transition between policies, award against sensitivities regarding increases the first PSP awards under the 2017 Policy will be made in in opportunity.
The PSP awards in 2017 will be made under the 2014 Policy, prior to the AGM, at the 2014 Policy award Further to these changes, the 2017 Policy being level of 125% of base salary for the executive directors.
presented to shareholders for approval reduces This is to avoid any potential double counting in respect both on target and total incentive opportunity from of the withdrawal of the DSP matching award and the levels under our current policy 2014 Policy introduction of a higher PSP opportunity.
The final DSP from 258% to 255% target and from 292% to matching award will be made to executive directors on 290% maximum.
two-thirds of the bonus earned in respect of 2016 performance.
Subject to the approval of the 2017 Policy Both the Committee and Board strongly believe at the 2017 AGM, no further DSP matching awards will that the final proposals maintain a strong pay-forbe granted.
performance relationship and are designed to best serve the Companys future ambitions by In addition, we are delighted that Justin Lockwood was incentivising our executive directors and the wider appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 23 February 2017, senior management team to return value to you, having been with the business as Head of Finance for the our shareholders.
last seven years and most recently covering as Interim Chief Financial Officer following Adrian Gardners New remuneration policy key changes departure.
The Committee approved Justins Annual bonus remuneration package and set his base salary at Reduction of target level from 80% to 65% without 260,000.
This is lower than Adrian Gardners base salary any increase in maximum opportunity.
Removal 319,000 and reflects his level of experience and of threshold.
requirement to develop in the role.
As a result and in accordance with the 2014 and 2017 Policies, the An increase in the weighting of financial and Committee expect to review his salary in the upcoming strategic metrics versus personal objectives to 80:20 years and may consider increases beyond those typically from 50:50. granted to the wider workforce to achieve the desired A reduction in the bonus deferral to 1 2 of the salary level commensurate with the role, subject bonus earned 2 3 previously.
Deferred Share Plan matching award Removal of the plan.
Next Steps At the 2017 AGM, to be held on 3 May 2017, the 2017 Performance Share Plan Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote, the 2014 An increase in the annual award level to 190% of Policy having received 97.1% approval at the 2014 AGM: base salary 125% previously to offset the lost and the Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an opportunity from the removal of matching awards.
Extension of the mandatory holding period of vested I very much hope you will support our 2017 Policy along awards to two years previously 50% was available to with our 2016 Directors Annual Remuneration Report at exercise immediately and 50% after a further year.
I will be available at the meeting to answer any Re-weighting of the performance metrics such that questions about the work of the Committee.
TSR shall now account for 50% 33% previously with cumulative EPS and revenue less impairment 25% respectively 33% each previously.
An increase in the exceptional opportunity to 250% from 150% currently, which will be reserved for genuinely exceptional circumstances such Cathryn Riley as recruitment.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2017 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 73 Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction The Committee presents the 2017 Policy which will be put to shareholders for a binding vote at the AGM to be held on 3 May 2017.
This 2017 Policy applies to awards granted from its approval at the AGM onwards.
It is a provision of the 2017 Policy that the Company can honour all pre-existing incentive award obligations and commitments that were entered into before the 2017 Policy takes effect.
These awards remain eligible to vest subject to their original terms.
In addition, where the terms of any remuneration payment including any payments for loss of office were agreed before the 2017 Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company these remain eligible to be paid based on their original terms.
Subject to shareholder approval, the effective date of the 2017 Policy will be 3 May 2017.
The intention of the Committee is that the 2017 Policy will remain in place for three years from the date of its approval.
The table below summarises the substantive changes to our 2014 Policy.
Policy changes table Current policy Proposed changes Rationale Annual bonus Opportunity % base salary Opportunity % base salary Increased performance range requiring greater Maximum 100% Maximum 100% stretch for maximum bonus On target 80% On target 65% A balanced scorecard of Threshold 20% Threshold removed financial metrics better aligns to business KPIs Performance metrics Performance metrics Financial metrics 50% profit before tax 80% balanced scorecard with greater aid transparency emphasis on financial metrics 50% personal Bonus opportunity and 20% personal Deferral deferral practice more in Deferral line with market practice 1 3 in cash and 2 3 in deferred shares To better reflect 1 2 in cash and 1 2 in deferred shares Deferred shares are released after 3 years subject business KPIs to clawback Deferred shares are released after 3 years subject to clawback Deferred Share Plan DSP Matching Award Opportunity % base salary Retire the Matching Award Aid simplicity and optimise perceived value of 1:1 match on deferred shares remaining incentives Performance metrics Prevent duplication with the PSP and enhance pay for Absolute TSR 1 3 performance relationship Cumulative EPS growth 1 3 Better reflect shareholder Growth in revenue less impairment 1 3 preference and Performance period market practice Three years 74 Corporate Governance Policy changes table Current policy Proposed changes Rationale Performance Share Plan PSP Opportunity % base salary Opportunity % base salary Offset removal of DSP matching opportunity Policy 125% Policy 190% Provide more competitive Exceptional 150% Exceptional 250% award levels Performance metrics Performance metrics Increase in TSR weighting provides closer Absolute TSR 1 3 Absolute TSR 1 2 investor alignment Cumulative EPS growth 1 3 Cumulative EPS growth 1 4 Holding period encourages Growth in revenue less impairment 1 3 Growth in revenue less impairment 1 4 longer-term behaviours and Performance period Performance period an investor mind-set Three years Three years Additional 12 month holding period for 50% of shares Plus additional two year holding period Pension Company contribution Company contribution Align with policy for other employees 20% of base salary 15% of base salary for new appointments Notes to the policy change table Although each of the annual bonus metrics will pay out independently, the Committee will set a threshold profit before tax target that must be achieved before any other metrics are assessed.
Although the rules of the new PSP shall permit annual grants up to an individual limit of 250% of base salary this will be reserved for genuinely exceptional circumstances, as determined at the Committees discretion.
It would expect to consult with significant shareholders if awards were routinely made above normal levels and would in all cases make a comprehensive retrospective disclosure outlining the Committees rationale in the Annual Remuneration Report following any such award being made.
Although the Committee recognise that absolute TSR is an unusual but not unprecedented metric to use, identifying comparator companies with a similar shareholder, industry and geographical profile to the Group remains a challenge.
The Committee therefore continues to believe that an absolute TSR metric is the most appropriate metric for assessing value creation and thereby aligning executive and shareholder interest.
However, the Committee will also compare the Companys absolute TSR performance to comparator groups considered appropriate at the point of vesting to ensure that the TSR achievement is truly reflective of business performance.
A new DSP will be presented to shareholders at the AGM to be held on 3 May 2017, consistent with the terms of the 2017 Policy, which removes the ability to grant matching awards.
A new PSP will also be presented as the existing PSP expires in July.
Overall, the changes in the policy described above brings a slight reduction to on target and maximum pay opportunity from 258% to 255% for on target and 292% to 290% for maximum.
How pay is aligned to strategy Our current executive director remuneration framework is intended to strike an appropriate balance between fixed and variable componentsand to provide a clear link between pay and our key strategic priorities.
Executive director and senior management remuneration is structured so that they are only rewarded for the successful delivery of the key strategic priorities of the Company overthe short and long-term.
Objective KPI Incentive scheme Financial Deliver Group profit before tax in line Group profit before tax Annual bonus with expectations Grow revenue Revenue less impairment PSP Manage European markets Return as % of capital Annual bonus to optimise returns Non-financial Grow the number of IPF Digital markets Strategic priority Annual bonus Long-term strategic Deliver sustainable growth Revenue less impairment, Group profit Annual bonus and PSP before tax and EPS Deliver value to shareholders Absolute TSR PSP International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 75 Directors remuneration report continued 2017 Policy Executive directors The remuneration of executive directors is determined by the Committee, taking into account Group performance, individual performance and competitive market practice as well as the pay and conditions of our employees and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals.
The total annual remuneration of executive directors comprises base salary, a cash bonus and deferred bonus shares granted under LTIP pension provisions and other benefits.
2017 Policy table executive directors How the element supports Performance metrics, weighting our strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum potential value and time period Base salary To attract and retain Base salary is paid in twelve equal Normally, salary increases take into None, although overall talent capable of monthly instalments during account salary reviews across the Group performance of the individual delivering the the year.
and are usually in line with increases is considered by the Groups strategy.
By exception, Committee when setting and Salaries are normally reviewed higher awards may be made at the reviewing salaries annually.
Rewards executive annually and any changes are Committees discretion to reflect directors for their generally effective from 1 April.
For example: performance in Salary levels are set taking into the role.
changes to role which increase account role, experience, scope and or responsibility: responsibility and performance, development and performance both of the individual and the in the role: and Company, and also taking into account market conditions and responding to competitive the salaries for comparable roles market pressures.
There is no prescribed maximum increase as per the 2017 Policy.
Pension To provide The Company operates a Company contribution is None.
stakeholder scheme: at the 15% of base salary.
discretion of the Committee, this may be paid as a cash allowance.
The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme to new members and future accrual.
To provide marketThe Company pays the cost of The standard benefits package includes: competitive benefits providing the benefits on a monthly, life assurance of 4x salary: that support the annual or one-off basis.
car allowance: executive directors to All benefits are non-pensionable.
long-term disability cover: undertake their role.
private medical cover for executive director and immediate family: annual medical: and ability to participate in the Companys SAYE Scheme SAYE and any other all-employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
Additional benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances, which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
76 Corporate Governance 2017 Policy table executive directors How the element supports Performance metrics, weighting and our strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum potential value time period Annual bonus To motivate and Measures and targets are set On target opportunity: 65% of Performance is measured over reward sustainable annually and pay-out levels are base salary.
Group profit before determined by the Committee after Maximum opportunity: 100% of Performance is assessed using tax and the the year end, based on performance base salary.
the following criteria: achievement against those targets.
of specific personal typically 80% is based on The Committee may, in exceptional objectives linked achievement of financial circumstances, amend the bonus to the Companys and strategic pay-out should this not, strategy.
measures: and in the view of the Committee, typically 20% is based on reflect overall business performance achievement of personal or individual contribution.
objectives linked to Half of the total bonus amount is achievement of deferred for three years in Company Company strategy.
The Although each of the annual remaining half is paid in cash.
bonus metrics could pay out Payments are made around three independently, the Committee months after the end of the financial will set a minimum threshold year to which they relate.
profit target before any other There are provisions for clawback metrics are assessed.
adjustments on the occurrence of certain events see page 80 for details.
Deferred Share Plan DSP To strengthen the link Half of the total bonus amount is Half of the total bonus amount None.
between short and subject to compulsory deferral for received during the year.
longer-term incentives three years in Company shares and the creation of without any matching.
The matching sustainable longelement under the 2014 Policy will no term value.
Following the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount in cash or shares in respect of the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares that have vested.
The DSP has provision for malus and clawback adjustments on the occurrence of certain events see page 80 for details.
Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 77 Directors remuneration report continued 2017 Policy table executive directors Performance metrics used, How the element supports weighting and time period our strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum potential value applicable Performance Share Plan PSP To motivate and Annual grant of awards, generally In normal circumstances, annual Service and performance reward longer-term made as nil-cost options over a specific award levels for executive directors conditions must be met over performance, and number of shares subject to meeting shall be equivalent to 190% of base three-year periods.
support shareholder specified performance targets.
salary at the time of grant.
Performance is assessed alignment through The Committee has discretion to The rules of the PSP plan permit against three independently incentivising absolute decide whether and to what extent annual grants up to an individual measured metrics that are shareholder targets have been met, and if an limit of 250%.
Although the Committee weighted as follows: value creation.
event occurs that causes the shall retain discretion to make awards 1 2 absolute Committee to consider that the up to this level, it would expect to TSR performance: targets are no longer appropriate, consult with significant shareholders, 1 4 cumulative EPS the Committee may adjust them so if awards were routinely made above growth: and long as the adjustment does not normal levels and would in all cases make them materially less difficult make a comprehensive retrospective 1 4 growth in revenue to satisfy.
disclosure outlining the Committees less impairment.
rationale in the Annual Remuneration The Committee will compare Awards may also be adjusted in the Report following any such award the Companys absolute TSR event of a variation of capital, in being made.
performance to comparator accordance with the plan rules.
groups considered Vesting of PSP awards is dependent on Executive directors will be required to appropriate at the point service and performance conditions.
hold any shares acquired on vesting of vesting.
net of any shares that may need to 25% of the award vests at threshold The targets are set by the be sold to cover taxes for a two-year performance in respect of the Committee, and targets will be period starting on the date performance conditions, with set out in the Annual of vesting.
Remuneration Report of the The PSP has provisions for malus relevant year.
and clawback adjustments on the A six-month averaging period occurrence of certain events see is used for calculating TSR.
Shareholding requirement To support alignment Executive directors are expected to The current shareholding None with shareholder acquire a beneficial shareholding requirement for executive directors is interests.
Shares which have vested unconditionally under the Companys share schemes will be taken into account with effect from the date of vesting but not before.
50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Companys share incentive schemes net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
78 Corporate Governance Non-executive directors The Board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
The Committee reviews the Chairmans fees.
Fees were increased last on 1 October 2013 for the Chairman and 1 January 2014 for the non-executive directors.
No increases to fees are proposed for non-executive directors or the Chairman in 2017.
2017 Policy table non-executive directors Element Purpose Operation Fees To attract and retain Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of a high calibre Chairman days worked.
and non-executive The level of the Chairmans fee is reviewed periodically by the Committee directors by offering market in the absence of the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies or to reflect changes in scope of role and or responsibility.
As approved at the 2014 AGM, the maximum annual aggregate fee level for all non-executive directors allowed by the Companys Articles of Association is 650,000.
The Senior Independent Director and Chairs of the Board Committees are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Any non-executive director who performs services which, in the opinion of the Board, go beyond the ordinary duties of a director may be paid such additional remuneration as the Board may authorise.
Fees are paid on a quarterly basis.
Shareholding To support shareholder Non-executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding requirement alignment by encouraging equivalent to 100% of their directors fee within three years of appointment.
our non-executive directors to align with shareholder interests.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 79 Directors remuneration report continued Discretions Notes to the 2017 Policy table The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, Performance measures and targets PSP and DSP according to their respective rules and in The Committee selects annual bonus performance accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The conditions that are central to the achievement of the Committee retains discretion, consistent with market Companys key strategic priorities for the year and reflect practice, in a number of regards relating to the operation both financial and non-financial objectives.
To balance and administration of these plans.
These include, but are this, the performance conditions for the PSP are linked to not limited to, the following in relation to the PSP and DSP: long-term value creation: TSR aligns with our focus on the participants: shareholder value creation: EPS provides a measure of the timing of grant of an award: profitability and supports our long-term strategy: and revenue less impairment supports our focus on the size of an award: sustainable growth.
The performance targets are the determination of vesting: determined annually by the Committee and are set discretion required when dealing with a change of typically at a level that is stretching and achievable, control or restructuring of the Group: taking into account our strategic priorities and the economic environment in which we operate.
Targets are determination of the treatment of leavers based on the normally set with reference to a range of data points, rules of the plan and the appropriate including the budget, sell-side analyst forecasts, historical treatment chosen: performance, and incentive performance ranges at the adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. Companys comparators, where disclosed.
rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and The Board is of the opinion that the performance measures and targets for the annual bonus are the annual review of performance measures and commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental weighting, and targets for the PSP from year to year.
to the interests of the Company to disclose them during In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee the financial year.
This is particularly so because the retains discretion over: majority of our competitors are unlisted.
However, the Committee commits to making a comprehensive the participants: retrospective disclosure in respect of performance the timing of grant of an award payment: against the targets set where the disclosure of that the determination of the bonus payment: information is no longer deemed commercially sensitive.
dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: Malus and clawback The circumstances when malus and clawback may determination of the treatment of leavers based on the apply include but are not limited to where: rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: and the financial statements of the Company or of any the annual review of performance measures and member of the Group are required to be restated due weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan from to discovery of a misstatement in the relevant financial year to year.
statements resulting in shares vesting to a greater degree than would have been the case if that In relation to both the Companys PSP and annual bonus misstatement had not been made: or plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the the discovery that an assessment of performance performance targets if events occur which cause it to connected to the award including relating to the determine that the targets are no longer appropriate original bonus amount for the DSP was based on e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group misleading or inaccurate information: or business, so long as the amendment will not make the target materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of this there has been fraud or gross misconduct, or discretion would be explained in the Directors circumstance which, in the opinion of the Committee, Remuneration Report and may be the subject of would entitle the Company or any other member of the consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Group to summarily dismiss the individual: or the Committee decides circumstances exist which The use of discretion in relation to the Companys SAYE justify the operation of malus or clawback.
Scheme will be in line with the governing UK Legislation, HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
The clawback period for the PSP normally runs for two years from the date of vesting and from the date of payment in the case of the cash portion of annual bonus awards.
For deferred awards under the DSP, malus will apply for the duration of the deferral period.
In doing so, the Committee would ensure that Illustrations of total remuneration opportunity any such payments have a fair value no higher than that We have set out an illustration of the 2017 Policy as of the awards forgone including payments for any outlined in the table on pages 76 to 78. benefits in kind, pension and other similar allowances, The chart provides an illustration of the proportion of total and reflect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares remuneration made up by each component of the and or options, time horizons and expected value i. e. remuneration policy, together with the value of each.
likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria.
Benefits are calculated as per the single figure of Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using remuneration and three scenarios have been illustrated: existing share plans.
Wherever possible, any new Fixed, On target and Maximum.
arrangements will be tied into the achievement of Group targets in either the annual performance bonus or The chart is indicative, as share price movement and long-term incentives, or both.
Full details will be disclosed dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions in the next Directors Remuneration Report following the made for each scenario are as follows: date of recruitment, which will provide explanations in relation to the amount and delivery structure of the CEO awards made for the purposes of recruitment.
Fixed As shares under the PSP will not normally be released for 0.6M up to three years with a further two year holding period On target for executive directors, some cash-based interim long- 1.2M term arrangement may be provided, but the level will not be more than would otherwise have been paid.
Maximum For internal appointments, any variable pay elements 2.1M M awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 pay out according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted Base salary Benets Pension Bonus PSP as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations Fixed: fixed remuneration only i. e. latest known salary, existing prior to appointment may continue.
As noted in the 2017 Policy table on pages 76 to 78, any On target: fixed remuneration plus on target annual new executive director will be subject to a new maximum bonus 65% plus threshold 25% PSP shares.
The annual pension contribution from the Company of 15% of vesting assumption for the PSP.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus full pay-out of all incentives i. e. 100% of salary in annual bonus, 190% of For both internal and external appointments, the salary in PSP.
Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration Directors service agreements and letters is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate of appointment candidates to the role.
Starting salary will be set in In 2014, the Committee adopted a policy in relation to accordance with the approved remuneration policy, service agreements for newly appointed executive based on a combination of market information, internal directors of six months notice, although Gerard Ryan relativities and individual experience.
Thereafter, salary remains an exception to this, having been appointed on progression will depend on the initial agreed base salary a 12-month rolling contract prior to this change in policy.
and the normal review process.
Justin Lockwood has been appointed on a 6 month The maximum level and structure of ongoing variable rolling contract.
remuneration will be in accordance with the approved All non-executive directors are appointed for three years, remuneration policy, i. e. at an aggregate maximum of up subject to re-election by shareholders.
The initial threeto 100% in respect of annual bonus and, if necessary, year period may be extended.
The Company can 250% in respect of the PSP and or cash awards at terminate the appointment on three months notice.
For the avoidance of doubt, these limits shall not apply to any replacement awards which the Our Articles of Association require that all directors retire Committee may determine it necessary to make in order from office if they have not retired at either of the to secure the services of a preferred candidate.
In any event, at the 2017 AGM, all directors will be standing for re-election in compliance For external appointments, it may be necessary to buyout with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Service an individuals awards from a previous employer.
The agreements are available for inspection at the Committee will seek to minimise the need for such Companys registered office.
Service agreements and arrangements and will aim to recruit executive directors letters of appointment are not reissued when base subject to the policy maximum defined above.
However, salaries or fees are changed.
to be able to attract the required calibre of talent, we may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when we consider these to be in the best interests of the International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 81 Directors remuneration report continued will be met over such period as the Committee Directors service agreements and letters determines appropriate, although the award will normally of appointment continued be reduced on a pro rata basis.
PSP awards that have The dates of directors service agreements who served as vested at the time of leaving will be retained and directors during the year and letters of appointment are: exercisable for a limited period following leaving.
The Executive director Date of service agreement Committee may determine that the holding period will no Gerard Ryan January 2012 longer apply if the director leaves for one of the reasons specified above.
When determining the treatment of Justin Lockwood February 2017 outstanding awards for exiting directors, the Committee Non-executive director Date of appointment will take into account the executive directors level of Tony Hales July 2007 performance and any contribution to a transition.
Cathryn Riley February 2014 Dan OConnor January 2015 For all other leavers, outstanding PSP awards will lapse.
Jayne Almond June 2015 Differences in remuneration policy for all Richard Moat July 2012 employees John Mangelaars July 2015 Former directors All employees are entitled to base salary and benefits 1 appropriate to the market in which they are employed.
Adrian Gardner January 2014 The maximum opportunity available is based on the 2 David Broadbent March 2007 seniority and responsibility of the role.
Adrian Gardner resigned from the role of Chief Financial Officer on PSP awards are only currently available to senior 21 September 2016 and left the Company on 30 September 2016.
David Broadbent resigned from the role of Chief Commercial Officer on management and directors.
23 February 2016 and left the Company on 7 March 2016 by reason of redundancy.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company Loss of office payments In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also Our policy is to limit severance payments on termination considers the general increases in base salaries taking to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the place within the Group.
While the Company does not event that the employment of an executive director consult directly with employees as part of the process of is terminated, any compensation payable will be reviewing executive director pay, the Committee does determined having regard to the terms of the service receive and take account of employee engagement contract between the Company and the employee, results as part of their overall assessment of executive as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
circumstances of gross misconduct or voluntary termination, the Company retains discretion to make Policy on executive directors holding external ex-gratia payments where considered reasonable and appointments fair in the Committees opinion and to cover costs solely relating to termination of employment by the Company.
With the consent of the Board, executive directors may Example costs may include legal, tax and outplacement hold one non-executive directorship in an individual services subject to such fees being fide minimis in nature capacity and will retain any fees earned.
and in the best interests of the Company.
Consideration of shareholder views Under normal circumstances, good leavers who do not serve notice are eligible to receive termination payments in When determining remuneration, the Committee also lieu of notice based on base salary and contractual benefits.
takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views.
The Committee considers these to be Normally, we expect executive directors to mitigate their of great importance and seeks to engage regularly with loss upon departure.
In any specific case that may arise, our major shareholders prior to making any material the Committee will consider carefully any compensatory decisions on pay, as it has done during the process of payments, having regard to performance, age, service, reviewing our new 2017 Policy.
health or other circumstances that may be relevant.
In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of death, injury, disability, change of control of the Company, or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits, any unvested PSP awards will normally vest at the normal time following the end of the performance period and be pro-rated for time.
However awards will vest early on death and the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest early on cessation of employment.
In this event, the Committee will determine whether the performance conditions are or 82 Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee reviews the senior Annual Remuneration Report management remuneration framework annually and The following report sets out how the Directors considers whether the existing incentive arrangements Remuneration Policy, approved at the 2014 AGM the remain appropriately challenging in the context of the 2014 Policy, was applied during the year ended business strategy, current external guidelines and a range 31 December 2016.
The full 2014 Policy can be found in of internal factors including the Remuneration Policy and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 78 of pay arrangements throughout the rest of the Group.
The the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements, which table below shows the performance measures used in is available at www.
current incentive schemes and how these align with thekey performance indicators detailed on pages 20to 21.
Single figure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 2016.
Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award.
Further information about how the level of 2016 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures section below.
The value of awards included in the table for 2016 relates to the DSP matching award and PSP awards granted in 2014, the performance period for which was the three financial years ended 31 December 2016.
This value also includes the anticipated value of dividend equivalents that will be payable in 2017.
The awards have been valued according to an estimate based on expected vesting and the 1-month average share price to 31 January 2017.
A different averaging period has been used from the basis for estimate used in the report for 2015 to give a better reflection of fair value, taking into account the Companys current share price.
These estimated figures will be updated and based on the actual values of the awards for the relevant dates in next years report.
Further information about the level of vesting is provided in the additional disclosures section below.
The value of awards included in the table for 2015 has been revised to reflect the actual value of awards vesting as noted in footnote 2, above, an estimate of the value of these awards based on the 3-month average share price to 31 December 2015 was used in the 2015 report and any dividend equivalents received in 2016 when the awards became exercisable.
The amounts shown for 2016 reflect that Adrian Gardner resigned from the Board effective from 21 September 2016 and left the Company on 30 September 2016.
The amounts shown for 2016 reflect that David Broadbent resigned from the Board on 23 February 2016 and left the Company on 7 March 2016 by reason of redundancy.
The figure quoted for his salary fees includes 198,473 as compensation for early termination 6.
Tony Hales is Senior Independent Director.
In addition to his base fee 55,000, he was paid a fee of 20,000 per annum for this additional responsibility.
John Mangelaars chaired the Technology Committee during 2016.
In addition to his base fee of 55,000, he was paid a fee of 10,000 per annum for this additional responsibility.
Richard Moat chaired the Audit and Risk Committee during 2016.
In addition to his base fee of 55,000, he was paid a fee of 15,000 per annum for this additional responsibility.
Cathryn Riley chaired the Remuneration Committee during 2016.
In addition to her base fee, of 55,000 she was paid a fee of 10,000 per annum for this responsibility.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 83 Directors remuneration report continued Additional disclosures for single figure for total remuneration table Base salary Group Profit before tax objectives As reported last year, there were no increases in the base Group profit before tax targets were set taking into salaries of executive directors in 2016, in line with a wider account the Companys operating budget and external salary freeze for all employees based in the UK.
There will forecasts for the sector.
Targets were designed to be be no increase to the base salary of the Chief Executive stretching in order to drive desired behaviours and Officer in 2017, in line with expected market practice and increase motivation and focus.
The Group profit before shareholder expectation.
tax targets adjusted for FX and level of performance Benefits achieved in 2016 were as follows: The benefits provided to the executive directors in 2016 Threshold Target Maximum Achievement Bonus pay-out included: private healthcare, life assurance, annual Target 92.3 99.0 105.4 92.6 Discretion medical, long-term disability cover and a cash allowance million million million million downwards in lieu of a company car.
None of the executive directors to threshold received total taxable benefits exceeding 8% of salary in Bonus 10% 40% 50% Between 10% 2016, and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits outcome threshold provided will exceed this level materially during the % and period in which the 2017 Policy shall apply.
target Determination of 2016 annual bonus The maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive Officer Notwithstanding the level of Group profit before tax was was 100% of salary 80% of salary for on target above the threshold target, taking into account the performance and 20% of salary for threshold recent value erosion in the company share price the performance.
Both the Chief Commercial Officer and Committee exercised its discretion to adjust the bonus the Chief Financial Officer left the Board during the downwards such that the pay-out would be limited to the course of the year and neither were eligible for an annual threshold opportunity 10% of maximum.
bonus award in respect of 2016.
As a result, details of their personal objectives and outcomes against these are not included in this report.
During 2016, a balanced scorecard approach was used for the annual bonus whereby 50% of the bonus was calculated on profit before tax and, subject always to a minimum profit threshold, the remaining 50% calculated against stretching personal performance objectives.
The award for achievement of personal performance objectives is conditional upon achievement of the profit before tax element i. e. the maximum achievable on the personal performance objectives cannot exceed the amount achieved under the profit before tax element.
The bonus outcome in respect of personal performance is determined by a performance rating assigned by the Committee having taken into account the stretch associated with the objectives set and performance against them.
Each rating is assigned a multiplier which determines the maximum bonus payable as shown in the table below.
Performance Partially Extremely Rating Ineffective effective Effective effective Outstanding 1 Multiplier 0% 27% 60% 80% 100% 1.
Applied to the maximum bonus payable in respect of personal objectives.
84 Corporate Governance Personal objectives As a consequence of the Committees exercise of negative discretion, the maximum pay-out under the personal objectives element is also limited to 10%.
The table below shows the objectives that were set for the CEO in 2016 and achievement against them.
Category Objectives Results Results Effective communication of 2015 results Communicated 2015 results in line with expectations Strategy Refresh and agree Group strategy and Strategy evolved to focus on optimising successfully implement it returns in our European home credit businesses and grow IPF Digital and Mexico home credit Successful roll out of IPF Digital into Spain and Mexico Regulatory Effective management of regulatory issues Successfully delivered a new product offering in Poland to comply with the new rate cap introduced in March 2016.
The financial impact was within the expected range Sales and Service Delivery of agreed strategy Operational issues in Mexico, partially as a consequence of new branch openings in the first half of the year, had an adverse impact on results Cost efficiency improvements achieved in European home credit businesses through the roll out of a new sales and service organisation structure Technology Successful implementation of agreed IT Roll out of MyProvi agent mobile deliverables technology app People Further embed ethics programme Continued development and Delivering engagement survey results implementation of ethics programme consistent with prior years across the Group Engagement scores consistent with previous years despite large organisational changes Having reviewed the Chief Executive Officers performance against his personal objectives and in the context of the challenges faced by the business in 2016, the Committee determined an effective performance rating.
Consequently the bonus pay-out in respect of personal objectives is 6% calculated as follows: Maximum available 10% Application of effective rating multiplier 60% Bonus pay-out for personal objectives 6% 10% x 60% Bonus outcome for 2016 The Committee awarded a bonus to the Chief Executive Officer of the amount shown below for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Total Cash and DSP Financial objectives Personal objectives DSP face value value of shares award as a achievement achievement as a of shares due to 2016 annual percentage of as a percentage of percentage of base Cash bonus vest in 2020 bonus maximum bonus base salary salary 000 000 000 available Gerard Ryan 10% 6% 27 54 81 16% The bonus is payable one-third in cash, and two-thirds in deferred shares, which will vest at the end of a three-year period, subject to the executive director not being dismissed for misconduct.
There are also provisions for clawback, with respect to the cash element of the bonus and malus with respect to the deferred elements of the bonus, as detailed on page 80. International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 85 Directors remuneration report continued Pension David Broadbent final salary The Company has two pension schemes, the Accrued pension at 31 December 2016 14,970 International Personal Finance plc Pension Scheme the Pension Scheme and the International Personal Finance Accrued pension at 31 December 2015 14,985 Stakeholder Pension Scheme the Stakeholder Scheme.
Increase in accrued pension during the New employees are eligible to join the Stakeholder year net of inflation 0 Scheme.
The rate of Company pension contribution for Directors contributions in 2016 0 the Chief Executive Officer is 20% of base salary.
David Broadbent cash balance At the discretion of the Committee, this may be paid as a cash allowance.
Accrued cash balance lump sum at The Companys contributions in respect of Gerard Ryan 31December 2016 106,721 during 2016 amounted to 88,752, all of which was paid Accrued cash balance lump sum at as a cash allowance.
31December 2015 106,828 The Companys contributions in respect of Adrian Increase in cash balance lump sum Gardner during 2016 amounted to 42,047, all of which during the year net of inflation 0 was paid as a cash allowance.
Directors contributions in 2016 0 David Broadbent was a member of the final salary David Broadbent was aged 48 at the end of the year.
He section of the Pension Scheme until 1 April 2006 when he became a deferred member of the Pension Scheme on began to accrue benefits as a member of the cash 1 August 2008. balance section.
He ceased to be a member of the cash Notes: balance section on 31 July 2008 and became a deferred 1.
The cash balance entitlement has been calculated in line with our member of the Pension Scheme.
The Companys current understanding of David Broadbents accrued benefits.
contributions in respect of David Broadbent during 2016 2.
The change in accrued pension and accrued cash balance lump sum, net of inflation, during the year reflects the fact that the relevant inflation amounted to 53,258, of which 10,000 was paid into benefit revaluation for the year uses CPI over the year to September 2015, pension arrangements and 43,258 was paid as a which was -0.1% i. e. a reduction.
Details of David Broadbents entitlements 3.
Normal retirement age is 65 for David Broadbent.
Early retirement can be under both sections of the Pension Scheme are in the taken from age 55 and the accrued final salary pension will then be reduced to take account of its early payment.
As David Broadbent did not accrue any benefits within the Pension Scheme during the year to 31 December 2016, the value of his Pension Scheme benefits under the disclosure requirements for large and medium-sized quoted companies is zero.
Long-term incentives Awards estimated to vest during 2017 included in 2016 single figure The LTIP amount included in the 2016 single figure relates to the DSP matching shares and PSP awards granted in 2014.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is shown below: DSP matching shares Projected Performance condition Weighting Threshold Maximum Achieved vesting 1 Absolute TSR growth 1 3 30% TSR over 3 60% TSR over 3 50% % years years 2 Cumulative EPS growth 1 3 6% p. a.
10% 2 Growth in revenue less impairment 1 3 5% p. a.
Based on TSR from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016.
Excludes impact of MCB acquisition.
PSP Projected Performance condition Weighting Threshold Maximum Achieved vesting 1 Absolute TSR growth 1 3 30% TSR over 3 years 60% TSR over 3 years 50% % 2 Cumulative EPS growth 1 3 6% p. a.
Based on TSR from 1 August 2014 to 31 December 2016.
As disclosed in the 2014 Policy, executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary.
50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Companys equity incentive schemes net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions must be retained until the requirement is met.
Executive directors current holdings against the guideline are disclosed on page 90.
86 Corporate Governance Awards granted during 2016 Awards were made in the financial year ending 31 December 2016 under the LTIP PSP CSOP, DSP and the SAYE.
Detail of these awards is provided below: Number of Number of Percentage PSP nil-cost CSOP Face of base End of performance Threshold Performance 1 2 3 options options value salary period vesting Weighting conditions Gerard 211,153 10,224 631,250 125% 31 December 25% 13 Absolute TSR Ryan 2018 25% 13 Cumulative EPS growth Growth in revenue 25% 13 less impairment Adrian 53,830 159,000 50% 31 December 25% 13 Absolute TSR 4 Gardner 2018 25% 13 Cumulative EPS growth 25% 13 Growth in revenue less impairment 1.
The awards are nil-cost options to acquire shares for nil consideration.
The awards are options to acquire shares for their market value at the date of grant, being 293 pence per share.
Valued using the average share price for the three days before the date of grant 23 March 2016, being 296 pence per share for the PSP options and the share price at the date of grant for the CSOP options, being 293 pence per shares.
For information, for the CSOP options, the fair value was calculated to be 5,601 for 30,000 of options being 18.7% of the grant date face value at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model.
The awards granted to Adrian Gardner have lapsed as a result of him resigning from the Board in order to pursue an alternative business opportunity on 21 September 2016. expected impact of the legislative changes in Slovakia LTIP and Poland would result in a negative cumulative annual In line with the 2014 Policy, executive directors were EPS growth rate target, based on the revised budget.
granted LTIP awards, structured as PSP and CSOP options, Therefore, it was considered more appropriate to express in March 2016.
At the time of the 2015 annual report and targets for 2016 in absolute terms.
Targets are reviewed on financial statements were signed off, the Committee had an annual basis, and the Committee may return to yet to confirm the performance targets determined for setting growth targets in the future.
EPS will be measured the performance measures in respect of the 2016 LTIP at constant budget FX rates.
The previous target for EPS awards.
This was due to the uncertainty arising from was a cumulative annual growth rate of 6% to 15% per significant legislative changes in Slovakia that came into annum.
The new target of 98 to 110 pence is equivalent force on 23 December 2015, and the introduction of a to 9% to 15.5% p. a. on reported, post-exceptional 2015 new cap on non-interest costs of credit in Poland, both of EPS.
Awards granted during 2016 will vest as follows, with which were exceptional events on the Company.
The straight-line vesting between the points: Committee did, however, subsequently provide this information by way of a supplementary note issued on Growth in Absolute Cumulative revenue less the 5 April 2016 and detail of the performance conditions TSR EPS growth impairment is included below.
The number of LTIP shares granted and Weighting 13 13 13 the associated performance conditions are set Vested at threshold 25% 25% 25% out opposite.
Performance conditions years The Committee determined that in respect of 2016 LTIP Stretch 60% over 3 110 pence 12% p. a. awards an absolute pence range for EPS should be used 100% vesting years as opposed to a cumulative annual growth percentage rate used in previous years.
This was because the International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 87 Directors remuneration report continued DSP In 2016, two-thirds of the annual bonus earned in respect of 2015 was deferred in shares and attracted performance-based matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
There are no further performance conditions attached to the vesting of the deferred shares.
The matching awards will vest only to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied, being the same three measures as set out in the LTIP section above.
The following table sets out details of awards of nil-cost options made during the year under the DSP: Amount vesting Date Face Threshold Maximum End of 1 of value performance performance performance award % of face value % of face value period Gerard Ryan 23 March 2016 Deferred: 143,831 25% 100% 31 December 2018 Matching: 143,831 2 Adrian Gardner 23 March 2016 Deferred: 64,110 25% 100% 31 December 2018 Matching: 64,110 1.
The face value was calculated using the average share price for the three days before the day of grant of 282 pence.
The matching awards granted to Adrian Gardner have lapsed as a result of him resigning from the Board in order to pursue an alternative business opportunity on 21 September 2016. insurance contributions 4,757 and employer pension SAYE contributions 58,782 paid monthly in instalments save As noted in the 2014 Policy, UK-based executive directors for part of the March 2016 employer pension are entitled to participate in the Companys tax contributions which was paid directly into his personal advantaged all-employee scheme.
The payment in lieu of notice was subject directors did not participate in the SAYE with the results to a pound for pound offset after the first six months if that no options were granted to them under the scheme alternative employment excluding one non-executive in 2016. directorship was secured during that period.
As David did secure alternative employment, his monthly Loss of office payments audited information instalments were reduced from 34,367 to 12,448 from David Broadbent and Adrian Gardner resigned as 1 September 2016 onwards.
The total amount he was directors of the Company during 2016.
The arrangements entitled to receive has reduced from 412,809 to in respect of their departure are summarised below.
Adrian Gardner In addition, he received 7,665 in respect of 6 days Adrian Gardner resigned as a director of the Company accrued but untaken holiday pay: a statutory with effect from 21 September 2016 and left the redundancy payment of 9,025: and an annual bonus Company on 30 September 2016. payment for 2015 of 82,836, paid fully in cash.
He did not receive any bonus in respect of the 2016 In accordance with the discretion reserved to it pursuant financial year and awards made to him under the PSP, to the 2014 Policy, in light of his long service and and CSOP and matching awards under the DSP granted significant contribution, the Committee exercised its to him during 2014, 2015 and 2016 lapsed in full.
discretion to permit David to retain share awards under the PSP, CSOP and matching awards under the DSP He received 6,748 in respect of 5.5 days accrued but granted to him during 2013, 2014 and 2015.
will vest on their respective normal vesting dates, subject Adrian was entitled to retain awards of deferred shares to achievement of the relevant performance conditions.
granted in 2015 and 2016 under the DSP which will vest The number of awards which vest will be reduced on a on the normal vesting dates.
He will be entitled to time pro rata basis based on the number of complete payments of dividend equivalent amounts on shares months from the date of grant of each award to vesting under the DSP in accordance with the plan rules 7 March 2016.
If applicable he will receive a payment to and 2014 Policy, under which these awards were made.
reflect the value of dividends that would have been paid on any shares that vest in accordance with the Other than the amounts and benefits disclosed above, plan rules.
Adrian was not eligible for any additional payments for loss of office.
It was agreed that David would remain in the Companys private medical scheme for 12 months from his leave David Broadbent date and be entitled to his accrued pension and cash David Broadbent resigned from the Board on balance under the International Personal Finance plc 23 February 2016 and left the Company on 7 March 2016 Pension Scheme in accordance with the plan rules.
Additionally, 3,000 plus VAT was paid to his solicitors for independent legal advice provided in connection with Pursuant to a settlement agreement made on his settlement agreement as it is a legal requirement for 23 February 2016, he was entitled to receive: a sum of such agreements to be enforceable.
Outplacement 412,809, which represented 12 months pay in lieu of assistance was also offered as part of the collective notice salary 332,168 and contractual benefits redundancy exercise.
including 12 months car allowance 16,000, life assurance contributions 1,103, permanent health 88 Corporate Governance Other than the amounts and benefits disclosed above, country boards around 80 people for this comparison, David was not eligible for any additional payments for due to the structure of the remuneration package.
CEO All employees Percentage Percentage To 31 December change 2016 vs change 2016 vs Payments to past directors audited information 2016 000 2015 2015 Other than the arrangements outlined above in respect Salary 505 % % of David Broadbent and Adrian Gardners loss of office, Benefits 25 % 0.4% no payments to any past directors were made Bonus 81 64 % 57% during 2016.
Difference due to country boards achieving bonus in 2016 that received no bonus in 2015.
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration TSR Performance graph and table The table opposite shows how the percentage change in The graph below compares the TSR of the Company with the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and bonus the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index for the between 2015 and 2016 compared with the percentage eight-year period ended 31 December 2016.
This index change in the average of each of those components of was chosen for comparison because the Company is still pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has a member of this index and has been for almost all the selected the UK senior management population plus the time since its shares were listed on 16 July 2007.
Total Shareholder Return vs FTSE 250 500 400 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 International Personal Finance FTSE 250 The table below shows the corresponding Chief Executive Officer remuneration, as well as the annual variable element award rates and long-term vesting rates against maximum over the same period.
Annual bonus CEO single figure pay-out LTIP vesting as % of of remuneration as % maximum maximum 000 opportunity opportunity 2016 Gerard Ryan 762 16% 23.3% 1 2015 Gerard Ryan 1,197 45% 58.8% 2014 Gerard Ryan 2,172 74.2% 100% 2013 Gerard Ryan 1,037 100% 2 2012 Gerard Ryan 889 80% John Harnett 718 2011 John Harnett 943 67% 2010 John Harnett 952 80% 2009 John Harnett 603 1.
The 2015 single figure has been restated to reflect the actual value of the LTIP on vesting 2015 figure used an estimated share price.
Gerard Ryan was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2012.
John Harnett resigned on 31 March 2012. International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 89 Directors remuneration report continued Relative spend on pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks: Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2016 2015 change 1 Overall expenditure on pay 177.7 154.3 15.1% Dividend paid in the year 27.4 28.6 4.2 % Share buyback 50.0 % 1.
The percentage increase at constant exchange rates is 11.2%.
Other directorships Adrian Gardner was a non-executive director of Amdocs Limited during the 2016 financial year and was permitted to retain the fee received from this position.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The interests of each person who has served as a director of the Company during the year as at 31 December 2016 together with interests held by his or her persons closely associated are shown in the table below.
A number of non-executive directors are below the shareholding requirements, which they are expected to build up within three years of appointment to the Board.
Dan OConnor, Jayne Almond and John Mangelaars are currently within this three year time period.
When both Cathryn Riley and Richard Moat bought shares they bought sufficient to meet the shareholding requirement.
Shares Options held held Vested but not yet Unvested Unvested Unvested exercisable Vested and and subject to and subject and subject and subject to exercisable, Shareholding Owned performance to deferral to continued continued but not yet required Shareholding Requirement 1 outright conditions only employment employment exercised % salary fee % salary fee met Executive directors 2 Gerard Ryan 681,635 641,349 165,212 7,777 32,079 200 289 Yes 3 Non-executive directors Jayne Almond 41,300 100 129 Yes Tony Hales 75,000 100 235 Yes John Mangelaars 100 No Richard Moat 15,000 100 47 No Cathryn Riley 14,795 100 46 No Dan OConnor 41,500 100 36 No 4 Former directors Adrian Gardner 15,000 48,401 5 David Broadbent 207,989 121,638 77,343 15,858 1.
Based on a share price of 172.3 pence, being the closing price on 30 December 2016.
Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time with 50% of all share awards vesting to be retained until the requirement is met.
Non-executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding equivalent to 100% of their directors fee within three years of appointment.
The shares owned outright by former directors are as at the date of resignation from the Board.
These shares held by David Broadbent are not subject to continued employment.
There were no changes to these interests between 31 December 2016 and 1 March 2017.
No director has notified the Company of an interest in any other shares, transactions or arrangements which requires disclosure.
The current shareholding requirements for executive and non-executive directors are described on page 78.
Adrian Gardners share options lapsed on cessation of his employment in accordance with the plan rules.
David Broadbents share options were pro-rated and lapsed on cessation of his employment in accordance with the plan rules.
The mid-market closing price of the Companys shares on 30 December 2016 was 172.3 pence and the range during 2016 was 341.2 pence to 160.6 pence.
The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the PSP, CSOP and DSP in the year totalled 1,079,311.
Shareholder context The table below summarises voting outcomes at the 2014, 2015 and 2016 AGMs % of total votes cast.
1 AGM For Against Withheld 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy 97.10% 2.90% 0.20% 2015 Annual Remuneration Report 98.90% 1.10% 5.00% 2016 Annual Remuneration Report 92.37% 7.63% 0.07% 1.
Votes withheld are not counted in the votes for or against a resolution but would be considered by the Committee in the event of a significant number of votes being withheld.
92 Corporate Governance To enable a smooth transition between the 2014 and 2017 Statement of implementation policies, the first PSP awards made under the 2017 policy will Appointment of the Chief Financial Officer be in 2018.
Justin Lockwood joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer The PSP awards granted in 2017 will be made to the executive on 23 February 2017.
His remuneration package is set out directors under the 2014 Policy, existing PSP prior to the AGM below, which follows the policy in place at the time of and awards of up to a maximum of 125% of base salary are appointment 2014 Policy.
He will transition to the 2017 Policy expected to be made.
As in 2016, performance will be assessed in the same way as the CEO, with first awards expected under against three equally weighted, independently measured the 2017 policy in 2018. metrics: one-third absolute TSR: one-third EPS growth: and one-third growth in revenue less impairment with threshold Base salary 260,000.
This is lower than Adrian Gardners vesting of 25% on each.
An award will also be made in 2017 base salary 319,000 and reflects his level of experience under the existing DSP in relation to 2016 bonus achievement.
and requirement to develop in the role.
As a result, the This will be the last DSP award to receive a match under existing Committee, in accordance with the 2014 Policy and 2017 the scheme before it is retired.
The performance ranges for PSP Policy, expect to review his salary in the upcoming years and DSP matching shares have yet to be confirmed.
The and may consider increases beyond those typically granted Committee will ensure that these are set to be stretching and to the wider workforce to achieve the desired salary level achievable taking into account all relevant data points including commensurate with the role, subject to performance.
the budget, analysts forecasts, historical performance, and Annual bonus 65% of base salary for on target incentive performance ranges at the Companys comparators, performance and 100% of base salary for maximum and the targets will be disclosed in next years report.
performance, subject to the approval of the 2017 Policy The performance measures for the year will be as per the Consideration by the directors of matters relating 2017 Policy for executive directors.
to directors remuneration PSP he will be eligible to receive a PSP award equal to 125% of base salary in the year in line with our 2014 Policy.
The following directors were members of the Remuneration The award will be subject to performance conditions set Committee when matters relating to the directors remuneration at the time of grant and a three-year performance period for the year were being discussed and are considered to and two year holding period.
be independent: Benefits provided in line with our 2014 Policy no change Cathryn Riley Chair Jayne Almond under 2017 Policy.
Tony Hales Richard Moat Pension whilst the 2014 Policy provides for a Company contribution is 20% of base salary, the Committee have The Committee received assistance from the Senior determined that he should be provided with a company Management Team and Anna Fletcher Group Senior contribution in line with the 2017 Policy, 15% of base salary, Reward Manager.
Other members of management, may as the 2017 Policy will be put to shareholder approval so attend meetings by invitation except when matters relating soon after his appointment, and it is in line with his current to their own remuneration are being discussed.
Shareholding guidelines all executive directors are required Advisor to the Committee to hold Company shares equivalent to 200% of their base The Committee undertook a competitive selection process salary.
Until this requirement is met, directors must retain net during the year following which Willis Towers Watson was of any shares sold to meet tax liability 50% of shares vesting appointed to provide independent remuneration advice.
Since from deferred bonus, PSP and exercise of options.
its appointment in April 2016, Willis Towers Watson has provided advice on remuneration matters including supporting the Directors Remuneration Policy in the following Committee with its wholesale review of remuneration policy in financial year readiness for its presentation to shareholders for a binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
During 2016 total fees in respect of advice to the The base salary for the Chief Executive Officer will remain Committee based on time and materials totalled 68,638 unchanged for 2017 at 505,000. excluding VAT.
In the period from January to March 2016, Kepler Pension and benefits are in line with benefits stated in the 2017 Associates Kepler provided advice to the Committee, the Policy table.
fees paid in respect of which was 15,000 excluding VAT.
Both WillisTowersWatson and Kepler are founding members The 2017 Policy will apply after the AGM and it is intended that of the Remuneration Consultants Group and signatories the annual bonus measured over the 2017 year will operate to, andabide by, theRemuneration Consultants Group under this policy.
Under this policy there is no change to Code of Conduct.
Further details can be found at maximum opportunity, which will remain at 100% of base salary www.
The Committeeis and the on target opportunity will be 65% of base salary.
The satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent performance measures will be 80% on financial and strategic and that neither Kepler nor Willis Towers Watson have any and 20% on personal objectives, as per the new policy rules.
connections with the Company that may impairits independence.
Targets are not disclosed on a forward-looking basis because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive, Approved by the Board in particular resulting from the fact that the majority of the Companys competitors are unlisted.
Targets will continue to be disclosed retrospectively to ensure transparency.
It is expected that the LTIP PSP and DSP matching shares Cathryn Riley awards granted to the Chief Executive Officer during 2014 Chair will vest partially in 2017.
1 March 2017 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 93
