Governance Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with Annual Statement Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The 2015 2016 year has seen excellent growth across Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013 the Group and an outstanding financial performance.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the This first class earnings improvement and increased auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts shareholder value creation reflect well on the of the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, successful efforts of the Executive Directors.
In those parts of the report have been properly prepared addition the strategic development of JD in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the internationally and its performance here is most Annual Report on Remuneration that are subject to encouraging for the future.
audit are indicated in that report.
The Senior Managers directly below the Board The Committee keeps under review the remuneration continue to demonstrate great ability, commitment, policy and specific remuneration packages for the consistency and energy.
They represent a strong core Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
The management team led by the Executive Chairman that Committee is mindful that our Group operates in a is driving the business forward.
highly competitive retail environment and we seek to ensure that our remuneration policy is appropriate to Annual bonus awards for the Executive Directors attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and reflect this exceptional company performance.
Senior Managers of the right calibre to ensure the The Senior Managers are also rewarded appropriately success of the Company into the future.
The Remuneration Committee Committee has focused on ensuring Summary of Activity that our policies and actions are appropriate for our Agreeing bonus awards for the Executive Directors business and that they balance the rewards to our and annual bonus and long term incentive plan for Executive Directors for delivering first class financial Senior Managers in relation to the period 2015 2016. performance with our medium long term strategic Reviewing the basic salary of the Executive goals to create long term value for our shareholders.
Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer to ensure these are appropriate for the market in which we We believe in rewarding our Executives based on their operate.
With effect from 1 April 2016, the individual and team performance and on the value Committee has agreed that the basic salary reviews created for the shareholders.
Our annual bonus detailed on page 81 will be implemented.
The salary scheme combines financial targets with medium increases equate to a 1.5% increase for the long term strategic objectives.
A new Long Term Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer Incentive Plan LTIP was approved at the Annual which is in line with the general increase for our General Meeting on 26 June 2014 which is based on Head Office employees.
the achievement of earnings based financial targets Reviewing the annual bonus awards for the year over a three year period.
The first awards under the to 30 January 2016, which are set out on page 79, LTIP were made to the Executive Chairman and the and setting appropriate targets for the 2016 17 Chief Financial Officer in 2014. financial year.
These are based on a combination of financial and non-financial Key Performance This Directors Remuneration Report Report is on Indicators KPIs linked to key strategic objectives the activities of the Committee for the period to 30 which are intended to reward our Executive January 2016.
It sets out the remuneration policy and Directors for performance and provide alignment remuneration details for the Executive and Nonwith shareholder interests.
Executive Directors of the Company.
There are three sections: This Annual Statement.
The Policy Report setting out the Directors remuneration policy: and The Annual Report on Remuneration providing Andrew Leslie details on how the Directors remuneration policy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be operated for 2016 2017 and the 13 April 2016 remuneration earned in the year to 30 January 2016.
This Annual Report on Remuneration together with the Annual Statement will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
73 73 73 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Unaudited This Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 26 June 2014 and will, subject to any amendment, remain in force for a period of three years.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made to Directors if they are consistent with the approved Directors remuneration policy.
However, commitments made before the Directors remuneration policy came into effect and commitments made before an individual became a Director will be honoured even if they are inconsistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Policy Overview The Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment and the Committee seeks to ensure that the level and form of remuneration is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the right calibre to ensure the success of the Company into the future.
Remuneration should be aligned with the key corporate metrics that drive earnings growth and increased shareholder value with significant emphasis on performance related pay measured over the longer term.
Incentive arrangements for Executive Directors should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related elements and be capable of providing exceptional levels of total payment if outstanding performance is achieved.
Approved Remuneration Policy Table Executive Directors Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary To provide competitive fixed level Base salaries for the Executive Directors The policy of the Committee is that Not applicable remuneration to attract and retain are reviewed annually by the Committee.
the salaries of the Executive Directors Executive Directors of the necessary should be reviewed annually, although The following factors are taken into calibre to execute the Groups strategy it reserves the right to review salaries account when determining base and deliver shareholder value.
on a discretionary basis if it believes an salary levels: adjustment is required to reflect market R emuneration levels at compararates or performance.
ble quoted UK retail companies.
There is no prescribed maximum The need f or salaries to be annual increase.
guided by the general increase for the The perf ormance of the individual broader employee population but on Executive Director.
occasions may need to recognise, for Experience and responsibilities.
example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role as well as P ay for other employees in market rates.
The t otal remuneration available to the Executive Directors and the components thereof and the cost to the Company.
Benefits To ensure the overall package is Current benefits provision is detailed The Committee determines the approNot applicable competitive for Executive Directors.
on page 79. priate level taking into account market practice and individual circumstances.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate including health insurance, life insurance death in service, travel expenses and relocation.
Pension To provide post-retirement benefits Payments are made into a defined The rates are set at a level which the Not applicable for Executive Directors.
contribution scheme with company Committee considers is appropriate.
contributions set as a percentage of Current company contribution rates base salary.
for Executive Directors are shown The Committee has the discretion on page 79. to pay a cash amount in lieu of a pension contribution any such payment would not count for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual Bonus Executive Directors have the The bonus is paid annually in cash 100% of salary, however, the The targets are set by the Committee opportunity to earn performance and is non-pensionable.
Committee has the discretion each year and are based on a related bonuses based on the to award bonuses of up to combination of financial and strategic No claw back provisions apply.
achievement of financial targets and 200% of salary for exceptional KPIs, with target and maximum levels.
key performance indicators which performance.
At least two thirds of the annual bonus incentivise the achievement of the will be linked to financial targets.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the targets in the event of significant corporate activity during the year.
The Committee will review the Groups overall performance before determining final bonus levels.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances amend the bonus payout should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect the overall business performance or individual contribution.
Targets will be disclosed in the following years Annual Report.
Long Term Incentive Plans To provide the Executive Directors A new LTIP was approved at the 2014 150% to 200% of base salary.
The LTIP will measure financial with the opportunity to earn AGM.
The level of any awards under performance over a 3 year period with competitive rewards.
the LTIP remains under the targets based on headline earnings Key features of the LTIP are: consideration of the during that period.
To align the Executive Directors Cash awards not shares.
interests more closely with those 25% of any award will vest at Three year performance period.
threshold performance increasing on a The perf ormance condition can be straightline basis to 100% for maximum To focus the Executive Directors amended or substituted if events performance.
on sustaining and improving the occur which cause the Committee long-term financial performance Targets will be disclosed in to consider that an amended or of the Company and reward them the annual accounts for substituted performance target appropriately for doing so.
the year following a performance would be more appropriate.
Any amended or substituted target would not be materially more or less difficult to satisfy.
Malus pr ovisions apply to unvested awards.
The Committee can reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on the awards where it considers such action is appropriate.
This includes where there has been a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results, a serious failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
75 75 75 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Non-Executive Director Fees Set at a level which the Committee Cash fee paid.
Additional fees based The policy of the Committee is that the None considers reflects the time on additional responsibilities, such as fees paid to Non-Executive Directors commitment and contributions acting as Senior Independent Director should be reviewed annually, although that are expected from the or serving as Chairman of Board it reserves the right to review fees Non-Executive Directors.
on a discretionary basis if it believes an adjustment is required to reflect Fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
market rates, scope of responsibilities The Non-Executive Directors do not or performance.
There is no prescribed participate in the Companys incentive maximum annual increase.
arrangements and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Reasonable travel and subsistence expenses may be paid or reimbursed by the Company.
Share Ownership Guidelines If it were necessary to attract the right candidate, The Company does not have a minimum share ownership due consideration would be given to making awards requirement for the Executive Directors.
Given our necessary to compensate for forfeited awards in narrow shareholder base, the Committee considers a previous employment.
In making any such award, it impractical to set realistic shareholding targets.
the Committee will take into account any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the form Consideration of Shareholder Views in which they were granted and the timeframe of the The Committee engages directly with major shareholders forfeited awards.
The value of any such award will be on key aspects of the remuneration policy and will take capped to be no higher on recruitment than the forfeited into consideration feedback received in relation to the awards and will not be pensionable nor count for the AGM or otherwise when next reviewing the policy.
purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
The Committee retains the right to exercise the discretion Consideration of Employee Conditions Elsewhere available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 where necessary in the Group to put in place an arrangement established Remuneration arrangements are determined specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, throughout the Group based on the same principle the recruitment of a new Executive Director.
Where that reward should be achieved for delivery of our appropriate the Company will offer to pay reasonable business strategy and should be sufficient to attract relocation expenses for new Executive Directors.
and retain high calibre talent, without paying more than is necessary.
In respect of an internal promotion to the Board, any commitments made before the promotion will Senior Managers below Board level with a significant continue to be honoured even if they would otherwise ability to influence company results may participate be inconsistent with the Directors remuneration in an annual bonus plan and deferred bonus plan policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
which reward both performance and loyalty and are designed to retain and motivate.
Service Contracts and Payments for Loss of Office Details of the contracts currently in place for Approach to Recruitment Remuneration Executive Directors are as follows: In the event that a new Executive Director was to be appointed, a remuneration package would be Date of Contract Notice Period Months Unexpired Term determined consistent with the Directors remuneration P Cowgill 16 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months policy.
In particular, new Executive Directors will participate in variable remuneration arrangements B Small 10 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months on the same basis as existing Executive Directors.
In the event that a new Non-Executive Director was It is the Companys policy that notice periods for to be appointed, the fees payable would be determined Executive Director service contracts are no more than consistent with the Directors remuneration policy.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued In the event of early termination, the Company may Where cessation of employment is due to death, make a termination payment not exceeding one years the LTIP award will, unless the Committee determine salary and benefits.
Incidental expenses may also be otherwise, vest as soon as reasonably practicable payable where appropriate.
It is in the discretion of the following death.
Where the Executive Director is Committee as to whether departing Directors would be dismissed lawfully without notice, the LTIP award paid a bonus.
In exercising its discretion on determining will lapse on the date of cessation.
the amount payable to an Executive Director on termination of employment, the Board would consider In all other circumstances the LTIP award will lapse each instance on an individual basis and take into on the date of cessation of employment unless the account contractual terms, circumstances of the Committee determines otherwise, in which case it termination and the commercial interests of the will determine the extent to which the unvested LTIP Company.
When determining whether a bonus or any award vest taking into account the extent to which other payment should be made to a departing Director, the performance target is satisfied at the end of the the Committee will ensure that no reward for failure is performance period or, as appropriate, on the date made.
The Committee may make a payment to on which employment ceases.
The period of time a departing Director for agreeing to enter into that has elapsed since the start of the performance enhanced restrictive covenants following termination period to the date of cessation of employment will where it considers that it is in the best interests of also be taken into account unless the Committee the Company to do so.
In the event of gross misconduct, the Company may In the event of a change of control, LTIP awards will terminate the service contract of an Executive Director vest at the date of change of control other than in immediately and with no liability to make further respect of an internal reorganisation unless the payments other than in respect of amounts accrued Committee determines otherwise.
at the date of termination.
Non-Executive Directors The current Executive Director service contracts The Non-Executive Directors have entered into permit the Company to put an Executive Director on letters of appointment with the Company which garden leave for a maximum period of three months.
are terminable by the Non-Executive Director or The Company may adjust such period as deemed the Company on not less than three months notice.
appropriate for any new Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directorships The Executive Director service contracts contain The Board recognises that Executive Directors may a change of control provision whereby if 50% or more be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other of the shares in the Company come under the direct businesses and that the knowledge and experience or indirect control of a person or persons acting in which they gain in those appointments could be of concert, an Executive Director may serve notice on benefit to the Company.
Prior approval of the Board is the Company, at any time within the 12 month period required before acceptance of any new appointments.
following a change of control, terminating his employment.
Upon termination in these circumstances, During the year to 30 January 2016, only Peter Cowgill an Executive Director will be entitled to a sum equal held other Non-Executive Directorships, as a to 112% of his basic salary less deductions required Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets Group Plc.
by law and such Executive Director waives any claim Peter Cowgill has aggregate retained earnings of for wrongful or unfair dismissal.
The Company does 42,500 2015: 53,909 in respect of these offices.
not envisage such a provision being contained in any service contracts for any new Executive Directors.
Illustrations of Application of Remuneration Policy The chart overleaf illustrates the level of remuneration The service contracts and letters of appointment that would be received by the Executive Directors in are available for inspection by shareholders at the accordance with the Directors remuneration policy in forthcoming AGM and during normal business the year to 28 January 2017. hours at the Companys registered office address.
Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount LTIP of remuneration payable at target performance and Where cessation of employment is due to ill-health, remuneration payable at maximum performance injury, disability or the sale of the employing entity to each Director under the policy.
Each of the bars out of the group, the unvested LTIP award will is broken down to show how the total under each continue.
It will continue to vest in accordance scenario is made up of fixed elements of with the original vesting date unless the Committee remuneration and variable remuneration.
determines that it should vest as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of cessation.
77 77 77 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Fixed elements of remuneration Variable element of remuneration LTIP LTIP scheme approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM 2,500 2,250 2,004k 2,000 1,750 24% 1,500 1,260k 1,250 10% 38% 1,000 30% 759k 707k 750 18% 479k 500 7% 37% 316k 27% 100% 60% 38% 250 100% 66% 45% 0 Minimum On targetMaximum Minimum On targetMaximum P. Cowgill Executive Chairman B.
Small Chief Financial O cer The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Minimum On target performance Maximum performance Fixed Elements of The base salary is the salary as at 1 April 2016 Remuneration The benefits are taken as those in the single figure table on page 79 The pension contribution for Brian Small Annual Bonus 1 0% 50% 100% Long Term Incentive Plan 2 0% 25% 150% to 200% 1.
The maximum annual bonus has been based on the usual maximum award of 100% of salary.
The new LTIP was adopted at the 2014 AGM.
On target performance is 25% of salary.
Maximum performance is 150% of salary in the case of Brian Small and 200% of salary in the case of Peter Cowgill.
One third of the award would be earned in the year to 28 January 2017 subject to the performance conditions being met and the rules of the scheme.
Salary reviews effective 1 April annually 2.
In accordance with the remuneration policy 26,000 2015: 23,000 of the pension contribution shown above for Brian Small has been paid as a cash amount 3.
Includes payment for compensation for loss of office 4.
Barry Bown stepped down as Chief Executive on 30 May 2014 5.
Heather Jackson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 6 May 2015 The taxable benefits received by the Executive Directors are car benefits and healthcare insurance.
Pension contributions are: Peter Cowgill 0% of salary Brian Small - 12% of salary Barry Bown - 8% of salary contribution ended May 2014 Statement of Directors Shareholding Audited The interests of the Directors who held office at 30 January 2016 and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below: Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each 30 January 2016 31 January 2015 P Cowgill 1,661,052 1,641,052 B Small 95,800 95,800 1,756,852 1,736,852 There has been no change in the interests of the Directors or their connected persons between 30 January 2016 and the date of this report.
The holdings stated above are held directly by the Directors and are not subject to any performance targets.
The Directors have no other interests in Company shares.
As stated in the Directors remuneration policy, the Company does not have a minimum share ownership requirement for Directors.
Given our narrow shareholder base, the Committee considers it impractical to set realistic shareholding targets.
79 79 79 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Scheme Interests Awards During the Year Audited Executive Chairmans Remuneration Over Past Following approval of the LTIP at the 2014 AGM, Peter 5 years Audited Cowgill was granted a cash award of up to 1,463,700 The total remuneration figures for the Executive being 200% of base salary subject to satisfaction Chairman during each of the last 5 financial years of annual audited earnings based performance targets are shown in the table below.
The total remuneration for the Group over a three year period.
Brian Small was figure includes the annual bonus based on that years granted a cash award of up to 382,500 being 150% performance and LTIP awards based on three year of base salary on the same basis.
The target for the performance periods ending in the relevant financial period 2015 2016 was 83.1m threshold earnings with year.
The annual bonus payout and LTIP vesting level a maximum payment being achieved where earnings as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also of 91.4m are achieved with straight line vesting shown for each of these years.
Threshold earnings are the consolidated earnings on a normalised basis pre-exceptional and Year ended January 2012 January 2013 January 2014 January 2015 January 2016 goodwill as represented in the audited accounts for Total remuneration the period.
In the interests of commercial confidence 2,293 2,045 3,137 1,951 2,728 000 the targets for subsequent years based on threshold 200 Annual bonus % 75 37 100 100 earnings will be disclosed one year in arrears.
LTIP vesting % 100 100 n a n a n a Total Shareholder Return The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Whilst the LTIP performance target for the first year has been Return TSR of the Group in comparison to the achieved, final vesting is dependent on the performance FTSE All Share General Retailers Index over the past measured over the three year period to 28 January 2017. seven years.
The Committee consider the FTSE Subject to the performance criteria being achieved over the All Share General Retailers Index a relevant index full three year period, the award will vest on 30 October 2017. for total shareholder return comparison disclosure required under the Regulations as the index Percentage Change in Executive Chairmans represents the broad range of UK quoted retailers.
Remuneration Unaudited The table below shows the percentage change in the TSR is calculated for each financial year end relative Executive Chairmans salary, benefits and annual to the base date of 31 January 2009 by taking the bonus between financial years 31 January 2015 and percentage change of the market price over the 30 January 2016 compared to UK Head Office relevant period, re-investing any dividends at the employees in the JD and Size?
deemed by the Board as the most appropriate comparator group.
JD Sports Fashion Plc % change FTSE All Share General Retailers Index Salary 2,600% Executive Chairman 1.5 UK Head Office Employee average 3.8 2,400% Benefits 2,200% Executive Chairman - 2,000% UK Head Office Employee average - 1,800% Annual Bonus Executive Chairman 200.0 1,600% UK Head Office Employee average 7.0 1,400% 1,200% Comparator group as defined above.
There are circa 1,015 employees within this group.
1,000% 800% 600% 400% 200% 0% 31 01 09 31 01 10 31 01 11 31 01 12 31 01 13 31 01 14 31 01 15 31 01 16 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Relative Importance of Spend on Pay Unaudited The Committee can obtain independent advice at the The following table shows the Groups actual spend Companys expense where they consider it appropriate on pay for all employees relative to dividends, tax and in order to perform their duties.
No such advice and retained profits: was obtained during 2015 16.
The Committee is formally constituted with written 2016 2015 % Change Terms of Reference, which are available on the Staff costs 000 267,994 237,620 12.8 Companys corporate website www.
Dividends 000 13,820 13,260 4.2 The Committee engages with the major shareholders or other representative groups where appropriate Tax 000 31,001 20,741 49.5 concerning remuneration matters.
Retained profits 000 100,630 53,971 86.5 The Committee is mindful of the Companys social, Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy ethical and environmental responsibilities and is in 2016 17 Unaudited satisfied that the current remuneration arrangements and policies do not encourage irresponsible behaviour.
Salaries Following this years review, the Committee has The Committee has met three times during the year determined that salaries for the current year will under review with each member attending all the be revised as follows with effect from 1 April 2016: meetings.
Details of attendance at the Committee meetings are set out on page 69.
Previous New Position Against Salary Salary Percentage Comparator Statement of Voting at General Meeting Unaudited 000 000 Increase Group At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report P Cowgill 747 758 1.5% Upper Quartile received the following votes from shareholders: B Small 260 264 1.5% Lower Quartile 2015 AGM % Votes cast for 158,003,113 88.08 The Comparator Group for these purposes is the Votes cast against 21,383,416 11.92 FTSE 350 companies.
Total votes cast 179,386,529 The salary increases for P Cowgill and B Small are Votes withheld 310,174 in line with the general salary increase for Head Office employees.
This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board.
Annual Bonus Performance Targets The targets in respect of the annual bonus for the financial year to 30 January 2016 were 104 million threshold earnings with a maximum payment being achieved where earnings are 115 million.
The Board Andrew Leslie considers that the targets for the financial year Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to 28 January 2017 are commercially sensitive and 13 April 2016 so will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.
Consideration by Directors of Matters Relating to Directors Remuneration Unaudited The Committee comprises three independent NonExecutive Directors, being Andrew Leslie, Martin Davies and Heather Jackson.
Andrew Leslie was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee on 1 October 2013.
The Committee assists the Board in determining the Groups policy on Executive Directors remuneration and determines the specific remuneration packages for Senior Executives, including the Executive Directors, on behalf of the Board.
Peter Cowgill, the Executive Chairman and Brian Small, the Chief Financial Officer, have assisted the Committee when requested with regards to matters concerning key Executives below Board level.
