Governance Directors Remuneration Report Contents of Directors Remuneration Report The Directors' Remuneration Report 43 Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee DRR is the Boards report to 45 Remuneration Committee shareholders on directors remuneration 46 Statement of shareholder voting for year ending December 2016 and is 47 Part 1: Policy Report in three main sections: 56 Part 2 Annual Statement on Remuneration 56 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director 61 2.2 Pension and life assurance benefits The Boards Report 61 2.3 Long Term Plan interests awarded during the year Includes the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 61 2.4 Payments to past directors reflecting on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the 62 2.5 Payments for loss of office year ending December 2016, and future application of the Directors 62 2.6 Statement of directors' shareholding and share interests Remuneration Policy.
This section also provides details of the 64 2.7 TSR performance summary & Chief Executive remuneration Remuneration Committee and the statement of shareholder voting.
64 2.8 Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration Read more on page 43 65 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay 2.10 Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the Part 1: Policy Report 65 following financial year Contains the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Read more on page 47 Audited Unless otherwise noted, the remaining sections of the Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration Sets out the remuneration details of the executive and non-executive directors and includes a summary of the key considerations and decisions taken by the Committee on directors remuneration during the year ending December 2016.
Read more on page 56 42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Boards Report We have been mindful to ensure the retrospective disclosure of achievement of these objectives is detailed, measured and transparent.
Annual bonuses of 42.6% are being awarded to executive directors.
Details are contained in section 2 of this report.
The 2016 Group performance also contributed to a low LTIP pay-out for the performance period 2014-2016.
AEPS did not meet threshold performance resulting in zero award for this measure.
EBITA for the heritage businesses of WGPSN, WGM and WGK did not meet threshold performance, also resulting in zero award for this performance measure.
However, I am delighted to report that we were top of our th Total Shareholder Return TSR peer group, achieving 100 percentile, reflecting the decisive and robust actions taken on cost and the resilience and flexibility of our business model.
This resulted in a maximum 25% of total award on this performance measure for all participants.
Policy review During the course of 2016, in preparation for our second shareholder vote on policy at the 2017 AGM, the Committee has undertaken a full Jeremy Wilson Chair, Remuneration Committee review of remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
In addition to considering the wider political environment regarding executive Letter from the Chair pay, we actively engaged with our shareholders, seeking views on the proposed policy changes and application.
We wrote to key shareholders Dear Shareholder on two occasions and welcomed the opportunity to have additional I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the detailed dialogue with a number of them.
We have also engaged with year ending 31 December 2016, including our proposed Directors voting institutions to better understand the views and expectations Remuneration Policy which is subject to shareholder approval at the of their members.
In direct response to the feedback we propose to 2017 Annual General Meeting.
defer 100% of LTIP awards for a full two years following the end of the The purpose of this report is to set out the remuneration of executive three year performance period for executive directors and increase directors and demonstrate how the Committee has ensured it is aligned shareholding requirements for the Chief Executive.
We had considered to delivery of the Groups short and long term strategic objectives and increasing employer pension contributions as current arrangements, our shareholders interests, whilst adhering to corporate governance 15% of salary, were identified as being below what is typical in the and associated regulations.
wider market for executives and our peer group.
However, having listened to shareholder feedback, the Committee determined that I was appointed Chair of the Committee in May 2016, succeeding this change was not appropriate.
I believe this truly demonstrates our David Woodward, who provided great leadership of the Committee commitment to meaningful shareholder engagement.
A key focus for me in undertaking this role has been to the policy changes and subsequent application for 2017 are detailed ensure the Committee is thoughtfully and prudently overseeing all on page 44. aspects of executive remuneration in a time of great economic and political change and uncertainty.
I have also engaged proactively We were also pleased to note that Wood Group is already applying with shareholders to ensure we take into account their views many of the recommendations in the Executive Remuneration Working and expectations when determining the remuneration policy and Groups final report and we have continued to focus on disclosure, application for the executive directors.
particularly around non-financial measures for the annual bonus plan.
When carrying out the policy review, the Committee applied the Remuneration and performance outcomes for 2016 following principles: In setting targets for the 2016 annual bonus and Long Term Incentive Alignment with strategy and delivery of shareholder value - Plan LTIP 2016-2018 performance period, we considered the continuing challenging market conditions in the oil and gas sector and ensuring the remuneration policy and principles support the needs the uncertainty that these conditions bring.
We were also mindful to of our business over the next few years and our strategy to focus on support the long term success of the Group by ensuring the retention growth both organic and acquisitive and cost savings in order to and incentivisation of a team of high calibre executive directors create long term value for our shareholders in the context of an oil and and other senior leaders, focused on delivering long term value to gas market that remains challenging.
We aim to link pay to performance shareholders, strengthening the organisation, providing excellent by ensuring there is a strong alignment with Group objectives.
service to our customers and keeping our people safe.
Simplicity and balance - in order to be effective in supporting The financial performance of the Group in 2016 reflected lower motivation and retention, arrangements must be understandable for volumes and pricing pressure.
The impact on EBITA was offset by participants as well as clear and transparent to our shareholders.
our continued focus on managing costs, together with the significant We aim to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable impact of one off benefits and the contribution from bolt on pay in the context of risk considerations and long term sustainable acquisitions completed in 2015.
The Group delivered EBITA of $363m value creation.
Our executive directors remuneration has four in line with expectations, down 22.8% on 2015.
Adjusted EPS of components made up of base salary, benefits and pension, annual 64.1c was down 23.7%.
DSO targets were bonus plan, and long term incentive plan.
Over the last few years not achieved.
As a Committee, we focused on establishing stretching we have significantly simplified the operation of our incentive plans, non-financial objectives, with tangible performance outcomes focused applying consistency to all participants.
on the delivery of the Groups short term strategic plans.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Board's Report Internally fair, externally competitive - ensuring executive directors' Proposed policy application for 2017 base salary reflect wider employee increases: we use external data The following section details the changes which we plan to make to inform our thinking and ensure remuneration decisions support in implementing our policy in 2017: in summary these support our attraction, retention and incentivisation of our executive directors.
philosophy of maintaining lower fixed pay alongside opportunity on variable pay which we believe aligns better with our shareholders Shareholder engagement - the Committee is mindful of shareholder interests and incentivises executive directors to drive performance and expectations in respect of executive pay and actively takes this into deliver greater value through execution of the business strategy.
account when developing remuneration arrangements.
Base salary - 2017 salaries will remain unchanged.
When we initially determined salaries for the new Chief Executive and Chief Financial Proposed changes to the policy Officer, we took into account that they were new to their role, and We have proposed changes to the policy, which we believe continues to set them below the previous incumbents and those of similar roles meet our remuneration principles whilst offering flexibility and discretion in companies of comparable size and complexity.
This also reflected to adapt to changing business needs.
We propose to: our desire to lower fixed pay and increase the variable opportunity.
X Defer 100% of awards achieved under the Long Term Incentive We specifically intended to review base salaries in 2017, but given Plan for a period of at least two years following the end of the three the challenging macro environment, have determined that this is not year performance period i. e. a total of 5 years from the year of the appropriate.
It is our intention in 2018 to review, and if appropriate, award being granted.
Previously 20% of any award was held in nil increase base salaries in recognition of the executive directors' cost share options for an additional two years following the end of development in their roles, taking into account their performance and the three year performance period.
We trust this demonstrates our contribution to delivering the Group's strategic objectives.
commitment to increasing overall time horizons and the Groups Annual Bonus Plan - we have revised the annual bonus plan design focus on long term value creation to encourage stretching performance.
Payout at target will be reduced X Increase shareholding guidelines to 200% of salary for the Chief to 50% of maximum award: previously payout at target was 70% of Executive from 150% of salary : they will remain at 100% for the maximum.
Given our desire to maintain low fixed pay with greater Chief Financial Officer and any other executive director.
The increase opportunities to earn variable pay, maximum bonus opportunities for to the Chief Executive's shareholding requirement further strengthens 2017 will be 175% of salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of salary the alignment of remuneration with the creation of long term value for for the Chief Financial Officer.
The current maximum under the Policy of our shareholders 200% of salary will remain unchanged.
X For performance periods commencing in 2017, deferral of the Long Term Plan - in line with our philosophy on the balance between Annual Bonus Plan will be at least 25% reduced from 50% : fixed and variable pay as described, we will increase the maximum deferral will continue to be for a two year period.
We believe this opportunity for awards made under the LTIP to 200% of salary for brings our policy and operation of the plan in line with the wider the Chief Executive, from 150% in 2016, and to 160% for the Chief market and other companies in our sector.
Whilst this will mean a Financial Officer, from 125% in 2016.
There is no proposed change reduction in the percentage deferred for awards made under our to the maximum award as set out in the Remuneration Policy.
Annual Bonus Plan, this is accompanied by the increased deferral As described earlier in this letter, no portion of these awards may now of awards made under our Long Term Plan described above: this is be released until five years from grant.
The proposed changes reinforce expected to result in a higher proportion of awards being deferred the Groups focus on creating value for shareholders over the long term for a longer period of time by linking a substantial portion of executive directors remuneration to X Enable executive directors to participate in the Employee Share long term performance.
EPS and relative TSR will be the performance Plan ESP, an all-employee share plan which was approved by measures in our long term plans as the Committee considers these shareholders in 2015.
This is an update to the previous Policy measures are well aligned to our strategy and shareholders interest.
which did not enable executive directors to enrol in the ESP We will apply a balance of 50% EPS and 50% TSR as we believe this as the plan was not in place when the Policy was approved by is most suited to the cyclical nature of Wood Groups business, as it shareholders in 2013 puts some weighting on our performance relative to our peer group.
X Increase the aggregate maximum for non-executive remuneration We will, of course, continue to ensure that targets are stretching and to 1,000,000 in the Articles of Association to allow for additional focused on delivering value.
Board members As always, the Committee seeks and welcomes shareholder feedback.
Should you wish to get in touch please email the Secretary to the Committee, Claire Yule.
I trust that in the report for 2016 we have clearly explained our application and intentions regarding future implementation of the Groups Directors Remuneration Policy and I look for your support on the relevant resolutions.
Jeremy Wilson Chair, Remuneration Committee 44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee meetings in 2016 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on executive remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of each of the executive directors within the approved policy.
The Committee has a Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec written charter, which is reviewed annually and is publicly available on 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 the Groups website.
Read the Remuneration Committee charter at: During 2016, the Committee met four times to discuss remuneration www.
com  issues and the operation of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
There was full Committee attendance at each of these meetings.
The Committee considered the following matters during 2016: During 2016, the Remuneration Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors: David Woodward, Jeremy Wilson, Mary Shafer-Malicki and Jann Brown.
David Woodward was Q1 Chair of the Committee until retiring and stepping down from the X Target setting for ABP 2016 and LTIP performance period Board at the AGM on 11 May 2016.
Jeremy WiIson was appointed as 2016- 2018 Chair following David Woodwards retirement and Jann Brown joined X Agreed final outcomes for ABP 2015 and LTIP 2013-2015 the Committee in May 2016. performance period Where appropriate, the Committee receives input from the Group X Agreed 2016-2018 LTIP participants Chair, Chief Executive, Group CFO, Executive President of People & X Approved 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Organisation and the Group Head of Compensation & Benefits, X Agreed Directors Remuneration Policy review framework for who also acts as Secretary to the Committee.
annual report 2016 AGM 2017 The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall remuneration X AGM preparation structure which will: X Promote the long term success of the Group and deliver the Q2 strategy X Annual bonus Q1 performance update X Create a competitive total remuneration package that supports X 2016 annual bonus objectives agreed recruitment, retention and motivation of executive directors, through a balance of fixed and variable pay X Policy review update, including update on Executive Remuneration Working Group X Reflect the size and complexity of the Groups business X Take account of executives individual responsibilities and Q3 geographical location X Policy review: considered recommendations, potential application X Align executive remuneration with the Groups long term strategy, and proposed shareholder consultation process maximising the interests of shareholders X Agreed approach to DRR 2016 for AGM 2017 X Take into account the broader setting of pay conditions elsewhere within Wood Group X LTIP review In setting remuneration policy the Committee gives full consideration to the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Q4 relevant regulations enacted under the Companies Act 2006.
X Directors Remuneration policy review shareholder consultation update, and consideration of policy and application proposals During the year, the Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP, who was retained as external advisor to the Committee.
Deloitte adhere X Reviewed annual bonus projected outcomes for 2016 and agreed to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
Deloitte process for determining achievement against 2016 objectives received 63,750 for the provision of services to the Committee during X Considered annual bonus arrangements for 2017 the year.
These fees consisted of core services where the cost was X Reviewed estimated LTIP performance for 2014-2016 agreed in advance and additional services which were charged on performance period a time and materials basis.
As well as advising the Remuneration X Considered arrangements for 2017-2019 performance period Committee, Deloitte provided other services in 2016, predominately related to tax compliance and advisory.
The Committee has reviewed X Completed Committee performance evaluation against 2016 the remuneration advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is objectives and agreed proposed 2017 objectives comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee X Reviewed Committee charter for 2017 has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Board's Report Statement of shareholder voting The Committee encourages shareholder engagement.
Where there are a substantial number of votes against any resolution on directors remuneration, the Committee would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail here any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out the 2015 AGM voting in respect of our remuneration matters: Number of a Item For Against b Abstentions Advisory vote on the 248,441,885 25,598,702 21,108,315 2015 annual report on 90.66% 9.34% Remuneration 2016 AGM Notes to the Statement of shareholding voting a Discretionary votes have been added to For votes.
b A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the percentage of votes For or Against a resolution.
46 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Part 1: Policy Report Introduction This part of the Directors The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide a compensation package that promotes the long term success of the Group and Remuneration Report contains the supports the Groups strategy.
It does this through a balance of fixed and variable pay, with the intent of creating a competitive total directors remuneration policy.
remuneration package which attracts and retains executives while creating an appropriate alignment between incentivising executive In accordance with section 439A performance and the interests of shareholders.
of the Companies Act, a binding Changes to policy shareholder resolution to approve Whilst the existing policy supports the remuneration principles of the this policy report will be proposed Group, the Chair of the Committee consulted with key shareholders during 2016 to gather feedback on the future policy proposals at the 2017 AGM.
It is intended and subsequent application for 2017 and beyond.
The Committee that this policy takes effect from the considered shareholder views and the wider political environment regarding executive pay when determining the final policy proposals, date of the 2017 AGM, subject to a summary of which is set out below: shareholder approval.
This policy X It is proposed to defer 100% of awards achieved under the Long Term Incentive Plan for a period of at least two years following the will replace in full the policy set out end of the three year performance period i. e. a total of 5 years in the 2013 Annual Report, which from the year of the award being granted.
Previously 20% of any award was held in nil cost share options for an additional two years was approved by shareholders at following the end of the three year performance period.
If approved, the the Groups focus on long term value creation for shareholders Committee will then put a policy to X Shareholding guidelines have been added to the policy, increasing to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive from 150% of salary : shareholders again no later than the they will remain at 100% for the Chief Financial Officer and any other executive director 2020 AGM.
X Deferral of the Annual Bonus Plan ABP is proposed to be at least 25% reduced from 50% : the deferral period will continue to be for a two year period.
The Committee considers this brings the operation of the plan in line with the wider market and peer group.
X An addition to the policy enabling executive directors to participate in the Employee Share Plan ESP, the rules of which were approved by shareholders in 2015.
This is an all-employee share plan aimed at encouraging share ownership across the Group.
The previous policy did not enable executive directors to enrol in the ESP as it was not in place when the policy was approved by shareholders in 2013 X The aggregate maximum for non-executive directors remuneration is proposed to increase from 500,000 to 1,000,000 in the Articles of Association to allow for additional Board members X Reference to legacy LTP plans has been removed from the policy namely LTIP performance periods ending December 2014 and LTRP 2003-2013.
No further awards will be made under these plans and existing awards will vest prior to the date of the 2017 AGM John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 1: Policy Report Remuneration policy for executive directors Our executive directors remuneration is made up of fixed and variable reward with four components: base salary, benefits and pension, annual bonus plan ABP and long term incentive plan LTIP.
The following policy table summarises the Remuneration Policy in relation to these components.
Full details of the application of this policy are contained in the Annual Statement on Remuneration in Part 2 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Future policy table for executive directors Element Purpose and link to Remuneration Policy details strategic objectives of the Group Salary To provide an Operation appropriate level of Typically reviewed annually by the Committee, with any changes approved and effective from 1 January fixed salary to attract although the Committee may make changes effective from any other date if it considers it appropriate.
and retain individuals Consideration is given to: with the qualities, the scale, scope and responsibility of the individual executives role, including any changes in responsibility: skills and experience the skills, experience, development, contribution and performance of the individual in the role: required to deliver our the salary of individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity: strategic objectives and business performance and the wider market and economic conditions: and create value for our the range of salary increases applying across the Group.
Having considered these items, the Committee determines appropriate levels of base salary.
Executive directors will typically be paid in the currency of their home location.
Maximum opportunity Annual increases will normally be in line with comparable increases across the Group.
Higher increases may be awarded, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, in certain circumstances.
For example, this may include: A significant increase in scope and or responsibility of the individuals role: or Development of the individual within the role.
In addition, where an executive director has been appointed to the Board at a low starting salary, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to salaries paid to individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity, or other executive directors as their experience develops.
Benefits To provide market Operation competitive benefits Benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance, or equivalent, permanent health insurance and life to attract and retain assurance.
individuals with the Life assurance cover is provided for the Chief Executive up to the greater of 2,500,000 or four times annual qualities, skills and base salary: where cover of four times salary exceeds the maximum free cover limit, medical underwriting will experience required be required and cover will be subject to insurer acceptance.
Four times annual base salary is provided for all to deliver our strategic other executive directors, up to the maximum free cover limit as specified in the life assurance policy, which objectives.
may be amended from time to time.
The types of benefits provided are reviewed from time to time and may be adjusted by the Committee if deemed appropriate to ensure on-going competitiveness.
Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete an international assignment due to business requirements, additional benefits such as relocation assistance or other expatriate benefits may be offered if considered appropriate.
Benefits may also be varied according to local practice.
Maximum opportunity Given the complexity of assessing the future monetary cost of some benefits, the Committee has not set an absolute limit on the value of benefits delivered, but aims to ensure that the level of benefits provided remains appropriate.
48 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element Purpose and link to Remuneration Policy details strategic objectives of the Group Pension To aid attraction and Operation related retention of individuals Executive directors can choose to participate in the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement benefits with the qualities, skills or receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, or a combination thereof.
Payment may be up to 15% of salary, and experience required with Company contributions to the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement being restricted to to deliver our strategic the limit for tax relief in place at the time.
Instead of paying a cash allowance in lieu of pension, the Committee may make alternative arrangements to deliver an equivalent value to the executive director, provided that there objectives, allowing is no material increase in costs to the Company.
such executives to provide for their The level of pension provided is reviewed from time to time and may be adjusted by the Committee if deemed retirement.
appropriate to ensure on-going competitiveness.
Maximum opportunity 15% of base salary.
Annual Bonus To incentivise executives Operation Plan ABP to deliver strategic Bonuses are awarded annually based on performance in the relevant financial year.
The performance measures business priorities which apply to the ABP are chosen by the Committee at the start of the year to ensure the Group is focused on for the financial year its strategic objectives.
The Committee sets threshold, target and maximum, and determines the appropriate with compulsory weighting, for each of the financial measures.
deferred payment Stretch objectives are also set in relation to the non-financial element of the plan and will typically be a designed to provide combination of team and personal objectives with the aim of delivering value to shareholders and achieving the additional alignment Groups business strategy: objectives will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report in the relevant with shareholders and reporting period.
At the end of the year, the Committee reviews actual performance against the relevant measures.
Assessment of non-financial objectives is based on demonstrable evidence of achievement during the year.
The Committee is able to adjust the outcome at its discretion to ensure it is fair and appropriate, taking into account the overall performance of the Group.
Achievement of bonus, including the use of discretion, will be disclosed in the following years Directors Remuneration Report as appropriate.
At least 25% of the value of any bonus earned is subject to deferral for a further period of at least two years and, subject to legal restrictions or adverse tax consequences, will be awarded as nil cost share options.
Dividend equivalent payments will be accrued on shares comprising the deferred bonus award prior to vesting and will be paid out proportionately with the award also in shares.
Deferred awards may also be settled in cash.
The vesting of any deferred bonus may be reduced or cancelled, in line with malus provisions, and is subject to clawback provisions at the absolute discretion of the Committee.
Malus and clawback provisions can be operated in circumstances which include but are not limited to: material misstatement of the Groups financial results: a material failure of risk management by the Group: serious reputational damage to the Group: serious breach of health and safety standards: or serious misconduct or fraud by the executive.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity will not exceed 200% of base salary in respect of any financial year.
Performance metrics At least 50% of the maximum potential bonus is based on financial measures with the remainder being based on non-financial measures.
The balance between financial and non-financial measures is reviewed annually and may be adjusted by the Committee, if deemed appropriate, to ensure alignment with overall Group objectives.
Non-financial objectives are measured annually against agreed team and or personal objectives.
Typically, these will include objectives linked to safety and assurance and the Groups strategic framework and priorities.
For financial measures, threshold performance must be met before any award is paid, with 100% payable for maximum performance.
The Committee may determine that a target performance level will also be defined between threshold and maximum.
50% will vest for achievement of the target: a proportionate award is calculated for performance between threshold and target, and between target and maximum.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 1: Policy Report Element Purpose and link to Remuneration Policy details strategic objectives of the Group Long Term To reward and retain Operation Plan LTP executives while aligning Within the John Wood Group PLC Long Term Plan, LTIP is the Groups current long term incentive plan their interests with those for senior leaders, including executive directors, and is based on a rolling performance period of at least of shareholders by three years.
Executive directors may be granted conditional share awards or nil cost options over shares incentivising performance in the Company at the start of the performance period or in the case of a new appointment, at the earliest over the longer term.
opportunity deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Awards may also be settled in cash.
Performance measures Performance is measured over a period of at least three financial years, at which point shares vest.
100% of are linked to longer term any award is normally deferred for at least two years following the end of the performance period, unless the creation of shareholder Committee determines otherwise, to aid retention.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the number of shares subject to award will be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would have been paid on the award between grant and vesting, assuming reinvestment of the dividends on shares on such basis as the Committee determines.
For nil-cost options, no shares will be awarded in lieu of dividends post-vesting i. e. between vesting and exercise.
The vesting of any award may be reduced or cancelled, in line with malus provisions, and is subject to clawback provisions at the absolute discretion of the Committee.
Malus and clawback provisions can be operated in circumstances including, but not limited to: a material misstatement of the Groups financial results: a material failure of risk management by the Group: serious reputational damage to the Group: a serious breach of health and safety standards: or serious misconduct or fraud by the executive.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity does not normally exceed 200% of base salary in respect of any financial year of the Group with the Committee having the discretion to award up to 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances.
Where a salary is materially amended during the performance period, the Committee may adjust the number of shares under award to reflect the salary change.
Performance metrics Awards made to the executive directors vest based on performance against a combination of performance measures.
At least 25% of the award will be based on relative TSR and a portion of the remainder will be based on financial measures.
During the course of a performance period, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the performance targets when it considers an amended target would be more appropriate and not materially easier to satisfy.
For threshold levels of performance, a minimum of 25% of the award vests, increasing on a straight line basis to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
Employee To encourage share Operation Share Plan ownership across the Executive Directors can participate in the Employee Share Plan ESP on the same terms as other employees, ESP Group.
and in line with the rules of the Plan as applied.
The ESP is open to eligible employees across the Group.
It gives participants the opportunity to purchase Wood Group shares and receive matching shares in the Company.
The matching share ratio is determined annually up to a maximum of one matching share in the Company for every share purchased under the ESP.
Matching shares are granted in the form of conditional share awards and will vest at the end of a two-year holding period provided the participant continues to hold the related purchased shares throughout this period.
Matching share awards may also be settled in cash.
Eligible employees may choose to enroll annually.
The Committee may at any time determine that a participant will receive an amount in cash and or additional shares equal in value to any dividends that would have been paid on the matching shares between the date of grant and their vesting date.
This assumes reinvestment of the dividends on shares on such basis as the Committee determines.
The Committee may determine the extent to which matching shares vest in the event of a change of control, a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may materially affect the current or future value of shares.
The Committee may adjust the number of matching shares in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event which may affect the current or future value.
The rules of the plan were approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and may be amended in accordance with their terms.
Maximum opportunity Employees may contribute up to 10% of gross salary, or such lower amount as the Remuneration Committee may determine, which is deducted in regular pay periods from the net salary.
50 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the policy report for executive directors: Selection of performance metrics and target setting The performance metrics for those elements of variable remuneration which are subject to performance measures are chosen in light of their appropriateness to supporting the business strategy of the Group.
The Committee sets targets against these measures at the commencement of each performance period with consideration to business context, internal factors, external environment and market consensus.
The Committee considers the combination of the performance measures to ensure appropriate balance and delivering value to shareholders, whilst supporting incentivisation and retention for executive directors.
Annual bonus plan ABP performance measures will be split between financial and non-financial measures as described in the policy table.
Financial measures will typically be a measure of profit and or revenue collection: non-financial measures will be stretching objectives, with tangible performance outcomes focused on the delivery of the Group's short term strategic plans.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP performance measures will include Total Shareholder Return TSR and a measure of profit as a minimum.
The Committee consider the combination of the performance measures to ensure appropriate balance between relative performance against the peer group and delivering value to shareholders, whilst supporting incentivisation and retention for executive directors.
During the course of a performance period, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the achievement levels required to ensure the performance targets remain effective, whilst ensuring new levels remain demanding and achievable as those first set.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The policy for executive directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration throughout the Group, with the policy for executive directors and senior leaders more heavily weighted towards variable pay than in the wider workforce.
The Group aims to provide employees with remuneration packages that are market competitive within each employees country of employment and ensure compliance with the Groups equal opportunities policy and national legislative requirements.
Remuneration differs based on location, role and job level within the Group.
Where appropriate, employees participate in the Group annual bonus and LTP arrangements, with maximum levels of participation being set by reference to their position in the organisation.
Commitments entered into prior to policy effective date The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the date of the 2014 AGM being the date the previous policy came into effect : ii before the policy contained in this report came into effect, provided that the terms of payment were consistent with the shareholder approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Group.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are deemed to be agreed at the time the award is granted.
Change of Control In the event of a change of control, vesting of awards shares and or cash depends on the extent to which financial and or non-financial performance measures have been met at that time.
Time pro-rating may be disapplied of the Committee considers is appropriate.
In the event the Group is wound up or if there is a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may materially affect the current or future value of shares, the Committee may determine that awards may vest depending on the extent to which performance conditions have been met at that time in accordance with the associated plan rules.
Alternatively the Committee may adjust the number of shares subject to an award.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Group, with the value of those shares expressed as a percentage of salary.
The holding will be built up from after tax share awards which are not subject to any further performance or other conditions such as continued employment.
The holding does not include shares held by connected persons.
The shareholding guidelines are as follows: X Chief Executive: 200% of base salary X Other executive directors: 100% of base salary External appointments The executive directors are permitted, with Board approval, to undertake external duties provided there is no conflict of interest and the Remuneration Committee determines they are still able to operate effectively in role.
The executive director will keep any fees associated with external appointments.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 1: Policy Report Remuneration policy for the Chair of the Board and non-executive directors This table summarises the policy for fees and remuneration in relation to the Chair and non-executive directors.
Element Purpose and link to Remuneration Policy details short - and long term strategic objectives of the Group Remuneration To attract and retain Operation individuals with the Remuneration is in the form of fees, payable monthly for the position of Chair or quarterly, for all other positions.
qualities, skills and The Chair receives an all-inclusive remuneration which is reviewed annually by the Committee, which makes a experience required recommendation to the Board, with changes ordinarily effective from 1 January.
to provide a positive Non-executive directors receive a base fee in relation to their role.
The remuneration of the non-executive contribution to the directors is reviewed annually by the Chair, Chief Executive and Company Secretary, who make a Board and to deliver our recommendation to the Board, with changes ordinarily effective from 1 January.
Additional fees may be paid for strategic objectives related duties including the senior independent directorship and for chairing, membership and attendance of certain Board Committees.
Fees are set by the Board at a level considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individual required, but avoiding paying more than necessary for this purpose.
Fee levels are typically set taking into account: the expected commitment levels and the skills and experience of the individual: and the fee levels paid to individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Non-executive directors can elect to be paid in any currency at the time of appointment: this will typically be in either pounds sterling or in US dollars at the applicable exchange rate at the time of payment.
Payments may be made in the form of either cash or shares as elected by the non-executive director.
Non-executive directors are also reimbursed all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and any tax thereon.
Maximum opportunity No prescribed maximum for Chair or non-executive directors remuneration, although an aggregate maximum for non-executive directors remuneration of 1,000,000 is included in the Articles of Association.
Notes to the policy table for Chair and non-executive directors The aggregate maximum for non-executive directors remuneration is proposed to increase to 1,000,000 in the Articles of Association to allow for additional Board members.
Recruitment & Promotion Policy The Committees approach where the Group appoints a new executive or non-executive director is typically to align the remuneration package with the terms of the remuneration policy laid out in the relevant tables of this report.
In the event of internal promotion to the Board, any commitments made before promotion will continue to be honoured under this policy, even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
As far as possible, the Committee will seek to structure all awards in line with the stated remuneration policy.
To facilitate external recruitment, the Committee may make one-off awards to compensate variable pay or contractual rights which an individual would forfeit on leaving their current employer.
Any such buy-out would, where possible, be on a comparable basis and would take into account value, performance targets, the likelihood of those targets being met and vesting periods.
In considering its approach, the Committee will give due regard to all relevant factors, including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
Excluding the value of any potential buy-out, the maximum value of variable remuneration offered at recruitment to any new executive director will be 450% of base salary.
This is within the maximum amounts currently laid out in the policy table of this report, namely a maximum annual bonus opportunity of up to 200% of base salary and a maximum LTP award of up to 250% of base salary.
Shareholders will be provided with full details including the rationale for the arrangements in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
For the recruitment of Chair and non-executive directors, remuneration would be provided in line with the existing fee structure.
52 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Service contracts, notice and payment for loss of office Executive Directors The current service contract effective dates are shown below.
It is the Groups policy for all executive directors to have service contracts which can be terminated by the director or by the Group with 12 months notice.
Executive Director Current contract date Robin Watson 1 January 2016 David Kemp 13 May 2015 None of the service contracts provide for predetermined amounts of compensation to be paid in the event of early termination and there are no further obligations contained within the executive directors service contracts which could give rise to any remuneration payment which has not already been disclosed in this remuneration policy.
On termination of service contracts by the Group, in certain circumstances executive directors are entitled to payment of their remuneration, subject to a general duty to mitigate their loss.
There are no specific provisions under which executive directors are entitled to receive compensation upon early termination, other than in accordance with the notice period.
Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Group or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Groups discretion.
The Committees policy in respect of the different elements of remuneration for executive directors leaving under different scenarios is as follows: Payment Good leaver Other leaver Base salary, Paid up to the date of leaving, including any untaken holidays and, subject to mitigation, payment in lieu of Paid for the proportion pension and notice where the Group considers it inappropriate for a departing executive director to work the required of the notice period benefits notice period.
Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees may be considered.
Annual bonus For reason of injury, disability, ill-health, retirement, sale of employing entity out of the Group and in such No entitlement to any circumstances as the Committee may determine otherwise including redundancy : award for the current year and the forfeit of Paid up to the date of leaving based on completed months worked in the year with payment made on any deferred awards normal payment date once plan outcomes are known from previous years not Any deferred amounts from previous years which are not yet paid are paid at the normal payment date for such deferrals yet paid.
On death, an immediate payment may be made to the estate and or designated beneficiary at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account performance and the proportion of the relevant bonus year served.
Deferred bonus amounts will vest in full at the time of death.
Long term For reason of injury, disability, ill-health, sale of employing company or business or, for any other reason All existing awards incentives determined by the Committee: lapse.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, where the executive director has completed the required period of service set by the Committee normally 18 months from the start of the performance period then awards will vest on a proportionate basis as if the participant had not ceased office or employment unless the Committee determines that awards should vest as soon as practicable following cessation The number of shares that vest in these circumstances shall be determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time elapsed since grant The Committee may determine different arrangements to take effect of any local tax or legal requirements.
On death, where the executive has completed the required qualifying period of service set by the Committee normally 18 months from the start of the performance period, unvested awards vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied and, if the Committee considers it appropriate, the period that has elapsed since grant.
Employee For reason of injury, disability, ill-health, sale of employing company or business or, for any other reason All matching shares will Share Plan determined by the Committee, the Committee will determine the number of matching shares that will vest.
On death, the holding period will be deemed to end on the date of death.
Matching shares will vest over such number of shares as the Board may determine.
A transfer will be made to the estate and or designated beneficiary at the discretion of the Committee, as soon as reasonably practicable.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with an executive directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
The executive director service contracts are available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 1: Policy Report Non-executive directors Shareholder Engagement Non-executive directors have each entered into letters of engagement The Committees policy is that appropriate shareholder consultation addressing remuneration, services to be provided, conflicts of interest will take place in advance of any material change being proposed to and confidentiality.
The letters of engagement do not have fixed terms the Directors Remuneration Policy.
As a minimum, the Committee will to be paid and are terminable with up to 90 days written notice.
engage annually with significant shareholders and voting agencies by None of the letters of engagement provide for predetermined amounts way of letter email and offer the opportunity to meet with the Chair of of compensation in the event of early termination and there are no the Committee.
The Committee views these meetings as an opportunity further obligations contained within the letters of engagement which to ensure the Directors Remuneration Policy and application continues could give rise to any remuneration payment or loss of office payment to be aligned with shareholder views, with shareholder feedback used which has not already been disclosed in this remuneration policy.
to inform the Committee decision making process.
The non-executive director letters of engagement are available for A summary of any such consultation and the Committees response inspection at the Groups registered office.
to substantive points raised will be included in the relevant section of the Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition, the Committee receives input on broader shareholder views through remuneration committee advisors.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is mindful of pay and conditions within the Group and is kept informed on the fixed and variable remuneration and benefits provided to employees below the level of executive director by the Executive President of People and Organisation, including any relevant information received via employee feedback.
Given the size of the Group and the way remuneration practice varies by jurisdiction, it is very difficult for the Committee to be able to consult meaningfully with employees across the Group on the remuneration policy for executive directors.
The Committee does however review remuneration comparison measurements linked to the pay and employment conditions of employees based in the country where the executive director is based when determining the quantum and structure of the director's remuneration.
54 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Illustrations of future application of remuneration policy As detailed in the future policy table, a significant proportion of remuneration is linked to variable pay opportunity, particularly at maximum performance levels, through the short term Annual Bonus Plan ABP and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The bar charts below provide an indication of the level of remuneration, as a value 000s and percentage, which could be received by each executive director under the Groups remuneration policy in three assumed performance scenarios minimum, target and maximum performance.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
The notes that follow the charts lay out the basis of the calculation and assumptions used to compile them.
Robin Watson Chief Executive David Kemp Group CFO GBP000 GBP000 3500 1800 1,632 2,954 1600 3000 1400 38% 2500 41% 1200 1,047 2000 1,829 1000 30% 800 1500 33% 33% 36% 600 26% 462 1000 29% 704 400 16% 7% 4% 15% 6% 4% 500 200 84% 37% 24% 85% 33% 20% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Pay - salary 600 600 600 Fixed Pay 390 390 390 Fixed Pay - benefits and 104 104 104 Fixed Pay - benefits and 72 72 72 pension pension Annual Bonus 0 525 1,050 Annual Bonus 0 273 546 Long Term Plan 0 600 1,200 Long Term Plan 0 312 624 Notes to the illustrations of future application of remuneration policy Minimum performance - under this scenario, it has been assumed that each executive director receives his base salary, benefits and pension related benefits only.
Target - this scenario demonstrates performance in line with expectations.
Under this scenario, it has been assumed that each executive director receives their base salary, benefits and pension.
For the purposes of bonus, it has been assumed that annual bonus awards have been made at target levels, which results in payout at 50% and that LTIP performance is such that awards have vested at 50%.
Maximum performance - under this scenario, it has been assumed that each executive director receives his base salary, benefits and pension.
For the purposes of bonus, it has been assumed that annual bonus awards have been made at maximum levels and that LTIP performance is such that awards have vested at maximum level.
In all scenarios, fixed remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and pension.
The figures used in preparing the charts are as follows: Salary is the last confirmed salary as at 1 January 2017 Benefits is the last known figure as set out in the single figure of remuneration table for 2016 Pension related benefits - for defined contribution pension or cash allowance in lieu of pension, the figure is based on 15% of base salary, as laid out in the Policy table, and the last confirmed salary Bonus includes short term and long term incentives and is based on the proposed application of the policy for 2017 and the last confirmed salary.
The illustrations above reflect maximum potential opportunity as a percentage of base salary as follows: ABP: 175% for the Chief Executive and 140% for the Group CFO LTIP: 200% for the Chief Executive and 160% for the Group CFO.
For reasons of clarity, any dividend accrual has been excluded from the charts above.
In line with the methodology outlined in the relevant legislation, no share price growth has been assumed for the purpose of these illustrations The percentage figures contained within each of the bars illustrates the percentage of the total comprised by each of the parts.
The figure at the end of each bar is the total value.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each executive director The following table set out the single figure of remuneration for each of the executive directors.
Executive directors - UK based 000 Long term Pension related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total g Robin Watson 2016 600 14 320 156 90 1,179 2015 468 14 225 57 70 834 h David Kemp 2016 390 14 208 80 59 751 2015 222 8 107 32 35 404 Notes to the single figure of remuneration executive directors a Salary received during the year.
b Taxable benefits received during the year.
Taxable benefits include company car allowance, private medical, dental and contributory health and welfare cover as applicable.
c Bonus awarded in relation to the year, inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral.
d The value of long term incentives which vested in respect of performance periods ending during the year, inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral: The figures have been calculated using the number of share options that vested multiplied by the closing mid-market share price on 30 December 2016 of 8.760.
LTIP performance periods commencing 2013 onwards accrue dividends from the commencement of the performance period, which are paid as additional share options: 80% is paid following the end of the performance period and 20% deferred for two years.
The deferred element may continue to attract dividends which will be reported in the period in which they are received.
The figure in the table includes dividends accrued to 31 December 2016. e Pension figure reflects cash value of Defined Contribution pension contribution or cash alternative.
Further detail in relation to individual pension arrangements is provided in section 2.2 on page 61. f The single figure of remuneration, being the sum of columns a to f inclusive.
g Robin Watson was appointed as Chief Executive at 1 January 2016.
Awards under the LTIP 2014-2016 performance period were awarded during his time as WGPSN CEO.
Performance measures and achievement relate to divisional targets set at the commencement of the performance period.
In 2015, Robin Watsons annual salary and bonus was calculated using a hybrid salary.
This was calculated pro rata and comprises of his role as CEO for WGPSN from 1 January 2015 to 5 April 2015, where his salary was 378,500: and his salary of 500,000 from 6 April 2015 onwards following his promotion to Group Chief Operating Officer.
h David Kemp was appointed as Group CFO and executive director from 13 May 2015.
Awards under the LTIP 2014-2016 performance period were awarded during his time as WGPSN CFO.
The information in the single figure table for 2015 reflects his remuneration arrangements from appointment date with the exception of long term incentives which is based on performance period 2013-2015 and reflects his salary at the commencement of the performance period.
The pro-rata bonus is based on a hybrid annual salary comprising of 300,000 in his role as Deputy CFO from 1 January to 12 May 2015, and his salary of 350,000 as Group CFO from 13 May to 31 December 2015.
Single figure remuneration % of total 2016 Pension related benefits Pension related benefits 8% 8% Salary Salary Long term incentives Long term incentives 51% Robin 52% David 13% 10% Watson Kemp Benefits Benefits 2% Bonus Bonus 1% 27% 28% 56 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Single figure remuneration for Chair of the Board and Financial measures non-executive directors The financial measures consisted of EBITA, earnings before interest, tax and amortisation, as a measure of profit and DSO days sales The following table sets out the single figure of remuneration for the outstanding, relating to revenue collection as a key contributing factor Chair and each of the non-executive directors.
Further details on the to cash flow.
These were split 48% and 12% respectively.
non-executive director fee structure are set out on page 66.
For both financial measures, threshold performance must be met before any award will be paid.
If the financial targets set are achieved, Chair & non-executive directors single figure of remuneration 70% of the potential bonus opportunity was paid.
Maximum bonus 000 opportunity was achievable when results met or exceeded maximum Year Total Fees performance.
Performance between threshold and target and between Ian Marchant 2016 275 target and maximum results in a proportionate award calculated on a straight-line basis.
2015 275 Thomas Botts 2016 60.5 The relationship between performance against financial targets and 2015 60.5 bonus achieved is set out and illustrated in the following graphs.
Jann Brown 2016 63.7 For EBITA, threshold performance was 85% and maximum bonus was 2015 60.5 achieved at 115% of the target set.
a Jacqueline Ferguson 2016 4.6 2015 n a b Richard Howson 2016 35.4 EBITA EBITA Payout 2015 n a Mary Shafer-Malicki 2016 55.5 2015 55.5 Jeremy Wilson 2016 58.7 2015 55.5 c David Woodward 2016 23.8 2015 65.5 Notes to the single figure of remuneration Chair & non-executive directors a Jacqueline Ferguson was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2016: fees shown are pro rata from this date.
b Richard Howson was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2016.
Fees shown are pro rata from this date.
c David Woodward retired from the Board at the AGM on 11 May 2016.
His fee is pro rata to this date.
Bonus For DSO, threshold performance was 110% of the target set and For 2016, the maximum bonus opportunity for the executives was maximum was 90%.
The monthly average is taken over the year, and a 125% of base salary.
Bonus measures were split between financial lower DSO indicates better performance.
60% and non-financial 40% measures as illustrated in the chart below: 10% of the non-financial corporate objectives related directly to HSSE performance measures.
DSO DSO Payout Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity EBITA DSO Corporate Personal objectives objectives 48% 12% 20% 20% financial measures 60% non-financial measures 40% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration Overall achievement of financial objectives was 13.1% of the total maximum bonus opportunity.
Group EBITA performance achieved 90.85% to target, resulting in partial payout for this measure for all participants.
Group DSO did not meet threshold performance and therefore resulted in zero payment for this measure for all participants.
The financial targets for the bonus year ended 31 December 2016, and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out in the table below.
Measures Threshold Target Maximum Achieved Group EBITA $340m $400m $460m $363.4m Group DSO 71.5 days 65 days 58.5 days 75 days In line with previous practice, the details of the financial targets set for the annual bonus plan are disclosed retrospectively, as in the opinion of the Committee these are commercially sensitive.
Non-financial measures Non-financial measures total 40% and were split between corporate objectives 10% relates directly to HSSE performance measures and 10% to other corporate objectives : and personal objectives 20% which are aimed at the achievement of the Groups business strategy.
Achievement of non-financial objectives is considered by the Chair of the Board and the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual review process.
Measurement against each of the objectives is based on tangible performance outcomes and demonstrable evidence of achievement during the year.
Overall achievement of corporate and personal objectives as agreed by the Committee for the bonus year ended 31 December 2016 was 73.75% with details set out in the tables below and over: Corporate Objectives 20% of bonus opportunity Achievement 62.5% 12.5% of bonus opportunity HSSE & Assurance: HSSE & Assurance: Deliver against the 2016 HSSE Plan No work related fatalities Zero work related fatalities TRCF: our commitment to continually improve HSSE requires us to set challenging targets.
Our target was based on exceeding our best-ever performance 2015 TRCF improvement Though many of our businesses did deliver this target, overall, we did not.
Our response Delivery of assurance schedule as directed by the Groups to this will be to reflect on why this was the case and refocus our efforts risk register The risk register is now a living process and embedded across the Group.
The assurance schedule was delivered on time Sector broadening has been successful 95% oil and gas in 2014: in 2016 this has decreased to 85% Strategic framework and priorities: Strategic framework and priorities: Position the business for growth, coming through the current Organic positions and contractual extensions: excellent performance in 2016 down-cycle Acquisition volume lower than anticipated, reflecting a combination of market and Organic growth from established relationships and new Wood Group discipline contract wins Overall savings of greater than $90m delivered and all targets achieved in 2016 Strategic acquisitions Cost savings 58 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive Personal Objectives Achievement director 20% of bonus opportunity 85% 17% of bonus opportunity Robin Watson Deliver organisational structure aligned for Organisational change is aligned to strategy and has been well executed and governed enhanced service delivery to our customers Customer feedback has been universally positive and positions us well for the future Engage customers & stakeholders in dialogue Customer and stakeholder engagement carried out, with positive endorsement received about the potential of the Group Embed the strength and continuing External coaching session for the ELT carried out and independent feedback obtained development of the Executive Leadership by the Chair of the Board and also through the Lintstock board review process.
Team ELT New organisation and roles still being bedded-in, but significant improvements have already been made, with relationships remaining strong Measure and report progress against delivery Strategy well defined and being delivered.
Shared services continue to be implemented of the Group Strategy to improve efficiency and savings.
ERP programmes are on plan and budget.
HSSE delivery continues to be a focus for improvement David Kemp Deliver the 2016 shared services plan for 2016 ERP and shared services plans delivered in line with budget and schedule, finance, aligning to the ERP implementation resulting in significant cost reduction programme Implement further enhancements to the risk Extensive management improvement programme in place including: management framework and the Group Rollout of risk management framework and standardised processes across Group, financial compliance programme with risk champions appointed Internal audit remit broadened into non-financial areas Deliver Finance & Administration Re-organisation completed with positive promotion of talent and consistent organisational change organisational model driven across Group.
IT&S strategy delivered and execution ongoing.
Legal organisation restructured to regional model, with centres of excellence.
Global head of procurement recruited, together with heads of supply chain in East and West.
Organisational design delivered and endorsed by ELT Bonus award achievement summary: Payment of 50% of the total bonus was deferred in the form of nil cost share options for a further two years based on an average share price computed using the 20 day trading average in the period running up to 31 December 2016, with continued employment a requirement to receive the deferred payment, other than for those classified as good leavers.
The table below shows overall bonus achievement for each of the executive directors.
Financial award Non-financial award Total award as Executive % salary % salary Total award as % Total bonus % of max bonus Director achieved Payment achieved Payment of salary payment opportunity Robin Watson 16.38% 98,280 36.88% 221,250 53.26% 319,530 42.6% David Kemp 16.38% 63,882 36.88% 143,813 53.26% 207,695 42.6% Details relating to 2015 bonus awards can be found in the 2015 Annual Report: www.
com ar15 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration Long term incentives Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The figures set out in the single figure of remuneration table are related to awards under LTIP 2014-2016, which vested at 31 December 2016.
As detailed in notes g and h to the single figure table, awards under the LTIP 2014-2016 performance period were awarded to Robin Watson during his time as WGPSN CEO and to David Kemp during his time as WGPSN CFO.
Maximum awards and LTIP measures under the performance period were as per the table below: Performance Measures split Name Participation Level TSR AEPS EBITA Robin Watson 125% 25% 37.5% 37.5% WGPSN division David Kemp 100% 25% 25% 50% WGPSN division TSR is Total Shareholder Return and is a measure of the growth in Wood Groups share price plus dividends and other shareholder returns over the period: performance is measured relative to a peer group of comparative companies.
Each company is ranked and Wood Groups position in this group is taken as a measure of success.
The TSR peer group for 2016 comprised: Aker Solutions, AMEC Foster Wheeler, Cape, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Hunting, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Technip, Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
AEPS and EBITA are determined using actual foreign exchange rates.
No adjustments are made to reflect changes in currency from the date the targets are set.
The targets for LTIP 2014-2016, and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out in the table below.
On reaching the threshold, 25% of the relevant measure becomes payable: and on reaching the maximum, 100% of the relevant measure becomes payable.
For achievement between threshold and maximum, the allocation is on a straight line basis.
For the performance period 2014-2016, AEPS and divisional EBITA did not meet threshold performance resulting in zero award for this measure.
We were top of our TSR peer group, achieving 100th percentile which resulted in maximum 25% award on this performance measure for all participants.
For the 2014-2016 performance period all vestings were made as nil cost options.
For all participants, 80% is paid following the end of the performance period and 20% of the share options awarded is deferred for a further two years.
The LTIP award for performance period 2014-2016 accrues dividends from the commencement of the performance period, which are paid as additional share options.
The deferred element may continue to attract dividends which will be reported in the relevant period.
Financial measures Threshold Maximum Achieved th th th TSR 50 percentile 75 percentile 100 percentile AEPS 120.8 cents 142.2 cents 64.1 cents a Divisional EBITA $393.6m $429.6m zero a EBITA for the heritage businesses of WGPSN, WGM and WGK, were set prior to the Group reorganisation, which was effective 1 July 2016.
It was agreed at the time of the reorganisation to maintain the existing targets for this performance period, and therefore participants would continue to be measured on the performance of their heritage business, where applicable.
EBITA did not meet threshold performance, resulting in zero award for this performance measure.
Details relating to 2015 long term incentive awards can be found in the 2015 Annual Report: www.
com ar15 60 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.2 Pension related benefits The executive directors are provided with pension benefits via the Group Personal Pension Plan GPP which is a defined contribution scheme.
A Company contribution of 15% of base salary was split between pension contribution up to the UK HMRC annual allowance and a cash payment in lieu of pension above this.
The Chief Executive was provided with life assurance cover of 2,500,000.
The Group CFO was provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary, up to a maximum free cover limit of 1,800,000, in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
2.3 Long Term Incentive Plan interests awarded during the year The following table sets out the awards made to each of the executive directors under the Groups share based long term incentive arrangements for the performance period 2016-2018.
Performance measures were based on relative TSR and AEPS weighted equally at 50% each.
Following shareholder consultation, the balance of performance measures were adjusted within the remuneration policy framework, for performance periods commencing 2016 onwards, in recognition of the cyclical nature of Wood Groups business and placing additional weighting on relative performance against our peer group.
Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year Salary Holding relevant to Face value Percentage period for Executive Type of Participation performance of the award vesting at Performance 20% of Director award Level cycle 000's threshold period award Targets Threshold is set at 50th percentile with maximum Conditional Robin Watson 150% 600,000 900,000 at 75th percentile: AEPS award of for the performance shares 1 Jan 2016 Two years 25% period 2016-2018 awarded 31 Dec 2018 from vesting was set as 80 cents under the at threshold and 100 David Kemp 125% 390,000 487,500 LTP cents at maximum performance.
2.4 Payments to past directors For the year ending December 2016, payments made to past directors relate to the LTIP performance period 2014-2016 where a pro rata entitlement applied for good leaver status in line with the plan rules.
Details of payment inclusive of dividends, participation levels and performance measures are contained in the table below.
All vestings are made as nil cost share options with 80% paid following the end of the performance period and 20% deferred for a further two years.
The LTIP award for the performance period 2014-2016 accrued dividends which are paid as additional share options.
The figures have been calculated using the number of share options that vested multiplied by the closing mid-market share price on 30 December 2016 of 8.760, and the exchange rate used for those paid in US dollars was $1.2357.
Performance Measures Award Salary Participation Pro rata Equivalent Name GBP 000s Level TSR AEPS entitlement Value share options a Bob Keiller 630.0 150% 25% 75% 67% 207,385 23,674 b Alan Semple $653.5 125% 25% 75% 50% $100,280 9,264 a Bob Keiller retired from his position of Group CEO and executive director on 31 December 2015 b Alan Semple was a US based executive director.
He retired from the Board on 13 May 2015, and subsequently from his position as Group CFO on 30 June 2015.
There were no other payments made to past directors during 2016 which have not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration 2.5 Payments for loss of office There were no payments made for loss of office to any director during 2016.
2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding guidelines were introduced at 1 July 2013 requiring the Chief Executive to hold shares valued at 150% of base salary and the other executive directors to hold shares valued at 100% of base salary.
The holding will be built up from after tax share awards which are not subject to any further performance conditions, such as continued employment.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors between 31 December 2016 and 2 March 2017.
The extent to which each director met the shareholding guidelines is shown in the table below: Shareholding at 31 December 2016 Value of shares held Shareholding guideline a Executive director not including connected persons as a % of salary met at 31 December 2016 Robin Watson 141,758 207.0% Achieved David Kemp 2,216 5.0% Accumulating Notes to shareholding guidelines achievement a Calculated using the closing mid-market share price on 30 December 2016 of 8.760 and base salary levels at the same date.
A summary of directors share interests and incentive plan interests are provided in the following two tables.
The first table details directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2016 with and without performance conditions: declaration includes shares held by connected persons as defined for the purposes of section 96B 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The second table details directors interests in long term incentive plans at 31 December 2016.
Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2016.
Interests in share incentive Interests in share incentive plans, awarded without plans, awarded subject to Shares owned outright as Shares owned outright as performance conditions at performance conditions at Beneficial interest at 1 January 2016 at 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Executive Directors Robin Watson 135,852 146,951 55,413 337,833 David Kemp - 2,216 47,680 180,426 Non-executive Directors Ian Marchant 22,777 22,777 Thomas Botts 8,500 8,500 Jann Brown 6,875 11,382 a Jacqueline Ferguson b Richard Howson Mary Shafer-Malicki 3,450 3,450 Jeremy Wilson 10,000 10,000 c David Woodward 25,000 Notes to share interests a Jacqueline Ferguson was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2016. b Richard Howson was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2016. c David Woodward retired from the Board on 11 May 2016.
His details relate to his shareholding interest at that date.
None of the executive directors had a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
At the date of this report the interests of the directors in the shares of the Company remain as stated.
Where applicable the December 2016 figures include interest in retained long term plan awards.
For performance periods commencing 2013 onwards, dividend accrues on 100% of award: 80% is paid in March following the end of the performance period and 20% is deferred for two years.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration 2.7 TSR performance summary & Chief Executive Chief Executive remuneration remuneration Chief Annual Long term In accordance with the reporting regulations the TSR performance Executive bonus incentive summary will be built up until a 10 year period is disclosed, and will be single figure award as vesting maintained at a 10 year disclosure period.
of total a % of rates as a % remuneration maximum of maximum As the Company is included in the UK FTSE 250 index, but has been Chief Executive Year 000 opportunity opportunity included in the FTSE 100 index for part of the period under review, a both the UK FTSE 250 and UK FTSE 100 indices are shown, by way of Robin Watson 2016 1,179 43% 25% providing a reasonable TSR comparison.
The graph below compares Bob Keiller 2015 1,147 37% 16% the TSR on a holding of shares in John Wood Group PLC with the TSR Bob Keiller 2014 1,330 48% 51% on a holding of shares in the companies in the UK FTSE 250 and 100 Bob Keiller 2013 1,624 60% 79% indices for the last nine financial years.
b Bob Keiller 2012 199 75% 25% c Allister Langlands 2012 2,276 76% 100% TSR performance chart John Wood Group PLC Allister Langlands 2011 3,338 87% 100% UK FTSE 100 Index Allister Langlands 2010 1,314 84% 23% UK FTSE 250 Index Allister Langlands 2009 1,417 60% 0% 600 441% Notes to Chief Executive remuneration table 500 a Robin Watson was appointed as Chief Executive at 1 January 2016.
Long term incentives vesting in 2016 were related to the performance period 2014-2016, and were awarded during his time as WGPSN CEO.
Performance measures 400 and achievement relate to divisional targets set at the commencement of the performance period as detailed on page 60.
254% b Bob Keiller was appointed Group CEO at 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 300 2012 reflected his remuneration from appointment as Group CEO only.
Long term incentives vesting during the year were awarded during his time as Wood Group PSN CEO and vested based on performance targets linked to performance of that division.
117% 200 c Allister Langlands was appointed Chair on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 related to his time as Group CEO only.
100 2.8 Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec The following table provides a summary of the increases in remuneration 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 for the Chief Executive as compared with the average increase for all other UK based employees in the Group.
% change between 2015 and 2016 Chief Executive remuneration Salary Benefits Bonus The total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period a Chief Executive -4.8% 2.53% 9% as the TSR performance graph detailed is listed in the following table.
Average increase of all other d This table includes details of the annual bonus received in each year as 0% 1.54% 40% UK employees in the Group a percentage of the maximum opportunity that was available, as well as the long term incentives which vested in each year as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that could have been received.
Notes to the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration a Robin Watson was promoted to the position of Chief Executive 1 January 2016 with a lower salary than the previous incumbent.
b Given the wide variation in inflation rates across the various geographies in which the Group operates, the comparator group used is all other UK based employees to ensure a valid comparison is provided.
UK based employees constituted approximately 25% of the overall workforce.
c Benefits increase is based on a sample employee with a UK average salary of 58,000 per annum, receiving taxable employee benefits including car allowance, private family medical and dental insurance.
The average bonus increase is based on average bonus paid as a percentage of salary for 2015 for the noted comparator group against average bonus paid as a percentage of salary for 2016. d The average UK bonus in 2016 was 13,400.
This represented an increase of 40% from the 2015 average bonus of 9,600.
The lower average bonus in 2015 was due to the majority of UK bonus participants having the financial element of their bonus attached to the financial performance of Wood Group PSN, which did not meet the threshold for EBITA in 2015.
In 2016, all UK bonus participants had the financial element attached to the Groups financial performance, in line with the Chief Executive, and reflective of changes made to the organisation structure during the course of the year.
64 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Bonus 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay As explained in the Chairs Letter at the start of this report, in 2017, The table below is provided to assist shareholders in assessing the annual bonus opportunities for the executive directors will be increased relative importance of the Groups spend on pay.
It contains details of within the scope of the policy to 175% for the Chief Executive and 140% the remuneration paid to or received by all employees of the Group as for the Group CFO.
There will be no change to the maximum opportunity well as the value of distributions to shareholders by way of dividend for the Annual Bonus Plan under the Directors Remuneration Policy and share buyback over the previous two years.
2015 2016 Difference % Consistent with previous years, bonus measures will be split between Item $m $m $m change financial, HSSE and non-financial measures with a balance of 60%, Remuneration 10% and 30% respectively as shown in the chart below.
paid to or received by all 2,669.7 2,210.1 -459.6 -17.2% Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity employees of the Group Distributions to Profit DSO HSSE Corporate personal shareholders by objectives way of dividend 104.9 116.0 11.1 10.6% 48% 12% 10% 30% and share buyback 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 2.10 Statement of implementation of remuneration Financial measures Financial measures will typically be a measure of profit and or revenue policy in the following financial year collection.
During 2017, the Group's profit reporting measure will The Group Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding change to operating profit before exceptional items in order to make shareholder resolution at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
This section our performance measures more straight forward and to remove the provides an overview of how the Committee will implement the need for additional reconciliations to statutory measures.
The measure remuneration policy in 2017. for revenue collection remains as days sales outstanding DSO.
Base salary The weighting of those measures are unchanged with profit at 48% There is no base salary increase planned as part of the annual review and DSO at 12%.
Profit threshold performance is 85% of the target process for 2017: salaries will therefore remain the same as 2016 as set, and maximum bonus is achieved when results exceed maximum shown in the table below.
For DSO, threshold performance is 110% and maximum is 90% of the target set.
The monthly average is taken over the year, and a lower DSO indicates better performance.
2016 annual 2017 annual Threshold performance for financial measures must be met before any Executive base salary base salary % increase of that element of the award is paid: if target performance is met, 50% Robin Watson 600,000 600,000 0.0% of the potential bonus opportunity is paid, reduced from 70% in 2016: David Kemp 390,000 390,000 0.0% 100% is payable for reaching maximum performance.
Performance between threshold and target and between target and maximum will result in a proportionate award calculated on a straight-line basis.
Benefits For awards made in 2017, 75% of any award will be paid in cash in the The current executive directors will continue to participate in existing March following the end of the performance year, with the remaining benefit arrangements in line with the agreed remuneration policy.
25% deferred into nil cost share options for a further two years.
The Committee has set the financial targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ending 31 December 2017 at its meeting in February 2017.
It is the opinion of the Committee that these are commercially sensitive and in line with previous practice, the details of annual bonus targets and the extent to which the targets are met will be disclosed retrospectively in next years report.
HSSE measures HSSE measures total 10% of bonus opportunity and will relate directly to HSSE improvement targets, measured using Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF, and delivery against the HSSE 2017 plan.
No award against these measures will be paid in the event of a work related fatality.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report | Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration Non-financial measures Non-financial measures weighted 30% of bonus opportunity are summarised in the table below.
These are considered stretching objectives, with tangible performance outcomes focused on the delivery of the Groups strategic plans.
Detailed disclosure of performance against objectives will be contained in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
Executive director Corporate Objectives Personal Objectives Robin Watson ELT through-cycle growth target - Organisational transition - Fully embed the new organisation and complete the Delivery against the strategic framework transition plan in 2017 & priorities: Customers & stakeholders - Actively engage core stakeholder groups and key Overall business positioning for 2018 budget customers in dialogue about the Groups strategic direction and potential earnings to be greater than 2017 earnings Mature our tactical decisions and delivery, from our strategy - Provide mechanisms Strategic acquisitions: complete for delivering against the Group strategy and demonstrate continued tactical progress appropriate acquisitive opportunities Group positioning in Governmental and business community relationships - Achieve organic growth from established Provide a programme of engagement across key but non-core stakeholder groups relationships, with wins balanced across Active safety and ethics leadership - Provide a programme of active leadership and the BUs delivery in the safety and ethics arena Continue to broadening the service and sector mix in line with the Group strategy David Kemp ERP & finance shared services - Deliver 2017 ERP and shared services plan for Finance Stability and effectiveness of the ELT: IT&S outsourcing - Deliver outsourcing of IT Services to IBM in line with agreed Develop the ELT working relationships and inter-relationships within the new service levels organisational structure Entity simplification - Establish entity simplification project and deliver 2017 workscope Assess team health in a measured manner Establish Group supply chain and real estate function - Establish function, independently via the Lintstock process implement agreed organisation structure and deliver efficiencies and savings Outcome will be assessed by reviewing Investor relations - Deliver 2017 investor engagement programme team effectiveness and success of roles in Risk management - Deliver agreed risk management and assurance action plan new structure Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP This represents a broadly flat position at threshold to the 2016 actual For 2017, awards made to the executive directors will be based on EPS of 43.8 cents at threshold and 19.6% compound annual growth TSR and EPS weighted 50% and 50%.
There will be no change to from 2016 actual EPS at maximum.
policy and LTIP maximum opportunity will remain as 200% of salary.
The TSR peer group was reviewed by the Committee and considered However, as discussed in the Chairs Letter, in 2017, the award to the to remain appropriate.
It will therefore be unchanged for 2017 as Chief Executive will be 200% of salary and the award to the Group follows: Aker Solutions, AMEC Foster Wheeler, Cape, Chicago CFO will be 160% of salary.
Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Hunting, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, Awards achieved under the Long Term Incentive Plan will be deferred McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Technip, Weir Group, in full for a period of at least two years following the end of the three Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
year performance period, resulting in a total holding period of 5 years from the year of the award being granted.
Pension and life assurance benefits No awards are made for less than the threshold performance for The executive directors will continue to participate in existing pension and life assurance arrangements in line with the Policy.
EPS and the 50th percentile for TSR.
On reaching the threshold or 50th percentile, 25% of the EPS or TSR-related element becomes payable and on reaching the maximum performance for EPS or Shareholding requirements 75th percentile for TSR, 100% of the EPS or TSR element becomes The shareholding requirements will be increased to 200% for the Chief payable.
For achievement level between threshold and maximum for Executive and will remain at 100% for all other executives.
EPS or between the 50th and 75th percentile performance for TSR, the allocation is on a straight line basis.
Chair of the Board and non-executive director NED remuneration The Chair and NED fee structure for 2017 will be unchanged from In setting the targets for the 20172019 performance period, the Committee took into consideration the current market conditions 2016 as set out below: in the oil & gas sector and the continued uncertainty around our 2017 fees per annum customers spending patterns.
The Committee believes that the uncertainty and challenging markets are likely to persist throughout Chair of the Board remuneration 275,000 2017.
During the course of 2017 the Group will change the principal Annual non-executive director fee inclusive of profit measure it uses to report externally from EBITA to operating 55,500 all Committee attendance profit before exceptional items, and consistent with this basis, will also no longer adjust earnings per share EPS for amortisation charges.
Additional fee for senior independent director 5,000 These changes will be reflected in the targets for the 2017-2019 Additional fee for Audit Remuneration performance period which will be based on EPS before exceptional 5,000 Safety, Assurance & Ethics Chairs items.
The EPS targets for the 2017-2019 performance period were set at 44.8 cents at threshold and 74.8 cents at maximum.
66 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Group financial statements Independent auditors report 68 74 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of 75 comprehensive income expense 76 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of 77 changes in equity 78 Consolidated cash flow statement 79 Notes to the financial statements Company financial statements Independent auditors report 126 128 Company balance sheet 129 Statement of changes in equity 130 Notes to the Company financial statements Five year summary 139 140 Information for shareholders John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67
