108 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance REMUNERATION REPORT OUR ROLE IS TO ENSURE THAT JOHNSON MATTHEY'S REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS ARE APPROPRIATE, ALIGNED WITH SHAREHOLDERS INTERESTS AND ARE MANAGED IN LINE WITH GOOD GOVERNANCE.
Dorothy Thompson, CBE Chair of the Remuneration Committee The last year has seen some challenging economic conditions INTRODUCTION and notable weakening in some of the markets in which the company operates but the company has still been able to deliver a robust As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to performance.
A number of business operations were restructured to present our report for the year ended 31st March 2016.
This report reflect the deterioration in their markets while those businesses in is intended to give an insight into the key matters considered by the markets with continued opportunity for growth, such as Emission committee during the previous 12 months and to give an indication Control Technologies ECT, focused on delivering sustainable growth.
of the matters we expect to consider over the next 12 months.
These challenging conditions are reflected in the annual bonus During the past year some of our key considerations included: payment to Executive Directors, which will be 15% of maximum reviewing the salaries of Executive Directors, as well as the payout for Robert MacLeod, 17% of maximum payout for Den Jones performance conditions of our incentive plans: setting the and 37% of maximum payout for John Walker.
The 2013 Long Term remuneration terms for departing Executive Directors: and reviewing Incentive Plan LTIP allocation will vest at 33% of maximum.
Looking forward to the next 12 months, in addition to our usual business, we will focus on reviewing our Future Incentives and Performance Conditions Remuneration Policy in time for its submission to shareholders at our 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In view of the current economic outlook, we considered the The committee was pleased by the level of shareholder support performance range of the LTIP, which is currently a 6%-12% received for our 2015 directors Remuneration Report, our second compound annual growth rate CAGR in underlying EPS.
year of reporting under the new reporting regulations.
Our policy, To reflect the stage in the companys growth cycle, the low which was introduced in 2014 following strong shareholder support, inflationary environment and challenging outlook for global remains unchanged and I can confirm that there is no intention to economies and commodities, the committee propose a performance make any revisions to it ahead of our 2017 AGM.
We remain range for the 2016 LTIP allocation of 4% 10% compound annual committed to continued transparency and engagement with our growth in underlying EPS, with threshold vesting remaining shareholders on proposed changes to our executive arrangements unchanged at 15% of the award.
and will continue to consult with our shareholders prior to any In setting the performance range of the 2016 LTIP allocation change in our policy.
the committee carefully reviewed how the business plan approved by the board would be translated into performance targets that Corporate Performance and Incentive Outcomes are appropriately challenging, aligned with shareholder expectations and provide executives with a meaningful incentive to drive The overall objective of the company is to deliver superior long term performance.
The LTIP and its performance targets will be growth from value adding sustainable technologies and therefore the reviewed again next year as part of the triennial review of executive remuneration strategy focuses on ensuring alignment with long term director remuneration to ensure continued appropriateness and success and growth.
Long term variable reward is firmly based on shareholder alignment.
growth as measured by increases in underlying earnings per share The committee also reviewed the composition and performance EPS, and annual bonuses require strong near term delivery against conditions attached to our annual bonus plans and decided that challenging targets.
these will remain unchanged for the coming year.
