Corporate governance Appendix to the Directors remuneration report No long-term incentives vested during the year.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT were selected AstheCompany listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 by the Committee in 2014 as its remuneration advisers, remuneration relates to when Just Eat was a privately after a tender and presentation process involving four owned group.
FIT exclusively advise theCommittee and do not provide any other advice tothe Group, nor Percentage change in remuneration of the do they advise management.
This has, the Committee Directorundertaking the role of CEO unaudited believes, ensured their objectivity and independence.
The table below presents the year-on-year percentage FIT are members of the Remuneration Consultants change in remuneration received by the Chief Executive Group and comply with its voluntary codeof conduct Officer, compared with the change in remuneration in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the received by all UK employees.
FITs professional fees for 2016 were 69,766 plus chosen as a suitable comparator group as this includes VAT and were charged on the basisof the firms the UK call centre employees and excludes senior standard terms of business for advice provided.
management and international employees who are The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the ondifferent pay structures.
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and Percentage increase the Company Secretary who attended, by invitation, inremuneration between various Remuneration Committee meetings during 2015and 2016 theyear, although no executive is permitted to All UK participate in discussions or decisions regarding CEO employees hisorher ownremuneration.
Input is also sought Salary 11% 10% fromthe ChiefFinancial Officer as appropriate.
Short-term incentives 5% 24% All taxable benefits 13% 215% Statement of voting at general meeting unaudited On 27 April 2016, the shareholders approved the The rise in salary for the Chief Executive Officer in 2015Directors Remuneration Report as detailed 2016 was in line with the application of the Directors inthetable below: remuneration policy as disclosed in the 2015 Votes for Votes against Votes Directors Remuneration Report.
% of votes cast % of votes cast withheld 2015 Directors Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited Remuneration 491,467,455 25,032,992 The table below details the change in total employee Report 95.15% 4.85% 2,823,188 pay between 2015 and 2016 as detailed in Note 7 ofthe financial statements.
In line with our strategic The 2016 Directors Remuneration Report will be putto plans, earnings have been retained forgrowth and an advisory vote at the Companys AGM on 27April 2017. development of the business and therefore no dividends have been paid since the one paid in April 2014 Link of KPIs to Executive Director remuneration priorto the IPO as part of acapital restructuring.
unaudited Underlying EBITDA and revenues have been used as The remuneration of Executive Directors is aligned acomparative measure as these KPIs are used by the closely with our KPIs though the Companys Annual Directors to measure performance.
have been calculated in line with those in the audited For 2016, the Annual Bonus Plan was aligned with two financial statements.
Group financial KPIs, revenues and Underlying EBITDA, 2016 2015 and two of the Groups strategic, customer-focused % change m m KPIs, active users and number of restaurants.
Total gross employee pay 31% 88.4 67.5 The Executive Directors are also aligned to long-term performance through the PSP, which requires both Revenues 52% 375.7 247.6 good financial performance measured using adjusted Underlying EBITDA 93% 115.3 59.7 EPS and good investment performance relative to other companies measured using relative TSR over a Consideration by the Directors of matters relatingto period of three financial years.
Directors remuneration unaudited Details of the Groups KPIs are provided in the The following Non-executive Directors were members Strategic report onpage 19. of the Remuneration Committee during the year: Gwyn Burr, Chair: Andrew Griffith: and Diego Oliva.
com 71 Appendix to the Directors remuneration report continued For information only: Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy as set out below was approved by the Companys shareholders at the Companys 2015 AGM held on 13 May 2015.
The policy has been developed mindful of the new Corporate Governance Code and is felt to be appropriate to support the long-term success of the Company while ensuring that it does not promote inappropriate risk taking.
Executive 1, 2 Directors Base salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus Plan Element and This is the core element To provide benefits To provide retirement To motivate Executives purpose of pay and reflects the valued by recipients.
andincentivise delivery of individuals role and performance over a one-year position within the operating cycle, focusing on the Group with some short medium-term elements of adjustment to reflect our strategic aims.
Policy and Base salaries will be The Executive Directors Executive Directors Annual Bonus Plan levels and the operation reviewed each year by are reimbursed for their canreceive pension appropriateness of measures are the Committee.
commuting costs and contributions to reviewed annually at the associated tax liabilities personal pension commencement of each financial The Committee does not up to a value of arrangements or the year to ensure they continue to strictly follow data but 12,000.
Additionally, equivalent amount can support our strategy.
uses the median they receive a car be paid as a cash position as a reference Once set, performance measures allowance or company supplement in lieu of point in considering, in and targets will generally remain car in the case of the pension contributions its judgement, the unchanged for the year, except to CEO, private medical reduced for the impact appropriate level of reflect events such as corporate cover and insurance ofemployers NICs.
salary, having regard to acquisitions or other major benefits.
The Committee other relevant factors transactions where the reserves discretion to including corporate and Committee considers it to be introduce new benefits individual performance necessary in its opinion to make where it concludes that and any changes in an appropriate adjustments.
it is appropriate to do individuals role and Annual Bonus Plan outcomes are so, having regard to responsibilities.
paid in cash following the the particular Base salary is paid determination of achievement circumstances and monthly in cash.
against performance measures to market practice.
Where appropriate, the The Committee will keep under Company will meet review whether it is appropriate certain costs relating for bonuses to be partly deferred to Executive Director into shares.
Where such relocations and if arrangements are operated, necessary expatriate individuals would be able to benefits.
receive a dividend equivalent in cash or shares equal to the value of dividends which would have accrued during the vesting period.
Clawback provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan as explained in more detail on page 75.
Travel and hospitality While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid for bythe Company or another and business travel for Executive Directors, Non-executive Directors and the Chairman and exceptionally their families may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Deemed benefits from JSOP participation Payments to any Director in respect of the deemed cost of interest on loans relating to participation in the JSOP and, if relevant, the writing off of any such loans are benefits within the scope of the Directors remuneration policy.
The value of any such amounts is in addition to the maximum amounts stated in the table above for benefits for Executive Directors and for Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72 Corporate governance Executive 1, 2 Directors Base salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus Plan Maximum The Executive Directors It is not possible to The maximum The maximum level of Annual Bonus salaries will not be prescribe the likely employers Plan outcomes is 150% of base salary increased so as to exceed change in the cost contribution is per annum for the CEO and 120% for the median for the of insured benefits limited to up to any other Executive Director for the equivalent roles in or the cost of some 10%of base salary, duration of this policy.
companies listed on the of the other although it is London Stock Exchange reported benefits notcurrently with a market capitalisation year to year, but the anticipated that this ranking which places them provision of benefits will increase above within 30 above and 30 will operate within the current 5% level below that of the Company an annual limit of for the three-year at or around the time when 100,000 plus a life of this policy.
the Committee obtains such further 100% of benchmark data.
In practice, base salary in the the Company envisages, for case of relocations the three-year life of this and expatriate policy, further discounting benefits.
the data by 20% to reflect The Committee will the Companys high market monitor the costs of capitalisation to revenue benefits in practice ratio but reserves the right and will ensure that not to apply such discount the overall costs should it consider that to be donot increase by necessary to retain or recruit more than the appropriate Executives.
Committee Once a suitable market level considers is achieved, further increases appropriate in all would not normally be more the circumstances.
than the average awarded to staff generally.
Performance N A N A N A The performance measures applied measures may be financial or non-financial and corporate, divisional or individual and in such proportions as the Committee considers appropriate.
Attaining the threshold level of performance for any measure will not produce a pay-out of more than 25% of the maximum portion of overall annual bonus attributable to that measure, with a sliding scale to full pay-out for maximum performance.
However, the Annual Bonus Plan remains a discretionary arrangement and the Committee retains a standard power to apply its judgement to adjust the outcome of the Annual Bonus Plan for any performance measure from zero to any cap should it consider that to be appropriate.
com 73 Appendix to the Directors remuneration report continued For information only: Directors remuneration policy continued Executive Share ownership All-employee Directors Long-term incentives guidelines share plans Element and To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance To further align the To encourage share purpose over the long term, and to promote alignment with shareholders interests of Executive ownership by interests, the Group intends to operate the Performance Share Directors with those employees, thereby Plan PSP.
The Company also has the ability to grant market of shareholders.
allowing them to value options under an Employee Share Option Scheme share in the longESOS, although it is not currently intended that Executive term success of the Directors will receive awards under the ESOS.
Group and align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Policy and Awards under the PSP may be granted as nil-cost options, Executive Directors The Companyoperation conditional awards and forfeitable shares which vest to the are expected to operated Sharesave extent performance conditions are satisfied over a period of at retain 50% of the Scheme and Share least three years.
Ordinary Shares Incentive Plan are vesting under all all-employee share Under the PSP plan rules, vested awards may also be settled in cash.
share plans, after plans established The PSP rules allow that the number of shares subject to vested anydisposals for under HMRC PSP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends thepayment of tax-advantaged that would have been paid in respect of any ex-dividend dates applicable taxes, regimes and follow falling between the grant of awards and the expiry of any until they have theusual form for vesting and holding period for awards.
required level of Vested awards will be subject to a two-year holding period Executive Directors shareholding during which time awards may not be exercised or released but are able to participate currently 400% are no longer contingent on future employment.
in all-employee share of salary.
plans on the same Clawback provisions apply to PSP awards and are explained in termsas other Group more detail on the following page.
The Company will honour the vesting of all awards granted under previous policies in accordance with the terms of such awards: in particular, outstanding JSOP awards and related loans will continue on their terms.
Maximum The PSP allows for awards over shares with a maximum value as 400% of base salary The maximum at the date of award of 200% of base salary per financial year, for all Executive participation levels which may be increased to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
for all-employee share plans will be The ESOS allows for market value options over shares with a The Committee the limits for such maximum value as at the date of award of 300% of base salary reserves the power plans set by HMRC per financial year, which may be increased to 400% in to amend but not from time to time.
reduce these levels infuture years.
The Committee expressly reserves discretion to make such awards as it considers appropriate within these limits although, as stated above, it is not currently intended that Executive Directors will receive awards under the ESOS.
Performance The Committee may set such performance conditions on PSP N A Consistent with measures awards as it considers appropriate whether financial or normal practice, such non-financial andwhether corporate, divisional or individual.
awards are not subject to Once set, performance measures and targets will generally performance remain unaltered unless events occur which, in the Committees conditions.
opinion, make it appropriate to alter the performance conditions in such manner as the Committee thinks fit.
Performance periods may be over such periods as the Committee selects at grant, which will not normally be less than but may be longer than three years.
No more than 20% of awards vest for attaining the threshold level of performance conditions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74 Corporate governance Chairman and 1, 2 Non-executive Directors Chairman and Non-executive Director fees Element To enable the Company to recruit and retain a Chairman and Non-executive Directors of the highest and purpose calibre, at the appropriate cost.
Policy and The fees paid to the Chairman and to Non-executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully operation listed companies of equivalent size and complexity.
The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board.
The fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
All fees will be subject to periodic review.
For Non-executive Directors the fee structures may involve separate fees for chairing or for membership of Board Committees.
Non-executive Directors will not participate in any new cash or share incentive arrangements fromadmission.
No benefits are envisaged for the Non-executive Directors including the Chairman but the Company reserves the right to provide benefits including travel and office support within the prescribed limits.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Maximum The aggregate fees and any benefits of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors will not exceed the limit from time to time prescribed within the Companys Articles of Association for such fees currently 2 million per annum in aggregate.
Any increases actually made will be appropriately disclosed.
Clawback Variations in share capital Clawback being the ability of the Company to claim The LTIP and ESOS contain standard provisions that repayment of paid amounts as a debt within two years allow for the adjustment of awards to take account of payment provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan ofvariations in share capital, demergers, special and PSP in certain circumstances e. g. misstatement dividends, etc.
of accounts, miscalculation of vesting payouts and an act omission that justifies summary dismissal for Service contracts misconduct which has no time limit.
Executive Directors The Committees policy is that each Executive Stating maximum amounts for the remuneration policy Directors service agreement should be of indefinite The Directors Remuneration Report regulations and duration, subject to termination by the Company related investor guidance encourage companies to on12months notice or six months notice by the disclose a cap within which each element of the individual.
The service agreements of all Executive Directors remuneration policy will operate.
Where Directors comply with that policy.
maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have The service agreements reserve the right for the been set within the Directors remuneration policy, Company to make a payment in lieu of notice to an these will operate simply as caps andare not Executive Director for the amount of 1.2 and 1.1 times indicative of any aspiration.
for the CEO and CFO respectively of base salary forthe notice period if notice is served on or after Differences between the policy on remuneration 1January 2015. forDirectors and the policy on remuneration forotheremployees The small premium to base salary reflects the Companys While the appropriate benchmarks vary by role, the estimate of fixed benefits costs.
Such sums may be paid Company seeks to apply the philosophy behind this in instalments and would cease or be reduced if the policy across the Company as a whole.
Where Just individual finds analternative role.
Contracts do not Eats pay policy for Directors differs from its pay contain change of control provisions but do contain policies for groups of employees, this reflects the provisions allowing for summary termination.
appropriate market rate position for the relevant roles.
The Committee reserves flexibility, for an appropriate The Company takes into account pay levels, bonus candidate in exceptional circumstances only, to introduce opportunity and share awards applied across the a longer initial notice period of up to two years Group as a whole when setting the Executive reducing over time.
com 75 Appendix to the Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts continued The Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentives will Executive Directors continued operate including the maximum award levels as detailed The date of each Executive Directors contract is: in the general policy in relation to any newlyappointed Executive Director.
Any recruitment-related long-term Contract date incentive awards which are not buy-outs will be David Buttress 8 April 2014 subject to the limits as stated in the general policy Paul Harrison 21 June 2016 e. g. 300 per cent in the PSP.
Details ofany recruitmentrelated awards willbe appropriately disclosed.
The service agreements of the Executive Directors are For an internal appointment, any variable pay element available for inspection at the Companys registered awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue office during normal business hours and at the Companys on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new AGM, including during the 15 minutes preceding this.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors For external and internal appointments, the Committee Each Non-executive Director and the Chairman is may agree that the Company will meet certain engaged for an initial period of two years, subject to relocation expenses as it considers appropriate.
annual renewal at the AGM.
For Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, these engagements can be For external candidates, it may be necessary to make terminated by either partyonthree months notice.
additional awards in connection with the recruitment to buy out awards forfeited by the individual on leaving The Non-executive Directors cannot participate in a previous employer.
For the avoidance of doubt, new awards under the Companys incentive plans from buy-out awards are not subject to a formal cap.
admission, are not entitled to any pension benefits and are not entitled to any payment in compensation for For any buy-outs the Company will not pay more than early termination of their appointment beyond the is, in the view of the Committee, necessary and will in three months notice referred to above.
all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under the terms of the existing Annual Bonus For the Chairman and each Non-executive Director the Plan and long-term incentives.
It may, however, be effective date of their latest letter of appointment is: necessary in some cases to make buy-out awards on Name Date of appointment Term terms that are more bespoke than the existing Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentives.
John Hughes CBE 15 December 2011 2 years Frederic Coorevits 10 July 2009 2 years All buy-outs, whether under the Annual Bonus Plan, long-term incentives or otherwise, will take account of Andrew Griffith 12 March 2014 2 years the service obligations and performance requirements Gwyn Burr 12 March 2014 2 years for any remuneration relinquished by the individual Diego Oliva 24 September 2015 2 years when leaving a previous employer.
The Committee Roisin Donnelly 17 October 2016 2 years willseek to make buy-outs subject to what are, in itsopinion, comparable requirements in respect of The letters of appointment of the Non-executive service and performance.
Directors are available for inspection at the Companys However, the Committee may choose to relax this registered office during normal business hours and requirement in certain cases such as where the service atthe Companys AGM, including during the 15 minutes and or performance requirements are materially preceding this.
completed, or where such factors are, inthe view of the Committee, reflected in some other way, such as Recruitment remuneration policy asignificant discount to the face value of the awards The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to forfeited and where theCommittee considers it to be give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the in the interests ofshareholders.
appointment and promotion of high calibre Executives to strengthen the management team and secure the A new Non-executive Director would be recruited skillsets to deliver the Groups strategic aims.
onthe terms explained above in respect of the main policy for such Directors.
In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to apply the general policy for Executive Directors as set out on the previous pages and structure a package in accordance withthat policy.
Consistent with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the caps contained within the policy for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76 Corporate governance Termination policy summary It is appropriate for the Committee to consider treatment on a termination having regard for all of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination see Service contracts on pages 75 and 76 and any treatments that the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP plans.
The potential treatment on termination under these plans is summarised in the table below.
If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver, If a leaver is deemed to be a e. g. leaving through death or otherwise bad leaver, e. g. leaving for disciplinary Other exceptional cases, Incentives at the discretion of the Committee reasons or to join a competitor e. g. change in control Annual The Committee has the discretion to No awards made.
The Committee has the discretion Bonus determine the annual bonus which to determine the annual bonus.
Plan willtypically be limited to the period actually worked.
PSP Receive a pro-rated award subject to the All awards will normally lapse.
Receive a pro-rated award application of the performance conditions subject to the application of the at the end of the normal performance period.
performance conditions at the date of the event, subject to The Committee retains standard discretions standard Committee discretions to either vary time pro-rating or to accelerate to vary time pro-rating.
vesting and release any holding period to the earlier date of cessation determining the performance conditions at that time.
Under the JSOP, good leavers will retain the rights to Statement of consideration of employment any vested portions of their awards for a period and conditionselsewhere in the Group bad leavers will have their awards repurchased at cost.
Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are taken into account when setting Executive SIP and the Sharesave Scheme provide treatments for Directors remuneration.
leavers in line with HMRC rules for such plans.
The Committee receives regular updates on overall pay The Company has the power to enter into settlement and conditions in the Group, including but not limited agreements with Directors and to pay compensation to changes in base pay and any staff bonus pools in to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent operation.
There is also oversight of the all-employee with market practice, in the event of the termination share schemes which Executive Directors and all other of an Executive Director, the Company may pay a Group employees can participate in on the same terms contribution towards that individuals legal fees and and conditions.
fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of Reflecting standard practice, the Company did not the detail of termination arrangements.
For the consult with employees in preparing this avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an RemunerationReport.
explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
External appointments The Companys policy is to permit an Executive Director to serve as a Non-executive Director elsewhere when this does not conflict with the individuals duties to the Company and, where an Executive Director takes such a role, they will be entitled to retain any fees which they earn from that appointment.
