Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy summary Introduction Kiers remuneration policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, will continue to apply in the 2017 financial year.
Accordingly, we will not be seeking shareholder approval for a revised policy at the 2016 AGM.
As it did last year, the Committee has decided to include the policy table and certain other extracts from the policy in this years reportfor ease of reference and so as to provide context for the decisions taken by the Committee during the year.
Where relevant, references to targets in the policy have been updated to refer to 2017 targets, together with certain other non-material changes.
Thefull policy is set out on pages 69 to 76 inclusive of the 2014 Annual Report, which can be found on Kiers website at http: www.
A summary of the Groups policy for each element of an Executive Directors remuneration is set out in the table below: Policy table Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually by reference to an individuals experience, performance and role within Any increase will typically be in line with those awarded to the Continued strong performance.
To attract and retain the Group, the external market including FTSE companies of a similar size and sector peers and any wideremployee population.
The Committee has discretion Executive Directors of increase awarded to the wider employee population.
toaward higher increases in circumstances that it considers the calibre required to appropriate, suchasa material change in the complexity Any increase is typically effective from 1 July.
deliver the Groups ofthebusiness or an .
salarychanges will be disclosed inthe Annual Report.
Benefits Benefits are reviewed from time to time and typically include, but are not limited to, a company Benefits are set at a level which the Committee considers None.
To provide benefits carorcar allowance, private health insurance and life assurance.
appropriate in light of the market and an individuals circumstances.
which are competitive In certain circumstances, the Committee may also approve the provision of additional benefits with themarket.
or allowances for example, the relocation of an Executive Director to perform his or her role.
SAYE Scheme An HMRC-approved scheme allowing all employees, including Executive Directors, to save up to The maximum amount that may be saved is the limit prescribed None.
To encourage ownership themaximum limit specified by HMRC rules.
Options are granted at up to a 20% discount.
by HMRC or such other lower limit as determined by the Committee of the Companys at the time employees are invited to participate in the scheme.
Typically, employees are invited to participate on anannual basis.
SIP An HMRC-approved scheme which is open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Group Participants can purchase shares up to the prevailing limit None.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
approved byHMRC or such other lower limit as determined of the Companys bythe Committee atthe time they are invited to participate.
The plan allows employees to purchase shares out of pre-tax income.
The Company currently offers to match purchases made The Company may match shares purchased with an award of free shares.
Matching shares may throughthe plan at the rate of one free share for every two beforfeited if employees leave within three years of their award, in accordance with the SIP rules.
The plan trustee can reinvest cash dividends to acquire further shares on behalf of participants.
Pension Executive Directors participate in a defined contribution scheme.
For current Executive Directors, the maximum employer None.
To provide a retirement contribution is20% of pensionable salary.
benefit which is Executive Directors may elect to receive all or part of the competitive with employer contribution as a taxable cash supplement.
Annual bonus The Company operates a discretionary bonus scheme.
The current maximum potential bonus is 100% of base salary.
The performance measures and targets for the 2017 financial To reward the delivery of year are profit 50%, cash 40% and health and safety 10%.
Performance measures and targets are set by the Committee at the start of the year.
Payments Threshold performance, for which an element of bonus may near-term performance are based on an assessment of performance at the end of the year.
become payable under each component of the annual bonus, The Committee has discretion to determine the measures targets and business isset by the Committee at the start of each financial year.
andtheir relative weightings each year.
One-third of any award is deferred for three years subject to early release for good leavers non-financial measures will be nohigher than 25% of the and satisfied in Kier Group plc shares.
The level of bonus for achieving threshold performance varies maximum potential bonus.
byperformance measure, and may vary for a measure from Past awards of deferred shares are subject to forfeiture if an individuals employment is terminated yearto year, toensure that it is aligned with the Committees The Committee has discretion to adjust bonus payments to in circumstances of gross misconduct and or justifying summary dismissal and or the Groups profit assessment of the degree of difficulty or stretch in achieving it.
ensure that they accurately reflect business performance over before tax or cash position for the relevant year is found to have been misstated.
the performance period and are fair toshareholders as well asrecipients.
Awards of deferred shares made from 2014 will include a revised malus provision.
See Malus on page 82. Dividend payments accrue on deferred bonus shares over the deferral period.
Actual targets for each performance measure and performance against each of these targets, and any use bythe Committee of its discretion with respect to bonus payments, will be disclosed in the Annual Report immediately following the end ofthe performance period.
78 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Introduction Kiers remuneration policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, will continue to apply in the 2017 financial year.
79 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy summary continued Policy table continued Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures LTIP Awards are made annually and vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end The maximum award under the rules of the plan is 200% of The performance conditions for the LTIP awards to be awarded To reward the sustained of a three-year performance period.
in the 2017 financial year will relate to EPS 50%, TSR 25% strong performance and net debt:EBITDA 25%.
At the start of each performance period, the Committee sets performance targets which it considers The Committee may grant awards of up to the maximum permitted bythe Group over to be appropriately stretching.
under the LTIP rules when it considers it appropriate to do so.
EPS performance is measured by compound cumulative growth threeyears.
The reasons for an award in excess of 150% of salary will be over the performance period.
Awards are satisfied in the form of a deferred, contingent right to acquire shares in the Company, disclosed inthe relevant Annual Report.
atno cost to the individual.
TSR outperformance is measured on a multiplicative basis On achieving the threshold performance level for each element relative to a revenue-weighted index based on the FTSE All LTIP awards granted from 2014 will include a malus provision.
See Malus on page 82. ofthe award, 25% of the relevant element of the award will vest.
Share Construction & Materials Index and the FTSE All Share Vesting isona straight-line basis between threshold and maximum Support Services Index.
If TSR outperformance is used in future If an event or series of events occurs as a result of which the Committee deems it fair that the levels ofperformance.
award cycles, the revenue weightings will be fixed performance conditions should be waived or modified, the Committee has discretion during the vesting based on the Groups approximate revenue mix in the year prior period to waive or modify them.
Any modified performance conditions must be no more difficult to to grant.
satisfy than the original performance conditions were when first set.
The Committee retains discretion to supplement EPS and TSR Any use of Committee discretion with respect to waiving or modifying performance conditions will be with additional performance measures to ensure that the disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
awards are always linked to sustained business performance.
No measure will carry a weighting of less than 25%.
Actual performance measures and weightings will be disclosed in the Annual Report immediately following thegranting of anaward.
80 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Policy table continued Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures LTIP Awards are made annually and vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end The maximum award under the rules of the plan is 200% of The performance conditions for the LTIP awards to be awarded To reward the sustained of a three-year performance period.
81 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy summary continued Payments from outstanding awards Selection of performance measures and approach to setting targets The Company will honour any commitment entered into, The measures used for the annual bonus are determined annually and Executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment to reflect KPIs which are considered important and relevant to the from any award made, prior to the approval and introduction Group.
The Committee believes that using a number of measures of the remuneration policy with effect from the AGM on provides a balanced incentive.
The measures themselves are 13 November 2014. aligned to, and are designed to support the delivery of, the Groups strategy.
Notes to the policy table Malus In relation to the LTIP awards, the Committee believes that the Deferred annual bonus awards made before 2014 include the combination of EPS, TSR and net debt:EBITDA clearly aligns malus provision described in the table above, whereas deferred performance to shareholders interests and the Groups long-term annual bonus and LTIP awards granted from 2014 onwards are strategy.
EPS is a key measure of long-term underlying and will be subject to revised malus provisions.
TSR is intended to measure managements contribution to the creation of value for These allow the Committee to determine, in its absolute shareholders.
A revenue-weighted index based on the FTSE All discretion, that i an unvested LTIP award or part of an award Share Construction &Materials Index and FTSE All Share Support may not vest or that the level of vesting is reduced and or Services Index reflects the Groups mix of business.
Cash ii the number of deferred shares allocated in part satisfaction and, therefore, net debt is an important financial measure of the annual bonus is reduced including to nil in certain inthecontracting sector.
Infuture years, the Committee may circumstances.
Examples of such circumstances include, decideto select other performance measures.
butarenot limited to: Targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP awards are reviewed A material misstatement of the Groups financial statements: before the awards are made, based on a number of internal and A material error in determining the level of satisfaction of external reference points.
The Committee intends that targets aperformance condition or target: willbe stretching but achievable and will align managements A participant deliberately misleading the Company, the market interests with those of shareholders.
and or shareholders in relation to the financial performance ofthe Group: and Differences from remuneration policy for other employees A participants employment being terminated in circumstances Kiers approach to setting annual remuneration is broadly of gross misconduct and or circumstances justifying consistent across the Group.
Consideration is given to the summarydismissal.
experience, performance and responsibilities of individuals aswell as publicly available external benchmarking data, to the The Committee has the right to apply the malus provision to an extent considered necessary or appropriate.
Certain grades of individual or on a collective basis.
senior employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar performance measures to those used for Executive Director shareholding guidelines theExecutive Directors.
Maximum opportunities and specific The Committee encourages Executive Directors to accumulate performance measures vary by seniority, with business-specific ashareholding in the Company of at least two years base measures applied where appropriate.
Senior managers currently, salaryover a period of up to five years.
Executive Directors are approximately 250 individuals are also eligible to participate in encouraged to retain any shares allocated to them as part of the the LTIP.
The performance measures for each LTIP award cycle annual bonus arrangements and 50% of the shares allocated to are typically the same for all participants although the rules them upon the vesting of LTIP awards net of tax until they reach ofthe LTIP permit the Committee to grant LTIP awards using this level of shareholding.
Award sizes vary according toseniority and responsibility.
82 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Approach to remuneration on recruitment External appointment When recruiting a new Executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration.
In addition, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under an alternative scheme or arrangement in order to facilitate recruitment of an individual, subject to the policy set out below: Component Approach Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the appointees current base salary.
Where a new appointee hasan initial base salary set below the market median, any subsequent adjustment will be managed by the Committee, using where appropriate phased increases and subject to the individuals development in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the remuneration policy, which may also include butare not limited to any necessary expenses relating to expatriation or relocation on recruitment.
SAYE Scheme New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
SIP New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions of up to 20% of pensionable salary into a defined contribution pension arrangement or an equivalent taxable cash supplement or a combination of both.
Annual bonus The annual bonus structure described in the remuneration policy will apply to new appointees including the maximum opportunity, pro rated in the year of joining to reflect the proportion of that year employed.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares.
LTIP New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIP of up to 200% of salary, as contemplated by the remuneration policy.
Buy-out awards The Committee may consider it appropriate to grant a buy-out award with respect to either a bonus or a sharebased incentive scheme under an alternative scheme or arrangement in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual.
When doing so, the Committee may, to the extent required, exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
Any such buy-out award would have a fair value of no higher than that of the award forfeited.
Ingranting any such award, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
When considering any performance conditions, the Committee will, where appropriate, take into account those used in the Companys own incentive arrangements.
Where appropriate, the Committee will also consider whether it is necessary to introduce further retention measures for an individual for example, extended deferral periods.
In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that the arrangements are in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
Internal promotion When recruiting a new Executive Director through internal promotion, the Committee will set remuneration in a manner consistent with the policy for external appointments set out above other than with respect to buy-out awards.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these commitments.
The remuneration of individuals below the Board is typically not greater than for Executive Directors.
83 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Report Directors remuneration policy summary continued Service contracts A summary of the key elements of the Executive Directors service agreements insofar as they relate to remuneration is as follows: Term of contract Summary of provisions Notice period 12 months notice both to and from the Executive Director.
Payment in lieu of Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by undertaking to make a PILON comprising base notice PILON salary, accrued but untaken holiday entitlement, pension contributions or allowance, car allowance and privatemedical insurance.
The Company is entitled to make the PILON on a phased basis, so that any outstanding payment s would bereduced or stopped ifalternative employment is obtained.
Change of control There are no payments due upon a change of control, although deferred bonus will be released.
Entitlements on There is no contractual entitlement to notice or any other payments in respect of the period after cessation of termination employment in circumstances in which the individual is summarily dismissed.
In such circumstances, deferred bonus shares will be forfeited and LTIP awards will lapse.
If the individual is not a bad leaver and any malus provision is not applied, deferred bonus shares will be released upon cessation of employment and the position with respect to LTIP awards is as set out under Payments for loss of office below.
If not required to take any remaining holiday entitlement during his her notice period, the Executive Director will receive a payment for any accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
It is expected that these terms will apply to any service agreements entered into with Executive Directors during the period in which this remuneration policy will apply.
Payments for loss of office The Companys policy on payments for loss of office is as follows: Component Approach Annual bonus Individuals who are considered to be good leavers may be considered for a bonus in relation to the year inwhich their active employment ceases.
Any payment will normally be pro rated for length of service and performance during the year.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to review the performance of theindividual and the Group in general and, having done so, determine that a different level of bonus paymentwould be appropriate.
Deferred shares allocated in part satisfaction of annual bonuses may be released to an individual upon cessation of employment if s he is considered to be a good leaver.
Otherwise, they will be released at the end of the three-year holding period.
LTIP If an Executive Directors employment ceases for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company or his her employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group or such other circumstances approved by the Committee, outstanding awards are retained.
The Committee may also at its discretion permit unvested LTIP awards to vest on an accelerated basis or alternatively be retained until the vesting date.
Unvested LTIP awards will, subject to Committee discretion, normally be pro rated for length of service during the performance period and will, subject to performance, normally vest at the same time as all otherawards in the LTIP award cycle.
A malus provision also applies to all LTIP awards granted from 2014.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards automatically lapse, unless the Committee exercises its discretion otherwise taking into account the factors detailed immediately following this table.
SIP and SAYE The Executive Directors are subject to the same leaver provisions as all other participants, as prescribed Scheme by the rules of the relevant scheme or plan.
Other If the Company terminates an Executive Directors employment by reason of redundancy, the Company will make a redundancy payment to the Executive Director in line with his service agreement, any applicable collective bargaining agreement and applicable law and regulation.
The Company may make a contribution towards an Executive Directors legal fees for advice relating to a compromise or settlement agreement and may also make other payments connected to the departure for example, for outplacement services.
With respect to any such payments, the Committee will authorise what it considers to be reasonable in the circumstances.
Change of control Deferred bonus shares will be released, any outstanding LTIP awards may vest early subject to the Committees discretion, having taken into account current and forecast progress against the performance condition s, the proportion of the vesting period which has elapsed and any other factors considered by the Committee to be relevant and the rules of the SIP and the SAYE Scheme will apply.
No payments are due under the Executive Directors service agreements upon a change of control.
84 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Where appropriate, the Committee will oblige the individual to mitigate his her losses and either offset any alternative remuneration received by the individual against any payments made by the Company for loss of office or reduce any payments to be made by the Company for loss of office to take account of any failure to mitigate when, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the individual has failed actively to do so.
In exercising discretion in respect of any of the elements referred to above, the Committee will take into account all factors which it considers to be appropriate at the relevant time.
These include, but are not limited to: the duration of the Executive Directors service: the Committees assessment of the Executive Directors contribution to the success of the Group: whether the Executive Director has worked any notice period or whether a payment in lieu of notice is being made: the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties: and the need to compromise any claims which the Executive Director may have.
Any use of Committee discretion will be disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Employees are not formally consulted on the Executive Directors remuneration and were not consulted during the preparation of theremuneration policy set out above.
However, the Groups employee engagement survey provides an opportunity for employees toprovide their opinion on their own remuneration arrangements and also on other matters across the Group.
The Committee takes into account the overall pay and employment conditions of employees within the Group when making decisions on the Executive Directors remuneration.
Accordingly, the Committee i is provided with information about the proposed annual Group-wide pay review when setting the Executive Directors salaries, ii is made aware of the approximate outcomes of annual bonuses and iii sets the LTIP performance targets which typically apply to all participants in the annual LTIP award cycle.
Consideration of shareholder views The views of shareholders, and guidance from shareholder representative bodies, are important to the Committee and provide the context for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Committee intends to review the remuneration policy during the 2017 financial year and will consult with shareholders if it decides that material changes need to be made to it.
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy General The Non-Executive Directors remuneration including that of the Chairman reflects the anticipated time commitment to fulfil their duties.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive bonuses, long-term incentive awards, a pension or compensation on termination of their appointments.
The policy on Non-Executive Directors fees is as follows: Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Fees may be increased in line Continued strong performance.
Fees Fee levels are reviewed annually with reference to with the outcome of the annual To attract and retain individual experience, the review and will not normally Non-Executive Directors external market and the exceed the increase awarded to of the calibre required expected time commitment the wider employee population.
and with appropriate skills and experience.
Higher increases may be awarded should there be a material Additional fees are payable change to the requirements to the Chairs of the Boards of the role, such as additional committees and to the Senior time commitment.
Any changes to fees will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
Recruiting Non-Executive Directors When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will follow the policy set out in the table above.
85 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
