Governance Directors Remuneration Report Clare Chapman Clare Chapman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of Remuneration Committee Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Contents 51 Annual Statement from the Dear Shareholder Chairman of the Remuneration I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for Committee the year ended 31 January 2016 on behalf of the Board.
56 At a glance This remuneration report is split into two sections: 57 Directors Remuneration Policy the new Directors Remuneration Policy: and 64 Annual Report on Remuneration the Annual Report on Remuneration.
72 Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 17 Strategic transformation Over the year, the Board has developed Kingfishers new strategic direction which was announced at the Capital Markets Day on 25 January 2016.
Our updated strategy and five year plan will transform how Kingfisher operates so that we can become the leading home improvement provider in Europe and unlock the value in the business for our shareholders.
In the context of this major strategic transformation, we have reviewed our remuneration arrangements to ensure that we have the right incentives to support the delivery of the new strategy.
We determined that there was a requirement for the redesign of reward to focus on value creation and long-term share ownership in order to align the executives with the business transformation and the delivery of outcomes committed to shareholders at the Capital Markets Day.
We have therefore designed a new remuneration structure that is based around: a simplified annual package for executives comprised of fixed pay, a reduced cash bonus, and a new element called Alignment Shares which is based on balance sheet and business health metrics measured over three years: www.
com 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued a Transformation Incentive linked to improving EPS and ROCE Outcomes for 2015 16 remuneration over the five year strategy period as laid out at the Capital Markets Retail profit grew 7.4% at constant exchange rates.
The achievement Day: and of above target performance in the UK and Poland offset a continuation an increased shareholding requirement to above the market upper of subdued conditions in our French market, resulting in a strong level quartile 350% and 250% of salary respectively for the CEO and of performance overall for Kingfisher.
CFO, including a requirement to hold shares for up to two years The 2015 16 incentive outcomes reflect this performance picture, with after leaving Kingfisher.
the Committee determining that 69.1% of the maximum annual bonus The resulting package has significantly increased the focus on longopportunity should pay out for both the CEO and CFO.
This has all been achieved with a package that There were no LTIPs vesting in respect of the performance period delivers no more than previously at on-target performance, is lower ending in 2015 16.
The next LTIP due to vest will be based on than the package of the previous CEO, and remains conservatively performance ending in 2016 17. positioned against FTSE 100 and retail sector norms.
We will be looking to develop the reward structure for our Kingfisher colleagues Implementation of policy to ensure that they all have the opportunity to share in the success of the transformation plan.
Kevin OByrne left the Board in May 2015.
His remuneration was treated in line with policy.
Further details of this and the rationale for The following pages set out the full details of and rationale for this the treatment are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Vronique Laurys salary will increase by 7.9% from 1 April 2016 Shareholder engagement reflecting our previously stated intention to bring her towards the market median following her appointment as CEO last year.
Karen In early 2016, the Committee consulted extensively with our Witts salary is being increased by 4.5% to bring her towards the largest shareholders and their representative bodies on our median for the retail sector, which the Committee believes is new remuneration structure.
important in light of the strategic transformation the business is We were pleased by the level and quality of engagement and undertaking.
The proposed approach to salaries is explained with the support received for our principles and proposed design.
in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
We welcomed the constructive feedback provided through the consultation process and this has been taken on board in our final 2016 Annual General Meeting proposals.
To align incentives with the creation of long-term value, I very much hope you will support our proposed Remuneration Policy our proposed remuneration arrangements are a departure from along with our 2015 16 Directors Annual Report on Remuneration at the traditional UK executive pay model in some respects.
our forthcoming AGM in June.
I will be available at the meeting to Shareholders appreciated: answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
the reduced focus on annual bonus: Clare Chapman the increased five year performance period for the long-term Chairman of the Remuneration Committee incentive Transformation Incentive : and 23 March 2016 the balance between the short-term strategic objectives on the annual bonus, and the long-term business and financial measures on the equity elements of pay.
Shareholders also supported other aspects of leading practice that we have introduced, including: the five year holding from grant on both equity-based incentives: the increased shareholding requirements that will be above the upper quartile for the FTSE 25 to 75: and the extension of shareholding requirements to apply to executives after leaving the Company.
Finally, shareholders understood the intent behind the changes we were making and the fact that these changes did not materially impact total compensation levels, which remain no more than market competitive against the FTSE 25 to 75.
52 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 52 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Our new remuneration policy On 25 January 2016, Kingfisher announced the details of our new strategy.
The nature and extent of the transformation Kingfisher will undergo as a result of this new strategy is set out in detail in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report.
During the review of our strategy, it rapidly became clear that Kingfisher would need a different approach to remuneration to ensure that incentives were fully aligned with the delivery of the transformation.
The Committee wanted to keep an open mind and take a bespoke approach that was truly tailored to our strategy.
Our discussions led us to four key principles for our review of remuneration: Remuneration principles Encouraging all employees to become substantial long-term shareholders Share ownership acting as transparent performance pay aligned to shareholders Employees as Holding shares for the long-term even after leaving the business shareholders Reducing and simplifying the annual bonus and placing greater focus on the long-term incentives Prioritising Prioritising long-term value creation over short-term financial goals long term Setting genuinely long-term and stretching performance targets over five years value Focusing incentives on team performance to create collective accountability Setting strategic targets and ensuring robust performance management and leaver treatment Supporting our culture Maintaining fairness through a consistent cascade of pay structures Introducing simple plans linked to our strategy and the principle of ownership Paying people in a way that motivates them and in a form that they value Simple and e ective Awarding long-term incentives to those with the most impact on the transformation Under these principles we developed our new remuneration structure of which the key components are: a simplified annual package for executives comprising of fixed pay, a significantly reduced cash bonus based on strategic milestones, and Alignment Shares based on performance against balance sheet and business health metrics over three years: a single Transformation Incentive for executives to deliver our five year financial plan, replacing the Performance Share Plan awards that would have been made in 2016, 2017, and 2018: and an increased shareholding requirement of 350% of salary for the CEO and 250% for the CFO and any other executive director.
The shareholding requirement applies in full for one year after leaving Kingfisher and to 50% for two years after leaving Kingfisher.
com 53 Directors Remuneration Report continued The graphic below illustrates how the new structure operates: FY16 17 FY17 18 FY18 19 FY19 20 FY20 21 FY21 22 Transformation Subject to EPS and ROCE Vested award incentive performance conditions over 5 years Up to 4x Target award Target award level: CEO: 220% of salary Vested award must be held CFO: 200% of salary as needed to meet Transformation shareholding requirement incentive awarded every three years 100% of Alignment 25% of award vests immediately Alignment Shares 75% of award subject to an Shares must be held for Max 80% of salary 2 year a minimum of underpin over 3 years holding 5 years from grant, dividend and lease adjusted period net debt EBITDAR ratio and thereafter until shareholding requirement met Annual Annual Bonus Annual Bonus is assesed against Package Max 80% of salary key strategic milestones Pension Shareholding requirement: CEO: 350% Salary CFO: 250% Shares Cash Rationale for new structure Our strategic goals are directly connected to the remuneration structure so that remuneration supports what we are trying to achieve as a company, as illustrated below: Strategic transformation Balance sheet health Returns to shareholders 500m Unique & Maintain sustainable c. 600m Operational Control net Improved unied Digital profit uplift capital dividend eciency debt EBITDAR ROCE o er cover from return 2020 21 Annual Bonus Alignment Shares Transformation Incentive Based on the achievement of key Supports share ownership and Granted to create a simple and strategic milestones linked to the shareholder alignment amongst strong incentive to deliver the transformation plan.
transformation plan as set out This will incentivise the execution Incentivises long-term balance at the Capital Markets Day.
of key activities required to deliver sheet strength and financial health.
A five year performance period the strategy whilst overall financial Performance measures based on aligns with the commitments made performance of the business is dividend, dividend cover and lease at the Capital Markets Day, enabling recognised in the Transformation adjusted net debt to EBITDAR ratio, executives to focus on a single Incentive.
with further performance linkage clear set of targets over five years.
The new Annual Bonus is less than through long-term shareholding.
Performance conditions will be half the level of the previous structure directly aligned with material in order to shift the package more improvements to profitability and towards long-term performance returns, in line with these and results.
For simplicity, and given the much The chosen performance measures lower opportunity, the new Annual are EPS and ROCE, both measured Bonus will be paid wholly in cash.
These measures balance growth and returns, and directly align to value creation for shareholders.
54 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 54 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance The changes to the structure significantly increase the long-term nature of the package, in terms of the proportion held in shares and the overall term of incentives.
The package is simplified for executives, with each element playing a clearly defined role.
Overall, the risk profile is increased with tougher performance conditions on the Transformation Incentive and the shift from shortto long-term incentives balancing the introduction of Alignment Shares which are themselves subject to performance conditions and long vesting and holding periods.
As a result the overall economic value of the package is broadly unchanged.
Focus on long term sustainable value The remuneration structure has been reweighted towards the long-term with the average total term for incentives being increased from 2.8 years to 4.3 years.
The chart below shows the proportion of each reward element making up the total reward under the current structure and the proposed structure, based on achievement of the maximum value for the CEO.
CEO Current Performance Share Plan Fixed pay Cash Bonus Deferred Bonus structure CEO Fixed pay Cash Bonus Alignment Shares Transformation incentives Proposed structure Cash Shares Long term share ownership is a key feature of the new remuneration structure and aligns executives with shareholders and the long term success of the Company.
Shareholding requirements have been increased to: 350% of salary for CEO 250% of salary for CFO and any other executive director In addition, 100% of the shareholding requirement will apply for the first year after leaving and 50% for the second year in order to maintain alignment with the Company for a period post departure.
Broadly similar economic value Higher value can be delivered for very strong performance, but due to the tougher calibration of targets the economic value is roughly the same.
CEO CFO 5,000 5,000 4,000 4,000 3,000 3,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 0 0 Economic value Maximum value Economic value Maximum value Current Proposed Current Proposed Note: Economic value reects xed pay, target bonus, and the value of long-term incentives taking into account timeframes and probability of meeting performance conditions.
Awards under the Transformation Incentive are annualised over 3 years for comparability with the current package.
Base salary reects the average salary over the policy period.
com 55 Total Package Value 000s Total Package Value 000s Directors Remuneration Report continued At a glance Remuneration Policy New remuneration structure The table below sets out a summary of how the new remuneration structure will apply during the 2016 17 financial year.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy and in the Statement of Implementation of Policy for 2016 17.
Remuneration element New remuneration structure Base salary 2016 salaries as follows: CEO: 755k 7.9% increase effective from 1 April 2016 CFO: 575k 4.5% increase effective from 1 April 2016 Pension contribution No change to current pension cash alternative rates of: CEO: 12.5% CFO: 17.5% Maximum bonus of 80% of salary Annual bonus Based on strategic milestones Bonus paid in cash Annual award of 80% of salary, dependent on good personal performance over the period prior to grant.
Alignment Shares 25% of award vests immediately but must be held for five years.
75% of award vests after three years subject to underpin conditions, and subject to a further two year holding period.
Following release from the holding period, 100% of shares must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
The underpin conditions will be as follows: Maintenance of the dividend subject to dividend cover being above 1.75x: and Maintenance of the ratio of lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR below 2.5x.
If one underpin condition is not met then up to 50% of the unvested shares would lapse.
If both are not met then up to 100% of the unvested shares would lapse.
A single Transformation Incentive granted after the 2016 AGM, replacing three years of the long-term Transformation Incentive incentive awards.
Target award of 220% of salary for the CEO and 200% for the CFO with a 4x multiplier for exceptional performance, meaning an annualised equivalent of 293% and 267% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively for exceptional performance.
Five year performance period with performance based 50% each on ROCE and EPS as follows: EPS Growth p. a.
2020 21 ROCE Pay-out Multiple 50% of award 50% of award Zero 4% 12% 1x Target 6.5% 13% 2x Target 9% 14% 3x Target 12% 15% 4x Target 16% 17% 50% of vested shares must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Shareholding target of 350% of salary for the CEO, 250% for the CFO and any other executive director.
Shareholding Guidelines Upon leaving, 100% of shareholding requirement applies for one year and 50% for a further year.
2015 16 Outcomes Set out below are the key remuneration outcomes for 2015 16.
Single total figure of remuneration Taxable 000 Base salary benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Vronique Laury 700.0 228.1 967.4 87.5 1,983.0 Karen Witts 550.0 29.0 760.1 96.3 1,435.4 Bonus Vronique Payout as % maximum Weighting Laury Karen Witts Financial element 80% 62.6% 62.6% Personal element 20% 95.0% 95.0% Total 69.1% 69.1% Payout value 000 967.4 760.1 LTIP No LTIPs vested in respect of the performance period ending in 2015 16.
The next LTIP due to vest will be based on performance ending in 2016 17.
56 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 56 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy is set out in this section.
This policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM to be held on 15 June 2016.
The Policy is intended to apply, subject to shareholder approval, for three years from the 2016 AGM.
Where a material change to this policy is considered, the Company will consult with major shareholders prior to submitting to all shareholders for approval.
The Remuneration Policy will be displayed on the Companys website kingfisher.
Future Policy Table Base salary Element and purpose Maximum opportunity Base salary reflects the individuals role, experience and contribution to Maximum increase of 8% per annum.
the Company and is set at levels that support the recruitment and retention Increases awarded each year will be set out in the Statement of executive directors of the calibre required by the Company.
Operation Assessment of performance Base salaries are set with reference to two primary comparator groups: Individual performance is an important factor considered by i FTSE 25 75 excluding financial services organisations, and ii FTSE 100 the Committee when reviewing base salary each year.
retailers and privately held retailers which are considered to be of a similar Changes size and market capitalisation to the Company.
The Committee also takes Introduction of an 8% per annum limit on the salary increase.
account of pay levels at other large European retailers.
Alternative peer groups may need to be referenced depending on the business circumstances or domicile of individual executive directors outside the UK.
Base salaries are paid monthly in cash.
Benefits Element and purpose Maximum opportunity Benefits are provided to assist executive directors in the performance of Maximum levels of benefit provision are: their roles and are designed to be competitive and cost effective.
Car allowance 25,000 per annum Operation Private medical insurance on a family basis The Company may provide pension contributions set out below, a company Life assurance cover of 4x base salary see notes car or cash alternative, an allowance for financial planning, medical insurance, Financial planning at 2,500 per annum and life assurance cover.
Other benefits may be provided from time to time if The cost of providing insurance benefits varies according to considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, such as relocation premium rates so there is no formal maximum monetary value.
allowances, and will be explained in the next Annual Report on Remuneration.
Any relocation allowance will be limited to 50% of base salary The Company pays the cost of providing benefits on a monthly basis or inclusive of any tax payable on expenses reimbursed as required for one-off events such as financial planning advice.
Store discount of up to 20% is offered.
Store discount may be offered to all directors on the same basis as offered Assessment of performance to other Company employees.
Changes Clarification of a limit of 50% of salary for relocation support.
Pension Element and purpose Maximum opportunity To provide retirement benefits, support retirement planning, and provide Maximum employer contribution into a defined contribution scheme a competitive fixed pay package.
of 14% of base salary or a cash alternative of 12.5% of base salary.
Operation For Karen Witts, in line with historic opportunity levels, the defined contribution rate is 20% of base salary and the cash alternative Pension provision for executive directors is by way of contributions to rate is 17.5% of base salary.
a defined contribution scheme or cash allowance.
Changes The ongoing policy level, including for new joiners, has been reduced to 14% of salary equivalent to 12.5% cash alternative, in line with the wider UK workforce.
com 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Bonus Element and purpose Assessment of performance To incentivise executive directors to achieve or exceed annual strategic The specific measures, targets and weightings may vary from year objectives set by the Committee at the start of each financial year.
to year in order to align with the Companys strategy over each year.
Operation The measures will be dependent on the Companys goals over the year under review and directly link to the key measurable strategic milestones Annual Bonuses are earned over the year and paid in cash after the end to incentivise executives to focus on the execution of the strategy.
of the financial year to which they relate, based on performance against targets over the year.
The performance targets are calibrated each year to align with the announced strategic plan.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the bonus outcome in light of overall underlying performance.
Any adjustment made using this discretion The actual performance targets set are not disclosed at the start of will be explained in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
the financial year, as they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
Where no longer commercially sensitive, performance targets and Malus and clawback applies under circumstances as set out in the notes outcomes will be disclosed following the payment of bonuses.
Changes Maximum opportunity Reduced maximum opportunity from 200% of salary to 80% and wholly The maximum Annual Bonus award is 80% of base salary.
The level of payment at threshold is set on an annual basis but will not Performance measures changed from financial and personal to strategic.
Reflects a reduced emphasis on bonus within the overall package to ensure a focus on long-term results and the annual execution of strategic milestones.
Alignment Shares Element and purpose Assessment of performance To align executives with the long-term health of the Company and Alignment Shares have two underpin conditions to ensure balance sheet with shareholder returns by providing a long-term share award subject and business health: to underpinning business health conditions, while ensuring competitive maintenance of the dividend subject to a dividend cover test: and total reward.
assessment of the ratio of lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR.
Operation The performance targets are calibrated to be robust in the context of Alignment Shares are awarded annually subject to good the announced strategic plan.
If one condition is not met then up to 50% of the unvested shares 25% of the Alignment Shares vest immediately to create an immediate would lapse.
If both are not met then up to 100% of the unvested alignment with shareholders but must be held for five years from the shares would lapse.
Performance will be considered each year and any reduction will apply The remaining 75% of the award vests after three years, subject to to the award next due to vest.
the achievement of an underpin.
Awards vesting under this portion The specific metrics may vary in future years in order to align with the are subject to a two year holding period.
Companys strategy, but will always include objective financial metrics, Dividend equivalents are payable in respect of the shares that vest.
which will be set out prospectively in each Annual Report on Remuneration.
Malus and clawback applies under circumstances as set out in the In the event that the lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR ratio is notes to the policy table.
exceeded due to a Board-approved acceleration of investment plans then Change of control provisions apply as set out in the notes to the policy table.
the Remuneration Committee may apply discretion to allow vesting.
In these circumstances the Committee may delay vesting by a further year to ensure Maximum opportunity sustainability of performance.
Annual award of 80% of salary.
Changes New element of remuneration.
Designed to align executives with shareholders, in a simple and transparent way, and which are subject to sustainable long-term performance.
Transformation Incentive Element and purpose Assessment of performance To incentivise executives to deliver improved growth and returns for Awards granted will vest based on performance over five years against shareholders by executing the transformation plan.
To retain executives the following performance measures: and provide market competitive total reward.
50% EPS compound annual growth to 2020 21 Performance conditions are aligned with shareholder interests and the 50% ROCE performance in 2020 21 commitments made to investors at the January 2016 Capital Markets Day.
The performance measures have been chosen to balance growth Operation and returns and ensure sustainable delivery of performance.
Awards are granted once every three years, subject to a five year vesting The performance targets are calibrated such that a level of performance period and stretching performance conditions throughout the five year above the Capital Markets Day commitments is required in order to performance period.
achieve the maximum 4x multiple payout.
Dividend equivalents are payable in respect of the shares which vest.
Changes The Committee has the discretion to adjust the vesting outcome if the pure Grant every three years with enhanced opportunity level which replaces application of a formula is not felt to produce an appropriate result in light of annual grant of 200% of salary.
Any adjustment made using this Increase to five year performance period from three years.
discretion will be explained in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
Adoption of ROCE in place of the previous Kingfisher Economic Profit KEP Malus and clawback applies under circumstances as set out in the notes to returns measure.
The maximum performance Change of control provisions apply as set out in the notes to the policy table.
target corresponds to performance significantly greater than was Maximum opportunity required for maximum vesting under the previous LTIP.
The on-target award granted once every three years is 220% of Reduction of threshold payment to zero.
salary for CEO and 200% for CFO and any other executive directors.
Creates a strong, simple and clear incentive to deliver the strategy over A maximum multiplier of four times target can vest for the five year period.
For threshold performance a multiplier of zero is applied.
Only one award will be made to each executive director during this policy period.
58 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 58 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Chairman and Non-executive director fees Element and purpose Maximum opportunity To attract and retain a Chairman and non-executive directors of the Aggregate annual fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors highest calibre.
are limited by the Companys Articles of Association, which may be varied by special resolution of the shareholders.
The current limit contained within Operation the Articles of Association is 1.75 million as approved at the 2014 AGM.
The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Contributions towards the cost of running the Chairmans office will not Committee, while the fees of the non-executive directors are determined exceed 60,000 per annum and are included within the aggregate by the Board with affected persons absenting themselves from the fees set out above.
Assessment of performance The Committee reviews the Chairmans fees annually.
The Chairmans fees are determined with reference to time commitment Changes and relevant benchmark market data.
Contributions are made towards the cost of running the Chairmans office.
The Board determines non-executive directors fees under a policy which seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board.
A base fee is paid to all non-executive directors and additional fees are also paid to the Senior Independent Director and the Chair of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Chairman and membership fees may be introduced for current and new committees.
Appropriate benefits may be provided from time to time as required.
The Board may annually review fees paid to non-executive directors against those in similar companies and takes into account the time commitment expected of them.
Fees are paid monthly wholly in cash.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys performance-related pay programmes and do not receive pension benefits.
All-employee share plans Element and purpose Maximum opportunity Executive directors may participate in all-employee share plans on similar The maximum monthly limit for the Sharesave plan is currently terms as other employees.
Operation The maximum monthly amount an individual may invest in partnership shares under the SIP is currently 150 per month.
In particular UK-based executive directors may participate in a tax approved all-employee scheme Sharesave under which they make monthly savings The SIP also allows the award of free and matching shares up to the over a period of three or five years, that may be used to buy Kingfisher limits set by the Government.
shares at a discounted price when the scheme matures.
They may also The Company may increase the amounts that can be saved or invested choose to withdraw their savings at the end of the savings period or under the Sharesave and SIP plans in line with any increases authorised at any time during the savings contract.
by the UK Government for approved plans.
UK-based executive directors may also participate in the Share Incentive Assessment of performance Plan SIP.
Designed to promote employee share ownership, the SIP None.
enables participants to make monthly investments in Kingfisher shares.
com 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration Area Policy and operation Overall When hiring a new executive director, or making internal promotions to the Board, the Committee will apply the same policy as for existing executive directors, as detailed in the Remuneration Policy.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the next Annual Report on Remuneration.
For internal promotions, any commitments made prior to appointment may continue to be honoured as the executive is transitioned to the new remuneration arrangements.
Where an individual is promoted after the Transformation Incentive grant in the policy period, an award may be made to bring the executive onto the in-flight cycle at an opportunity level reflecting their new role, subject to the limits set out in the Policy.
Awards may be pro-rated to reflect the remaining portion of the vesting period.
Any award will take into consideration awards granted prior to promotion.
The policy below is consistent with the principles of the previous recruitment policy which have been adapted in line with the new remuneration structure.
Base salary Base salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current remuneration.
Benefits Benefits provision would be in line with normal policy.
Where appropriate the executive may also receive relocation benefits or other benefits reflective of normal market practice in the territory in which the executive director is employed.
Pension Pension provision would be in line with normal policy.
Incentive awards Incentive awards would be made under the Annual Bonus, Alignment Shares and Transformation Incentive in line with the normal policy.
Where an individual joins after the Transformation Incentive grant in the policy period, an award may be made to bring the executive onto the in-flight cycle subject to the limits set out in the policy.
Awards may be pro-rated for the portion of vesting period served.
Buy-out awards In addition to normal incentive awards, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their current employer.
If a buy-out award is required, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing, and value of awards forgone in any replacement awards.
Awards may be made in cash, shares, Alignment Shares, Transformation Incentive or any other method as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Where possible, share awards will be replaced with share awards.
Where performance conditions applied to the forfeited awards, performance conditions will be applied to the replacement award or the award size will be discounted accordingly.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buy-out the Committee would also take into account the value of the other elements of the new remuneration package.
The Committee would aim to minimise the cost to the Company, however, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal maximum.
Any awards would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.
Shareholding requirements To ensure the alignment of the interests of executives and shareholders over the long-term, executive directors are required to build a significant shareholding in the Company.
The shareholding requirement is 350% of salary for the CEO and 250% for any other executive director.
All shares beneficially owned and nil-cost awards which have vested but that the executive has yet to exercise are considered to count towards the shareholding on a notional post-tax basis.
Deferred bonus shares, awarded under the previous Remuneration Policy, are not included in the assessment of the shareholding requirement until the transfer of beneficial ownership to the executive at the end of the three year deferral period.
Until the shareholding requirement is met, executive directors are required to retain 100% of vested post-tax Alignment Shares, retain 50% of vested post-tax Transformation Incentive shares, and retain 50% of post-tax shares that vest from awards granted under the previous Remuneration Policy.
It is expected that executives would retain 100% of post-tax shares from the Transformation Incentive until the requirement is met.
Upon leaving the Company, the shareholding requirements will continue to apply for two years.
This will be 100% of the shareholding requirement for the first year and will be 50% of the shareholding requirement for the second year after departure.
Notes to the future policy table Malus and clawback Malus and clawback may operate in respect of the Annual Bonus, Alignment Shares and Transformation Incentive.
These provisions enable the Company to reduce including, if appropriate, to nil the payout and vesting levels or to recover the relevant value following the cash bonus payout or vesting of shares.
Clawback will apply to the cash bonus for a period of three years following payment and for a period of two years following vesting under the Alignment Shares and Transformation Incentive.
These provisions could take effect in the event of financial misstatement, serious reputational damage, or material misconduct in individual cases.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company, share awards will normally vest subject to performance conditions.
Alignment Shares and Transformation Incentive awards will normally be reduced on a time pro-rated basis in line with the treatment for good leavers which is set out in the Service contracts and the policy on payment for loss of office section of this Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee may alternatively consider that such a reduction is inappropriate, e. g. if it is agreed with an acquirer to rollover outstanding awards.
Other awards may be reduced at the Committees discretion.
60 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 60 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Discretions The Committee retains certain discretions in relation to the Annual Bonus Plan which are set out in full in the plan rules, which include but are not limited to: the determination of and timing of any bonus payment: the impact of a change of control or restructuring: and any adjustments required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, corporate restructuring event, special dividend or rights issue.
Discretions set out as part of this Remuneration Policy provide the Committee with discretion in certain matters regarding the administration and operation of the Alignment Shares and Transformation Incentive as set out in the corresponding plan rules approved by shareholders, including, but not limited to the following: any adjustments to performance conditions or awards required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, corporate restructuring event, special dividend or rights issue : and minor administrative matters to improve the efficiency of the operation of the plans or to comply with local tax law or regulation.
In relation to the Annual Bonus Plan, Alignment Shares, and Transformation Incentive, and in line with the plan rules, the Committee retains the ability to amend the performance conditions and or measures in respect of any award or payment if one or more event s occur which would lead the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that such an amendment would not be materially less difficult to satisfy than the unaltered performance condition would have been but for the event in question.
Should the Committee use any of the discretions set out above, these would, where relevant, be disclosed in the next Annual Report on Remuneration.
The views of major shareholders may also be sought.
Discretion in relation to the Companys All-Employee Share Plans Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan would be exercised within the parameters of the HMRC approved plan status and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Legacy Awards In-flight awards made before the adoption of this Policy will continue in line with the approved policy under which they were granted.
Further details of these awards can be found within the Remuneration Policy approved at the 12 June 2014 AGM and included within the 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration structure for members of the Group Executive follows the same approach as to the executive directors but with a lower maximum opportunity as appropriate.
The Transformation Incentive is granted only to the executive directors and members of the Group Executive.
For the next tier of management below the Group Executive, the remuneration structure consists of base salary, benefits, pension, bonus, and Alignment Shares.
Performance measures are tailored to reflect the relevant position of the individual and the relevant part of the business in which they operate.
All other employees are entitled to base salary and benefits and may also receive bonus, pension, profit share and share awards which vary according to local jurisdiction and market practice.
The maximum provision and incentive opportunity available are determined by the seniority and responsibility of the role.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Chief People Officer is invited to present to the Committee on the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally and on any other changes to the Companys Remuneration Policy.
The Chief People Officer consults with the Committee on the KPIs for the executive directors bonuses and the extent to which these should be cascaded to other employees.
The Committee has oversight of all long-term incentive awards across the Company.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for all individuals in Kingfishers leadership team which includes Operating Company CEOs and Group function directors.
The Committee approves the policy on share award levels for all employees and uses this information to ensure that there is consistency of approach across Kingfisher.
The Company did not consult with employees when drafting the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee has consulted extensively with the Companys largest shareholders and their representative bodies on the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
We were pleased that the vast majority of our shareholders were very supportive of our remuneration principles and the proposed design.
We were grateful for the constructive feedback provided throughout the process which was taken on board in our final proposals.
The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue with the Companys shareholder base.
com 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy The tables and charts below provide estimates of the potential total future remuneration for each executive director in respect of the remuneration opportunity granted to them in 2016 17.
Potential outcomes for each executive director, based on three different performance scenarios, are shown.
These scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends received.
Vronique Laury Karen Witts 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 1% 4,465 1% 3,239 Maximum Maximum 18% 15% 15% 49% 19% 15% 15% 47% 2% 3% 1% 2% Target Target 31% 16% 26% 22% 2,559 31% 16% 25% 20% 1,908 4% 6% 11% 14% Below Below 86% 943 82% 739 threshold threshold 3% 4% Value of package 000 Value of package 000 Base Salary Benets Pension Annual Bonus Alignment Shares Transformation Incentive Notes Base salary reflects the average salary over the policy period based on an assumption that the maximum salary increases are awarded over the period, i. e. 8% p. a. for the CEO and 5% p. a. for the CFO.
Benefits: Estimate based upon benefits received during 2015 16 as recorded in the single figure table of remuneration excluding the relocation support for Vronique Laury which is now complete.
Pension: Shown as a percentage of salary in line with policy.
Transformation Incentive: One Transformation Award will be granted in the first three years.
The figures above have been annualised by dividing the Transformation Incentive by three in recognition that there will be no award in years two and three.
Fixed remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and pension.
Short-term variable compensation comprises the annual bonus.
Long-term variable compensation comprises both the Alignment Shares and the Transformation Incentive.
Performance scenarios Below threshold On-target Maximum Only the fixed pay elements Fixed pay elements plus target Annual Bonus Fixed pay elements plus maximum Annual base salary, benefits and pension are received, Alignment Shares and target Bonus are received, Alignment Shares, and of the package are received.
Minimum performance targets for the Annual Alignment Shares are equivalent to 80% Alignment Shares are equivalent to 80% Bonus and Transformation Incentive are not of base salary.
achieved, therefore no payments will be Annual Bonus on-target performance is Annual Bonus maximum performance made and awards will lapse.
achieved, resulting in a bonus of 50% achieved resulting in a bonus of 80% of salary.
The underpin requirement for the unvested of salary.
Annualised Transformation Incentive Alignment Shares is not met and the pre-grant Annualised Transformation Incentive maximum performance achieved resulting requirement is not achieved.
on-target performance achieved resulting in a 4x multiplier.
The annualised value is in a 1x multiplier.
The annualised value is 293% of salary for the CEO and 267% of 73% of salary for the CEO and 67% of salary for the CFO.
62 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 62 King sher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by either the director or the Company.
Non-compete During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Executive directors Resignation Contractual No payments on departure will be made on termination, even if by mutual agreement the notice period is cut short.
Termination payment Departure not in the case of resignation For the period of notice served, the executive director may continue to receive their monthly base salary, benefits and pension.
During this time, at the discretion of the Company, they may continue their duties or be assigned garden leave.
For the period of notice not served, the executive director may receive a payment in lieu of notice.
This would be delivered by continuing to pay their monthly base salary over this period and would be subject to mitigation.
No other payments should be due on departure.
Settlement agreement The Committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
Treatment of No payments under any incentive plans will be made in the event of the Committee determining the departing incentives for individual to be defined as a bad leaver.
bad leavers Leaver provisions Bonus payments may be receivable at the normal date, pro-rated for time, and taking into account for Annual Bonus performance achieved.
for good leavers The Committee retains the ultimate discretion to make bonus payments and determine the basis upon which they are made and their value taking into account the individual circumstances of the departure.
Alignment Shares The default position is that awards will lapse upon cessation of employment.
for good leavers If the Committee is of the view that performance has been good, discretion may be applied for the shares to vest.
The shares would continue to be subject to the normal underpin condition and would be released according to the normal timeframe but not subject to the holding period provided that the shareholding requirement is met.
Awards made in the 12 months prior to departure may be pro-rated based on the proportion of the 12 months from grant that has been served.
Where the participant ceases to be employed as a result of death, then the award will vest shortly after the Company is notified, pro-rated for time, and take into account the Committees assessment of performance achieved to that date.
The Committee may decide, acting fairly and reasonably, that any adjustment set out above to reduce the vesting of the award would be inappropriate.
Transformation Awards will vest on the normal date, pro-rated for time, and will take into account performance achieved.
Incentive for good The Committee retains discretion to further reduce the awards granted to reflect any personal performance issues.
leavers Where the participant ceases to be employed as a result of death, then the award will vest shortly after the Company is notified, pro-rated for time, and taking into account the Committees assessment of performance achieved to that date.
Shareholding Upon leaving the Company, the shareholding requirement will continue to apply for two years.
requirements The shareholding requirement will be 100% of the shareholding requirement for the first year and 50% for the second year after departure.
Shareholding requirements will no longer apply in the case of death.
At their discretion, the Committee may apply the same treatment in cases of ill-health.
Chairman and nonNon-executive directors are appointed under letters of engagement.
Executive directors Appointments have historically been for an initial period of three years and invitations to act for subsequent three Contractual year terms are subject to a review of performance, and take into account the need to progressively refresh the Board.
Termination payment The appointment may be terminated by either party giving the other not less than three months prior written notice, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has no obligation to pay compensation when the appointment terminates.
com 63 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The Annual Report on Remuneration outlines how the Committee implemented the previous Directors Remuneration Policy for the financial year ended 31 January 2016.
This report, together with the Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 June 2016.
Shareholder approval is on an advisory basis only.
These reports have been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and also include the items required to be disclosed under 9.8.
8R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Where information disclosed has been subject to audit by the Groups auditor, Deloitte LLP, this is highlighted.
Single total figure of Remuneration for the executive directors audited information The table below sets out the remuneration of each of the executive directors and former executive directors for the financial year ended 31 January 2016 and the comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 January 2015.
The majority of the CEO salary for the 2014 15 financial year was made up of the salary paid to Sir Ian Cheshire who had a higher salary than his successor, Vronique Laury.
The like-for-like comparison is therefore a 15% reduction.
2 Kevin OByrne left the Company on 15 May 2015 and his remuneration for 2015 16 covers the period from the start of the financial year to his date of leaving.
Notes to the single total figure of Remuneration for the executive directors audited information 1.
Base Salary Executive directors salaries were increased at the start of the 2015 16 financial year with effect from 1 February 2015.
No other reviews took place during the year.
As at 1 February 2015 As at 1 February 2014 000 000 % increase Executive directors 1 Vronique Laury 700.0 700.0 n a 2 Karen Witts 550.0 525.0 5% Former executive directors Kevin OByrne 639.5 639.5 0% 1 Base salary as at 8 December 2014 for Vronique Laury.
2 The increase for Karen Witts was disclosed in last years report within the Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
Taxable Benefits The benefits provided to executive directors and former executive directors for both 2015 16 and 2014 15 included car benefit or cash allowance, private medical insurance, death-in-service cover, financial advice and, where applicable, relocation support.
Karen Witts and Kevin OByrne opted for the cash allowance.
2 Relocation support reflects the cost of relocation support incurred in 2015 16 for Vronique Laury.
This completes the relocation support.
When combined with the 10,500 incurred in 2014 15, the overall level of support was 214,300, compared to the budget provided of 350,000.
Note that these figures are inclusive of the tax payable on the expenses reimbursed.
64 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 64 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance 3.
Annual Bonus The executive directors targets for the 2015 16 bonus were based on both financial targets and individual objectives as set out in the tables below, with annual bonus payments determined by reference to performance over the financial year ended 31 January 2016.
For the financial targets, achievement is calculated on a straight-line basis between start to earn and target and between target and maximum.
The table below shows the target ranges set, the business outturn and the bonus outcomes achieved as a percentage of maximum.
Targets Minimum Target Financial measures 10% of maximum 50% of maximum Maximum Achieved Group Profit Before Tax growth 1.0% 5.0% 8.1% 8.4% Group Like-for-Like sales growth 1.7% 2.7% 3.7% 2.3% Group Working Capital cash flow 22.6m 7.0m 61.0m 5.7m Outcomes Executive directors Vronique Laury Karen Witts Kevin OByrne % of performance target achieved Group Profit Before Tax growth 30 30 30 30 n a Group Like-for-Like sales growth 10.5 30 10.5 30 n a Group Working Capital cash flow 9.6 20 9.6 20 n a Personal 19 20 19 20 10 20 Total as a proportion of maximum opportunity 69.1 100 69.1 100 10 100 Award level 000 967.4 760.1 37.6 Notes Group profit before tax is before exceptional items.
Group working capital cash flow excludes B&Q China, exceptional and certain non-trading items.
Results are shown on a constant currency basis.
As part of his leaving terms, Kevin OByrne was entitled to a pro-rata bonus under the personal element of the bonus only.
He was not entitled to a bonus under the financial measures.
The annual bonus will be paid in April 2016 for the financial year 2015 16.
For the current executive directors, 50% of the annual bonus awarded will be deferred for a period of three years in Kingfisher shares, and be due to vest in 2019.
The only qualifying condition for the deferred bonus awards to vest is for the executive director to remain in the employment of the Company and not to be serving notice at the vesting date.
Kevin OByrne will receive his bonus wholly in cash.
Personal objectives Vronique Laurys outcome against personal objectives is due to the successful development and mobilisation of the new Kingfisher strategy, restructuring of the senior management team to drive the new strategy forward, her strong leadership of the wider team, successful delivery of the first sharp decisions, and delivery of underlying financial business performance during a period of strategic change.
Karen Witts outcome against personal objectives is due to the successful unification of the goods not for resale GNFR process, strengthening of the Finance Team, contribution and support to the Group Executive, and the successful development of the five year plan, leading to the Capital Markets Day in January.
The Boards view was that Vronique and Karen had performed strongly against all of their objectives in a transformational year for Kingfisher, warranting an award of 19 20 in both cases on this element.
Kevin OByrnes outcome against personal objectives is due to achievement against specific goals relating to the well-structured hand over to the B&Q Board and communication to store staff of the change in management, maintenance of profitability within B&Q, growth in the Kitchen business, and successful execution of the Easier initiative.
The Boards view was that Kevin had met expectations in these objectives relating to his transition, warranting an award of 10 20 on this element.
com 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued 4.
LTIP The value of LTIPs shown in the single figure table shows the level of award resulting from targets set and measured over the relevant reporting period financial year ended 31 January 2016.
There were no LTIPs vesting in respect of the performance period due to Kingfisher previously moving from a one-off LTIP award to an annual LTIP grant.
The 2011 PSP award level was determined with reference to performance ending in 2013 14 and was therefore shown in full in the 2013 14 single figure table in line with the regulations, even though the vesting took place across two separate vesting dates on 17 June 2014 and 17 June 2015.
For reference, the table below shows the final value of the shares relating to the second tranche at the point of vesting on 17 June 2015.
Total number of Dividend Number of shares shares vesting in the subsequently added vesting on 17 June Value of shares 1 2 3 second tranche up to the vesting date Lapsed shares 2015 vesting Executive directors Vronique Laury 24,427 474 24,901 90,515 Karen Witts 82,971 1,611 84,582 307,456 Former executive directors Kevin OByrne 191,863 3,726 4,499 191,090 694,612 1 As disclosed in last years report.
2 As part of the time pro-rata adjustment for Kevin OByrne on leaving.
3 Shares valued at 363.50p, this being the closing price of the Companys shares on the vesting date.
Pensions audited information Executive directors based in the UK are eligible to join the UK defined contribution pension plan the DC Scheme.
No executive director has a prospective right to a defined benefit pension.
The Company operates a policy to limit the combined employer and member pension contributions during a tax year to the annual allowance, with the excess employer contribution being directed into a taxable monthly cash allowance.
In addition, directors may choose to opt out of the scheme completely, if for example, they have reached the lifetime allowance.
A summary of the arrangements for the executive directors is set out below.
Notional employer contribution rate into defined contribution Cash allowance in lieu Equivalent cash pension scheme to which the Member of the of employer contributions allowance rate as individual is eligible UK DC Scheme into DC Scheme % of salary Executive directors Vronique Laury 14% No Yes, in full 12.5% Karen Witts 20% Yes Yes, in excess of 17.5% the annual allowance Former executive directors Kevin OByrne 20% No Yes, in full 19.8% Notes Kevin OByrne opted out of the UK DC Scheme with Fixed Protection 2012.
The cash allowance rate shown reflects legacy arrangements for Kevin OByrne.
Karen Witts own member contributions took up the Annual Allowance headroom meaning that the full employer contribution was paid as a cash alternative.
Cash allowances are provided on a cost neutral basis for the Company.
This means that a discount is applied to those directors joining after the introduction of pension salary sacrifice SMART pensions in 2012.
This takes into account the fact that employers national insurance is payable on the cash alternative whereas it is not payable on employer pension contribution into the defined contribution scheme.
Accordingly, the cash alternative for Vronique Laury is 12.5% of salary and for Karen Witts it is 17.5% of salary.
Pension benefits paid during the year Employer contributions into Total Total pension DC Scheme Cash alternative 2015 16 benefit as a % 000 000 000 of base salary Executive directors Vronique Laury n a 87.5 87.5 12.5% 1 Karen Witts 0.0 96.3 96.3 17.5% Former executive directors Kevin OByrne n a 37.1 37.1 19.8% 1 Salary Sacrifice member contributions into the Kingfisher Defined Contribution pension scheme were made by Karen Witts to the value of 40,025.
66 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 66 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Payments for loss of office audited information The table below sets out the treatment in relation to executive directors who left the business during the year, which was applied in line with the Remuneration Policy.
For 2015 16 this applies to Kevin OByrne only.
Mr OByrne received a total payment for loss of office of 815,995 made up of the elements explained in the payment in lieu of notice and other sections below.
The breakdown below also includes the treatment of his unvested incentive schemes.
Extract from Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting Kevin OByrne Stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 15 May 2015.
Base salary, benefits and pension Notice was served on 31 March 2015.
Mr OByrne continued to receive his base salary, benefits and pension contributions as If notice is served by either party, the executive director may continue normal for the period up to 15 May 2015.
These are disclosed to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their in the single figure table.
Payment in lieu of notice Mr OByrne received a monthly payment of 76,745 for 10 months, this being the balance of his 12 month notice period not worked.
The For any period of notice not served: Kevin OByrne would receive total value of payments under the liquidated damages was 803,995. phased payments of 12% of base salary for a maximum of 12 months, subject to mitigation.
Annual Bonus Mr OByrne was eligible to participate in the 2015 16 annual bonus scheme to recognise his personal contribution during the 3 months If notice is served by either party, the executive director may receive of the financial year that he has worked.
The award level was based bonus payments in cash on a pro-rated basis from the start of the on the personal element only, which is 20% of the normal bonus financial year up to the date of termination of employment, based on opportunity, with no award being due under the remaining financial the determination of the results at the year-end against targets set.
The overall award level was 37,560.
Deferred bonus These vested in full.
The shares awarded under the former KISS scheme vested on the leaving date and were valued on that date at Deferred bonus awards granted under the KISS lapse if the executive 288,276 based on 81,457 shares under the 2013 and 2014 awards director resigns or is dismissed for cause.
In all other circumstances, at 353.90p.
The shares awarded under the KISP rules will vest on the the award will vest in full on the date of cessation of employment.
normal vesting date of 23 April 2018.
Based on the share price on Deferred bonus awards granted under the KISP lapse if the executive 29 January 2016 these are valued at 216,690 66,449 shares under director resigns or is dismissed for cause.
In all other circumstances, the 2015 award at 326.10p.
These awards have previously been where the Committee determine that good leaver treatment applies, disclosed in the single figure table in the relevant year.
the award will vest in full on the normal vesting date.
LTIP The second tranche of the award granted under the Performance Share Plan in 2011 vested on the normal vesting date of 15 June 2015 Awards granted under the PSP and LTIP lapse if the executive and was pro-rated 97.7% to take into account the length of time director resigns or is dismissed for cause.
In all other circumstances, Mr OByrne was employed over the vesting period.
The value of the where the Committee determine that good leaver treatment applies, shares on the vesting date was 694,612 based on 191,090 shares at the award will vest on a time pro-rated basis and subject to 360.50p.
This award has previously been disclosed in the single figure performance conditions.
table in the relevant year.
The 2014 LTIP lapsed in full on his leaving date and he was not invited to participate in the 2015 LTIP award.
Other A contribution of 12,000 towards legal fees was made.
Reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with settlement agreements www.
com 67 Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments to past directors There were no payments to past directors.
Outside appointments for executive directors Subject to the rules governing conflicts of interest, the Company is supportive of its executive directors holding external non-executive positions, in recognition that such roles can broaden their experience and knowledge, which can be of benefit to Kingfisher.
Subject to the Committees agreement, any fees may be retained by the individual.
Karen Witts is a non-executive director of Imperial Brands plc, and is paid 75,000 per annum for fulfilling this role.
Kevin OByrne was a non-executive director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Land Securities Group plc, while he was an executive director of Kingfisher.
He was paid 67,500, 10,000 and 17,500 per annum respectively for fulfilling these roles and he retained these fees.
Performance graph The graph below shows Kingfishers total shareholder return for the seven years to 31 January 2016, which assumes that 100 was invested in Kingfisher on 1 February 2009.
The Company chose the FTSE100 Index as an appropriate comparator for this graph, as Kingfisher has been a constituent of that index throughout the period.
350 300 250 200 150 100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Kingsher FTSE 100 Chief Executive Officers remuneration over the last seven years The table below sets out the total remuneration of the holder of the office of Chief Executive Officer for the period from 1 February 2009 to 31 January 2016.
2 The original LTIP grant level shows the award level initially given three years prior to the date the vesting percentage was determined.
3 The value of the LTIP for 2013 14 has been restated using the share price at the date of vesting.
In last years report the second tranche was valued using the average share price for the last three months of the 2014 15 financial year.
It has now been re-valued based on the share price on the actual vesting date of 17 June 2015 now that this share price is known.
4 Sir Ian Cheshire stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 8 December 2014 and Vronique Laury took over the position on this date.
Sir Ian Cheshires remuneration in the table is from the start of the financial year up until 8 December 2014, and Vronique Laurys is from 8 December 2014 to the end of the financial year.
68 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 68 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Value Governance Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows how the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and bonus between 2014 15 and 2015 16 compared with the average percentage change of each of those components for all full-time equivalent employees based in the UK.
The UK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the Chief Executive Officer is based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across Kingfisher vary widely depending on local market conditions.
The reduction in salary of 15% reflects the change in Chief Executive Officer on 8 December 2014.
The increase in benefits for the Chief Executive Officer is distorted by the inclusion of the one-off relocation costs for Vronique Laury.
Removing the relocation costs leads to a reduction in benefits of 33%.
The bonus has increased substantially for the Chief Executive Officer due to the achievement of the financial elements of the bonus in 2015 16.
The prior year comparative only included an award under the personal element which was only 20% of the overall bonus opportunity.
Bonus schemes for all UK employees are set at local level and have a lower level of volatility from one year to the next.
Chief Executive Officer All UK Employees To 31 January 2016 Percentage change 000 2015 16 vs 2014 15 Base Salary 700.0 15% 6.0% Taxable Benefits 228.3 387% 4.4% Annual Bonus 967.4 377% 0.6% Total 1,895.5 76% 5.4% Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the relative importance of spend on employee remuneration when compared with distributions to shareholders.
2015 16 2014 15 Percentage change m 1 Overall expenditure on pay 1,499 1,561 4% 2 Ordinary dividend paid in the year 232 234 0.9% Special dividend paid in the year 100 Total dividends paid in the year 232 334 30% 1 The decline year-on-year is caused by foreign exchange rate movements.
On a constant currency basis, the percentage change is a 1.4% increase.
2 Although the overall dividend declined year on year, the ordinary dividend per share increased by 1%.
Executive directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Executive directors are required to build a significant shareholding in the Company within five years from the date of their first award under a qualifying plan.
Unvested awards are not included when assessing holding requirements.
Vested awards are included when assessing holdings, but are adjusted to take into account the tax liability arising on exercise.
The table below sets out the beneficial interests of the executive directors in the ordinary shares of the Company and a summary of the outstanding share awards as at 31 January 2016.
Calculations are based on a share price of 326.1p being the closing price of a Kingfisher share on 29 January 2016.
Shares held Awards over nil cost options Unvested and subject to Shareholding Date by which Unvested and performance Shareholding 31 January shareholding Vested subject to conditions requirement 2016 requirement but not continued and continued % of base % of base to be 1 2 3 4 No of shares held outright exercised employment employment salary salary achieved Name Executive directors 31 Jan 2016 31 Jan 2015 5 Vronique Laury 192,058 150,577 25,124 30,777 522,417 300% 96% December 2019 5 6 Karen Witts 110,736 110,202 85,342 77,643 604,305 200% 92% October 2017 Former executive directors 7 Kevin OByrne 410,698 414,429 355,004 200% 220% n a 1 Vested but not exercised shares relate to shares which vested under the second tranche of the 2011 PSP in June 2015.
2 Nil-cost options and awards which have vested but have yet to be exercised are considered to count towards the shareholding requirement, other than any such shares that correspond to the estimated income tax and national insurance contributions that would arise on their exercise estimated at 47% of the award.
3 Includes options granted to Karen Witts under an HMRC-approved ShareSave plan 8,868 shares and CSOP plan 11,337 shares which are not in the form of nil-cost options.
4 Relates to the 2014 LTIP granted on 15 September 2014 and the 2015 LTIP granted on 5 May 2015.
5 As potential beneficiaries of the Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, Vronique Laury and Karen Witts are deemed to have an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by the Trust.
The Trust held 6,926,918 ordinary shares at 31 January 2016.
6 Between 1 February 2016 and the date of this report, Karen Witts acquired 87 partnership shares under the Kingfisher Share Investment Plan SIP.
7 Kevin OByrne left the Company on 15 May 2015 and his shareholding is shown as of this date.
com 69 Directors Remuneration Report continued Share awards made during the financial year audited information Options and awards over shares were made during the year ended 31 January 2016 under the Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP in respect of the deferred share element of the 2014 15 annual bonus and for the 2015 LTIP Award.
Deferred element of the 2014 15 annual bonus The only qualifying condition for the deferred bonus awards to vest is for the executive director to remain in the employment of the Company and not to be serving notice at the vesting date.
Face value of award Name Date of grant Number of shares Vesting date Final exercise date Executive directors Vronique Laury 23 April 2015 10,199 35,741 23 April 2018 22 April 2022 Karen Witts 23 April 2015 28,464 99,750 23 April 2018 22 April 2022 Notes The deferred bonus awards were made under the KISP and were calculated by reference to the share price for the three dealing days prior to the grant of 350.43p per share.
The awards are structured as nil-cost options.
UK awards have an exercise period of four years less one day.
The award for Vronique Laury relates to the full 2014 15 financial year meaning that part related to the period prior to her appointment as Chief Executive Officer and part post her appointment.
The single figure table last year only included the element relating to the period post her appointment.
2015 LTIP Award The vesting of LTIP awards is conditional on continued employment and the achievement of performance conditions.
Face value of award 1 2 3 Name Date of grant Number of shares Vesting date Final exercise date Executive directors Vronique Laury 05 May 2015 398,213 1,400,000 05 May 2018 04 May 2022 Karen Witts 05 May 2015 312,882 1,100,000 05 May 2018 04 May 2022 1 The award value is based on 200% of base salary 2 The awards were made under the KISP and were calculated by reference to the share price for the three dealing days prior to the grant of 351.57p per shares.
3 The awards are structured as nil-cost options and UK awards and have an exercise period of four years less one day.
The performance measures attached to the 2015 LTIP were EPS and KEP with equal weighting of 50% each.
A definition of KEP is included in the glossary.
The targets for the EPS element were as follows: Threshold Maximum Performance Measure 25% vesting 100% vesting Earnings per share compound annual growth up to the end of the 2017 18 financial year 4% 11.5% The EPS growth targets were set to be consistent with market practice in the FTSE 100 and in particular the retail sector.
The threshold level of performance provides for real growth, which is considered suitably challenging in what remains an uncertain economic environment, but sets an achievable level of performance to ensure participants place value on the plan and are motivated by it.
The maximum performance level ensures that full vesting is only achieved for outstanding double-digit performance over a three-year period, which is well above typical industry growth rates.
KEP targets are calibrated to be consistent with the EPS growth targets, recognising that in weaker performance scenarios offsetting capital efficiencies should be identified, whereas stronger performance scenarios may allow increased capital investment.
The Board considers the KEP targets to be commercially confidential because of the additional information they contain regarding potential capital investment plans, and so these targets will be disclosed in full at the point of vesting of the award.
70 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 70 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Scheme interests exercised during the financial year audited information Gain on Total exercise Market value of exercise of Number of Exercise price price Date of shares at date options Name shares per share p 000 exercise of exercise p 000 Executive directors Vronique Laury Performance Share Plan 24,427 Nil Nil 05 05 2015 355.25 86.8 2011 Award Fr Kingfisher Incentive Share 27,304 Nil Nil05 05 2015 355.25 97.0 Scheme KISS 2012 Award Former executive directors Kevin OByrne 191,090 Nil Nil 18 06 2015 362.72 693.1 Performance Share Plan 2011 Award Kingfisher Incentive Share 138,513 Nil Nil28 04 2015 349.31 483.8 Scheme 2012 Award Kingfisher Incentive Share 43,162 Nil Nil28 05 2015 374.00 161.4 Scheme 2013 Award Kingfisher Incentive Share 38,295 Nil Nil28 05 2015 374.00 143.2 Scheme 2014 Award Karen Witts did not exercise any shares or nil cost options during the year.
Dilution limits Awards granted under the Companys share plans are satisfied by newly issued shares.
The terms of the Companys share plans set limits on the number of newly issued shares that may be issued to satisfy awards.
In accordance with guidance from the Investment Association, these limits restrict overall dilution under all plans to under 10% of the Companys issued share capital over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on executive plans.
The Committee regularly monitors this position to ensure these limits are adhered to.
Any awards which are satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from these calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 January 2016.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for the non-executive directors audited information Fees payable to non-executive directors The table below sets out the remuneration of each non-executive director during the financial year ended 31 January 2016 and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 January 2015.
During the year, no payments were made to non-executive directors for expenses other than those incurred in the ordinary course of their appointments.
Fees Fees Committee 2015 16 2014 15 1 Additional Responsibilities Membership 000 000 2 3 Daniel Bernard Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee R, N 453.6 453.6 Andrew Bonfield Chairman of the Audit Committee A, R, N 82.4 82.4 Pascal Cagni N 62.4 62.4 Clare Chapman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee R, N 82.4 77.4 Anders Dahlvig A, N 62.4 62.4 4 Mark Seligman Senior Independent Director A, R, N 82.4 79.9 Former non-executive directors 5 Janis Kong A, R, N 62.4 62.4 Total 888.0 880.5 1 Indicates which Directors served on each Committee during the year see key below 2 Daniel Bernard is paid his fees through a service company, Provestis, which also includes a contribution towards the cost of running the Chairmans office of 49,500.
3 From 1 February 2015, the Chairmans fees and contribution to office costs were paid in sterling instead of euros as had been the case historically.
The average exchange rate over 2014 15 was used for the conversion 1.2487.
4 Mark Seligman became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 22 January 2016.
5 Janis Kong stepped down from the Board and the Boards Committees on 1 February 2016.
Committee Membership Key: Audit Committee A: Remuneration Committee R: Nomination Committee N www.
com 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued Notes to the single total figure of remuneration for the non-executive directors audited information Fees Fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2015 16 and 2014 15 are shown below.
No benefits are provided with the exception of a store discount card of up to 20%.
Fees 000 As at 1 February 2015 As at 1 February 2014 % increase Chairman 453.6 453.6 0% Non-executive director fee 62.4 62.4 0% 1 Senior Independent Director 20.0 17.4 15% Chairman of Audit Committee 20.0 20.0 0% 1 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 20.0 15.0 33% 1 An increase in fees was given by exception to the Senior Independent Director and the Remuneration Committee Chairman in reflection of changes in the market rates.
This was disclosed in the 2014 15 Implementation Report.
All other fees remained unchanged.
Non-executive directors shareholdings The table below sets out the current shareholdings of the non-executive directors including beneficial interests as at 31 January 2016.
The Company does not operate a share ownership policy for the non-executive directors, but encourages non-executive directors to acquire shares on their own account.
Number of shares Number of shares held outright as at held outright as at 1 31 January 2016 31 January 2015 Daniel Bernard 124,646 124,646 Andrew Bonfield 10,000 10,000 Pascal Cagni 30,570 30,570 Clare Chapman 6,990 6,990 Anders Dahlvig 75,000 75,000 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard 0 0 Janis Kong 24,000 24,000 Mark Seligman 15,000 15,000 1 There have been no changes to the beneficial interests of the non-executive directors between 1 February 2016 and 21 March 2016.
2 Rakhi Goss-Custard was appointed to the Board post-year end, on 1 February 2016.
Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 17 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for executive directors in 2016 17 Base Salary Implemented in line with policy.
Base Salary 000 As at 1 April 2016 As at 1 February 2015 % increase Vronique Laury 755.0 700.0 7.9% Karen Witts 575.0 550.0 4.5% The effective pay date for the annual pay review changed from 1 February 2016 to 1 April 2016.
This is a move towards consistency across Kingfisher.
As previously communicated in last years Report on Remuneration, the Committee intends to move the CEOs base salary toward the market median over the next three years, and this remains the case subject to continued performance in role.
Note that any increases will not exceed 8% p. a.
For the CFO, since her appointment in October 2012, it has been the Committees intention to move her salary to the market median over time.
In last years Report on Remuneration we reported that this had been achieved.
However, when reviewing the executive directors pay positioning against the market as part of the strategic review, the Committee was conscious that, whilst the CFOs salary is broadly aligned with the FTSE 25- 75, the salary and total fixed pay package is less competitive against the retail peer group, particularly in the light of the relatively low pension contribution.
Given the scale of the strategic transformation and the criticality of the CFO to its success it is intended that, subject to continued performance in role, the CFO will receive salary increases over the policy period that may exceed that of the wider employee population to bring her fixed pay to an appropriate position between the FTSE 25-75 and retail peer group.
However it is not expected that any increase to base salary will exceed 5% p. a..
The increase to her salary for 2016 17 is 4.5%.
Benefits Implemented in line with policy.
Pension Implemented in line with policy.
72 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 72 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Annual Bonus Implemented in line with policy.
The Annual Bonus will have a maximum opportunity of 80% of salary.
The Annual Bonus will be judged based on achievement of a number of strategic milestones within each of the following four pillars: Unified & Unique Offer.
Group financial performance will also be taken into consideration.
In the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the annual bonus measures and targets for 2016 17 are commercially sensitive and accordingly are not disclosed.
These will be disclosed next year.
The targets are aligned to the operational milestones set out in the Strategic Report on page 22.
Alignment Shares Implemented in line with policy.
The Remuneration Committee determined that personal performance for both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer had been strong over 2015 16 and so Alignment Share awards will be made at the level of 80% of salary in line with policy.
Alignment Shares will have two robust underpin conditions over the three year vesting period: maintenance of the dividend subject to dividend cover being above 1.75x: and maintenance of ratio of lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR below 2.5x.
If both are not met then up to 100% of the unvested award would lapse.
The Committee will determine the appropriate deduction taking into account business performance and progress against the capital return plan.
Performance against the underpin will be considered annually and any reduction will apply to the award next due to vest.
In the event that the lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR ratio is exceeded due to Board-approved acceleration of investment plans then the Remuneration Committee may apply discretion to allow vesting.
In these circumstances the Committee would consider delaying vesting in whole or part by a further year to ensure sustainability of performance.
Transformation Incentive Implemented in line with policy.
The Transformation Incentive target award level will be 220% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for the CFO.
The performance targets are calibrated such that a level of performance above the Capital Markets Day commitments is required in order to achieve the maximum 4x multiple payout.
Details of the targets for this award are set out below.
Payouts occur on a straight-line basis between each of the required EPS and ROCE performance points.
2020 21 ROCE Transformation Incentive Pay-out Multiple 50% of award 50% of award Zero 4% 12% 1x Target 6.5% 13% 2x Target 9% 14% 3x Target 12% 15% 4x Target 16% 17% The Remuneration Committee will apply a quality of earnings test prior to awards vesting and may use this to adjust the formulaic outcome.
This test would include considering the overall execution of strategy, balance sheet health, the relative performance of growth vs. returns, the level of transformational costs relative to the plan Capex and P&L costs, and the overall GDP growth level in the economy.
The performance targets have been set to reflect the commitment at the Capital Markets Day to return circa 600m of capital to shareholders over the next three years, which is expected to be via share buyback.
If the capital return of c. 600m is not delivered then the EPS performance targets will not be adjusted since the commitment made at the Capital Markets Day has not been met.
If the capital return is delivered through a different method such as a special dividend, then the EPS performance targets will be adjusted.
This removes any bias towards one form of capital return versus another.
If the capital return of c. 600m is materially exceeded then the Remuneration Committee would expect to adjust the EPS performance targets to reflect the extent to which EPS has been enhanced by the excess capital return.
EPS will be reported on the basis of adjusted earnings per share.
This is basic earnings per share for continuing operations adjusted to exclude the following: B&Q China operating results: exceptional items: financing fair value re-measurements: www.
com 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued amortisation of acquisition intangibles: and related tax items and prior year tax items including the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax.
ROCE will be reported on the basis of lease adjusted profit after tax divided by capital employed, where: Lease adjusted profit after tax retail profit less central costs, excluding exceptional items and China operating loss: add back: Property lease cost excluding B&Q China : and less tax at Effective Tax Rate ETR.
Capital Employed total net assets of the business 2 point average at year start and end : and add: capitalised property leases at 8 times annual property lease cost.
Excludes: historic goodwill and historic acquisition intangibles goodwill for new acquisitions during the Plan will be included : net debt cash: exceptional restructuring provisions: and assets liabilities investment and capitalised property leases of excluded businesses e. g. China.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for non-executive directors in 2016 17 Fees As at As at Fees 000 1 February 2016 1 February 2015 % increase 1 Chairman 480.0 453.6 5.8% Non-executive Director fee 62.4 62.4 0% Senior Independent Director fee 20.0 20.0 0% Chairman of the Audit Committee 20.0 20.0 0% Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20.0 20.0 0% 1 The Chairmans fee includes a contribution to office costs of 49,500.
A review of non-executive director fees will be completed during 2016 17.
Any changes to fee rates will be disclosed in the next Annual Report on Remuneration.
This review will exclude the Chairmans fee.
Service contracts letters of appointment Date of service contract letter of Expiry of Length of service at appointment current term 31 January 2016 Daniel Bernard 24 05 2006 30 06 2018 9 years Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 31 01 2019 5 years Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 16 11 2016 5 years Clare Chapman 2 12 2010 01 12 2016 5 years Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 31 01 2019 6 years 1 Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 02 201631 01 2019 Vronique Laury 8 12 2014 Rolling 1 year Mark Seligman 1 01 2012 01 12 2017 4 years Karen Witts 1 10 2012 Rolling 3 years Former Directors 2 Janis Kong 8 12 2006 06 12 2015 9 years 3 Kevin OByrne 1 10 2008 6 years 1 Rakhi Goss-Custard joined the Board after the year end, on 1 February 2016, and so did not serve as a Director during the 2015 16 financial year.
2 Janis Kong stepped down as a non-executive director with effect from 1 February 2016.
3 Kevin OBrynes length of service is as at his leaving date, 15 May 2015.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee has delegated authority from the Board over the Companys remuneration framework and policy.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis and were last updated in November 2015.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee is required to: determine and make recommendations to the Board on the Groups framework and policy for executive remuneration and its costs: determine individual remuneration packages for the executive directors, and have oversight of the remuneration packages of senior executives below Board level: exercise the powers of the Board in relation to the Companys all-employee and long-term incentive share plans: set and oversee the selection and appointment process of remuneration advisers to the Committee: and report to shareholders on an annual basis on the work of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on the Committees activities at the Board meeting immediately following each meeting.
74 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 74 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Committee composition The Committee comprised the following members during the financial year ended 31 January 2016.
From Attendance Clare Chapman Chairman 16 02 2011 6 6 Daniel Bernard 03 06 2009 6 6 1 Andrew Bonfield 17 06 2010 5 6 2 Janis Kong 08 12 2006 5 6 Mark Seligman 22 01 2016 1 1 1 Andrew Bonfield was unable to attend the January 2016 meeting due to illness.
2 Janis Kong ceased to be a member of the Committee upon her retirement from the Board on 1 February 2016.
Janis did not attend the December 2015 meeting, called at short notice, due to a prior commitment.
Non-executive directors may attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The following individuals attended meetings during the year at the request of the Committee: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief People Officer and the Head of Group Reward.
No individuals were present when their own remuneration or benefits were discussed.
Activities during the year The significant matters considered by the Committee during 2015 16 included: agreeing the award level of the 2014 15 annual bonus: agreeing the performance targets for the annual bonus for the 2015 16 financial year and monitoring progress against those targets: considering and agreeing the exit arrangements for Kevin OByrne: considering the Companys approach to and the impact of changes to the National Minimum Wage, Low Pay and fairness: conducting a strategic review of remuneration in view of the new strategy: and undertaking a shareholder consultation process, which resulted in the Committee recommending the new Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2016 AGM.
Advisors to the Committee During the financial year ended 31 January 2016, the following external advisors provided services to the Committee.
Unless otherwise stated, the advisors have no other connection with the Group, and the Committee firmly believes that the advice received was, and continues to be, objective and independent.
 LLP PwC PwC were appointed by the Committee as its principal advisors on 1 February 2013 following a robust tender process.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the professional body for executive remuneration consultants.
PwC provided the Committee with executive remuneration advice, including advice relating to the operation of employee and executive share plans, and in particular advice during the strategic review of reward undertaken during 2015 16.
The fees paid to PwC during 2015 16 were 243,840.
These fees were incurred on a time and expenses basis.
The Committee also conducted a review of its effectiveness during the year, a part of which considered the advice received from PwC.
It was determined that PwC provides objective and independent advice to the Committee.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Freshfields Freshfields provided legal advice to the Committee on employment and remuneration issues.
Freshfields also provides advice to the Group on other legal matters.
Fees paid to Freshfields were 38,347.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2015, the Annual Report on Remuneration was put to an advisory vote.
At the Annual General Meeting on 12 June 2014, the Directors Remuneration Policy was put to a binding vote.
The results of the votes were as follows: Proportion of Shares on which Votes for Votes against share capital votes were Resolution and % of votes cast and % of votes cast voting withheld Annual Report on Remuneration 1,679,245,535 98.23% 30,289,770 1.77% 73.51% 11,879,890 Directors Remuneration Policy 1,702,954,306 98.93% 18,469,399 1.07% 72.68% 3,461,480 The Remuneration Policy contained within this report will be subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the AGM on 15 June 2016.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the same meeting.
I look forward to seeing you all at the AGM, where I will be available to answers any questions you may have about the work of the Committee.
For and on behalf of the Committee Clare Chapman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 March 2016 www.
