Governance Directors remuneration report Weare planning to streamline reward policies and practices across all levels and job roles.
Our areas of focus include: the impact and differentials of the National Living Wage across our Retail estate: tracking and reporting in respect of equal pay: gender reporting: and engaging all colleagues in share ownership.
To enable this, we are requesting shareholder approval for the SAYE plan rules to be amended to extend eligibility to territories outside the UK.
For 2017, Jim Mullen and Paul Bowtell will be granted an award under the Ladbrokes Coral Group PSP.
The performance measures for this award have been established EPS, TSR, Net Debt to EBITDA ratio and Responsible Gambling : the Committee has replaced FCF with the Net Debt measure to reinforce the reduction in the Groups debt, as highlighted in the Merger Prospectus.
Further details on the target ranges for all four measures can be found on pages 84 and 85.
Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Ladbrokes Coral The Committee also reviewed the targets for the balance of the Group Directors Remuneration Report for 2016.
This is my first performance period from 1 January 2017 for the 2015 and 2016 report since becoming the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Ladbrokes PSP awards to ensure they are relevant for the new inOctober 2016, taking over from David Martin.
On behalf of the enlarged Group.
Details on the new targets can be found on page 81.
Board I would like to thank David for his commitment over the previous three years.
Remuneration in 2016 2015 was a momentous year for the Company but 2016 has been For the 2016 Ladbrokes annual bonus, up to 60% of the maximum truly transformational culminating in the creation of the bonus opportunity was dependent on stretching profit targets Ladbrokes Coral Group on 1 November.
withthe remainder dependent on individual objectives.
Forthe Chief Executive Officer this included a number of financial and The purpose of the creation of the Ladbrokes Coral Group was to strategic measures which were primarily focused on the delivery bethe biggest, best and most admired business in our industry.
ofPlan A and the acceleration of this strategy through successful This will be delivered by a focus on faster online growth, making completion of the merger.
In 2016, operating profit excluding High themost of the largest UK Retail estate, growing an extensive Rollers and exceptional items was 101.7 million.
This is between international portfolio and driving significant synergy savings.
Goal 2 100 million and Goal 3 110.0 million.
This strong financial performance, combined with successful delivery of his Bringing together a listed company and a similar sized business individual objectives, resulted in an annual bonus for the Chief owned by private equity is not without challenges, particularly Executive Officer of 613,095 which is 68.6% of maximum.
inharmonising rewards, and this is reflected in our proposals.
Furtherdetails on the 2016 bonus targets and resulting bonus New remuneration principles outcomes can be found on page 79.
We have set out amended principles for future remuneration in The Chief Financial Officer participated in the Coral Stub Bonus theRemuneration summary.
Our new approach follows extensive planwhich rewarded for Corals EBITDA and operating cash flow consultation with shareholders who were both supportive and performance from 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016. positive when we shared our plans.
That said, we have sought to CoralsEBITDA and operating cash flow targets were met in full and incorporate changes where there were alternative views or therefore he received a payment of 112,175 for Corals performance concerns to help ensure the closest possible alignment with post 1November 2016.
Further details can be found on page 79. shareholders and to future business needs.
Carl Leaver is participating in the Synergy Bonus Plan.
This bonus The proposals we have made to change our existing remuneration issubject to achieving certain synergy measures and will be calculated schemes are aimed at optimising the transition of both businesses and paid by 31 December 2017.
Further details can be found on page 69. to the new enlarged Group.
As we implement these changes and The 2014 PSP awards were based on three year TSR performance evolve remuneration policies, I want to emphasise that we will and three year EPS growth to 31 December 2016.
Threshold continue to engage fully with shareholders.
targets for both measures were not met and therefore these At the AGM to be held on 4 May 2017, we will be seeking binding awards will lapse in full.
Further details on performance against the shareholder approval for our revised Remuneration Policy and 2014 PSP targets can be found on pages 79 and 80. approval on an advisory basis of the Annual Report on The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring that Remuneration.
executive reward arrangements always support the Companys direction of travel and objectives and we continue our commitment Remuneration for 2017 to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders.
I would We have provided a Remuneration summary to capture all the key welcome your views on the report and hope to have your support elements of the executive reward package.
This covers the salary, at the upcoming AGM.
bonus and share arrangements for our senior executives JimMullen, Carl Leaver and Paul Bowtell.
We have aligned remuneration to business needs not only for the Groups executives but also for the wider colleague population.
Stevie Spring Chair of the Remuneration Committee 64 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Key changes in 2017 Remuneration summary The Committee determined that the existing Ladbrokes plc Our principles remuneration framework was broadly appropriate for the newly Support integration and build one-team with one culture: combined Group with the following key changes: Encourage collaborative, long-term decision making: 2017 Annual Bonus an increased focus on financial Reward sustainable growth, long-term returns to shareholders performance moving the level of bonus dependent on and cash generation: financial achievements from 60% to 80%: Ensure pay is set fairly and competitively in our markets: Pensions new executive directors in the future will Foster wider share ownership across the Group: and receive a pension contribution limited to 15% of salary Be simple, transparent and easily understood.
previously 22.5% : The introduction of more extensive malus and clawback Key governance information provisions for cash and deferred annual bonus and PSP Full Remuneration Policy and its intended application awards see page 70 for further details previously only pages 66 to 77: limited malus provisions applied to deferred annual bonus Annual Report on Remuneration pages 78 to 86: and andPSP awards : Request for shareholder approval to renew the Ladbrokes Share ownership the increase of the Chief Executive Officers Coral Group plc Performance Share Plan which was approved share ownership requirement to two times salary and to one by shareholders in 2007 and would otherwise expire on and a half times salary for the Chief Financial Officer: 17May 2017.
Share award levels the increase of the Chief Executive Officers award under the Performance Share Plan from 175% to 200%of salary: and Notice period the Chief Executive Officer is now required to give nine months notice before terminating employment.
Chief Executive Officers total reward summary for 2016 000 Salary Benefits Annual bonus Share plans Pension Total Jim Mullen 542 13 613 122 1,290 2017 Proposals Element of pay Implementation in 2017 Base salary Salaries were set in November 2016.
No changes are planned in 2017.
Jim Mullen 650,000 Carl Leaver 585,000 Paul Bowtell 535,500 Pension and benefits Current executive directors will receive cash supplements of 22.5% of salary in lieu of pensions.
Benefits include healthcare, car allowance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Annual bonus 170% of salary Chief Executive Officer and 130% of salary Chief Financial Officer bonus maxima remain unchanged 80% of bonus based on financial targets and 20% on strategic measures One-third of bonus continues to be deferred into shares for three years Both malus and clawback provisions apply Ladbrokes Coral Group plc 200% of salary award for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary award for the Chief Financial Officer PSP Measures for the 2017 plan are EPS, Relative TSR, Net Debt to EBITDA and Responsible Gambling.
All have the same weighting of 25% Mandatory post-vesting holding period of two years continues to apply Both malus and clawback provisions apply Deputy Executive 12-month fixed-term contract Chairman arrangements Synergy Bonus potential bonus of 170% of salary based on total projected synergies Payable by the end of December 2017 Share ownership guidelines Increase to two times salary for the Chief Executive Officer and one and a half times salary for the Chief Financial Officer Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Future policy report The following sections set out the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, which will be subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 4 May 2017.
If approved, the Policy will come into effect on that date and will apply to incentive awards with performance periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The principal changes to the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM are as follows: Inclusion of clawback provisions to any deferred annual bonus and PSP awards and malus and clawback provisions to any cash bonusmade to the executive directors from 2017 onwards.
This is in addition to current malus provisions which have been extended: Increase in shareholding guidelines from 100% of salary to two times salary for the Chief Executive Officer and one and a half times salaryfor the Chief Financial Officer: Annual bonus opportunity for executive directors now capped at 170% of salary: at least 80% of the bonus is dependent on financial achievements previously 60% : Adoption of a normal PSP opportunity of up to 200% of salary versus 175% under the Ladbrokes PSP : Adoption of a cap on the value of pension contributions, or cash in lieu of pensions, of 15% of salary.
This will apply to any future executive director hires as current executive directors are contracted to receive 22.5% of salary: Increase in the Chief Executive Officers requirement to give Ladbrokes Coral notice from six to nine months: and Inclusion of synergy bonus as it applies for the Deputy Executive Chairman.
These changes have been proposed to ensure remuneration arrangements continue to be aligned to current and future business needs aswell as to shareholders preferences.
Policy table Fixed remuneration How do we know if we are Why do we pay what we pay?
How does pay get reviewed?
Are there any upper limits?
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salary Core element of remuneration Salaries are typically reviewed While there is no set maximum Overall performance of the reflecting the size and scope of annually by the Remuneration salary increase, salary increases business and the individual are an individuals responsibilities, Committee with any change for executive directors will key considerations in setting experience, and contribution normally being effective from normally be in line with increases salary levels.
Salary levels are set at a level The Remuneration Committee Higher increases may be awarded toattract and retain the talent typically takes into consideration in individual circumstances, at the necessary to deliver the a number of internal and external Remuneration Committees business strategy.
factors when setting salaries, discretion, including, but not including: limited to: business and individual a significant increase in scope performance: and or responsibility of the role: the individuals skills and or experience: if a new executive director is affordability: appointed at a lower salary inflation: which is to be aligned with the market positioning: and market over time based pay and conditions elsewhere in on performance.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to review salaries at any point as it considers appropriate.
com How do we know if we are Why do we pay what we pay?
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits Fixed element of remuneration Benefits to executive directors While no maximum monetary Overall performance of the providing market competitive may include private healthcare for value exists, benefits are set by business and the individual are benefits to support the attraction the executive director and their taking into account a number of key considerations in setting and retention of talent.
family, critical illness, disability factors including market practice package levels.
and life assurance, injury in service for comparable roles within benefits, an allowance for tax appropriate pay comparators and advice and a cash allowance in lieu taking into account individual of a company car.
The Remuneration Committee Participation in the Share keeps the benefits offered, Incentive Plan and the Savingsthe policies and levels under Related Share Option Scheme regular review.
is limited to the maximum The Remuneration Committee award levels permitted by the may also remove benefits that relevant legislation or any lower executive directors receive or limit set by the Remuneration introduce other benefits if it Committee from time to time.
considers it is appropriate to do so.
Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional benefits, if considered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys two all-employee share plans the Share Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
Pension Fixed element of remuneration to Executive directors can opt to In general, the levels of cash None.
assist with retirement planning join the Companys defined supplement and or employerwhich supports the attraction and contribution scheme, take a defined contribution provided are retention of talent.
cash supplement in lieu or intended to be broadly market a combination of the above.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee keeps the cash supplement and or reserves the right to make employer-defined contribution adjustments to these levels in the level under regular review.
The pension contribution and or Executive directors joining after cash supplement is not included in the approval of this Policy will calculating annual bonus or receive pension benefits capped long-term incentive levels.
Other executive directors who joined prior to 1January 2017 will continue to receive their contractual benefit of 22.5% of salary.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Variable remuneration How do we know if we are Why do we pay what we pay?
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Reward exceptional performance Performance is measured over Up to 170% of base salary.
Performance is measured on an annual basis against key one year: bonus is payable after againsta combination of financial financial metrics and demanding the year end.
Measures and targets are At least 80% of the bonus will be Deferral into shares for additional reviewed and determined based on financial measures and periods is intended to enhance by the Remuneration the remainder on strategic shareholder alignment and Committee annually.
No bonus will be help retention.
The Remuneration Committee awarded if a threshold level reviews the performance against ofprofit is not achieved in the these targets after the year end bonus year.
to determine the level of bonus Strategic measures selected pay-out.
mayvary each year depending A portion of any bonus earned onbusiness context and strategy, currently one-third is and will be weighted according compulsorily deferred into an tobusiness priorities.
These award over shares or equivalents objectives are reviewed and in nil-cost options or cash under approved by the Remuneration the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
Committee at the start of the These share awards are not subject financial year.
to any further performance Between 0% and 100% of the conditions, will not normally vest maximum award applies for the for a period of at least three years achievement of financial and will normally lapse if the measures tracked on a straight participant leaves employment line basis from a base level target before the vesting date.
to a stretch performance target Participants may receive the value coupled withstrategic measures.
in cash or shares of dividends paid on shares that vest in respect of the period between the grant and vesting of a deferred bonusaward.
Malus and clawback apply, as set out in the Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Malus and Clawback policy summarised on page 70 of thisreport.
The annual bonus is operated in accordance with the terms of the annual bonus plan and DBP rules which include the capacity for the Remuneration Committee to adjust or amend the terms of the awards.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Performance Share Plan PSP Reward the long-term success Awards will be structured in the Normal awards are up to 200% Awards vest based on performance ofthe business.
form of conditional share awards of salary.
against a combination of Help retain executives.
or equivalents in nil-cost options The Remuneration Committee performance measures.
Share based to provide or cash with vesting dependent will have the discretion to make At least 50% of the award will be alignment with on the achievement of stretching higher awards in exceptional based on financial measures and shareholderinterests.
performance measures over at circumstances subject to the up to 50% will be based on TSR least three years.
individual plan limit of 250% performance.
Any balance would Any vested shares will be of base salary.
be linked to performance against mandatorily held for an additional specific strategic objectives.
two years by executive directors.
For threshold levels of Dividends equivalents or performance, up to 25% of the reinvestment may apply during award vests, increasing on a the vesting period only on shares straight line basis to 100% of that vest.
the award for maximum Malus and clawback provisions performance.
apply, as set out in the In line with the rules of the PSP, LadbrokesCoral Group plc Malus the performance condition may and Clawback policy which is be replaced or varied if an event summarised on page 70 of occurs or circumstances arise, e. g. this report.
a significant regulatory change, which causes the Remuneration Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine that asubstituted or amended performance condition would be appropriate so that the amended performance condition can continue to achieve its original purpose.
Synergy bonus Reward applicable executives Performance is measured against Up to 170% of salary.
Performance is measured against todeliver synergies related to pre-determined synergy targets.
The Deputy Executive Chairman pre-determined projected synergy themerger.
The Remuneration Committee isthe only executive director saving targets.
determines the level of pay-out whoparticipates in this plan.
For the projected threshold based on projected synergies.
achievement ofsynergies, a Awards are to be made in cash.
synergy bonus equivalent to 100% of basesalary is payable, increasing on a straight line basis to 170% ofsalary for achievement of thestretch synergy target.
There is no synergy bonus payableif projected synergies arebelow threshold.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued To encourage share ownership and ensure alignment of executive For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration interests with those of shareholders, the Chief Executive Officer is Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, required to hold shares equivalent to two times base salary, while the inrelation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment Chief Financial Officer is required to hold one and a half times salary.
areagreed at the time the award is granted.
Executives are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Selection of performance measures Companys incentive plans until the shareholding guidelines are met.
The Remuneration Committee determined that profit and strategic measures remain applicable for the annual bonus while EPS, TSR Notes to the policy table and Responsible Gambling remain appropriate for the 2017 PSP.
For the avoidance of doubt, it is the Companys policy to honour in For 2017 PSP awards the Remuneration Committee decided to fullany pre-existing obligations that have been entered into prior replace the FCF measure with Net Debt to EBITDA ratio to reflect tothe effective date of this Policy.
Therefore, the Remuneration the importance of the improvement of the balance sheet health of Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration the Company, in-line with the statements made on deleveraging in paymentswhere the terms of these payments were agreed: the 2016 merger prospectus.
PSP measures are equally weighted to 1. before the Policy came into effect: or ensure executives remain focused appropriately on each objective.
2. at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
2017 performance measures for annual bonus and PSP Variable remuneration element Performance measure Link to strategy How targets are set Annual bonus PBIT Profit Before Interest Achieving PBIT targets evidences the Set by the Remuneration Committee to and Tax, net finance expense success of the Groups strategy and reflectkey objectives for the financial and non-trading items facilitates further investment year, with reference to the Ladbrokes Coral and return to shareholders.
25%: Earnings Per Share Focus on successful product and new Set by the Remuneration Committee to market development, innovation and roll out.
Targets are set taking into account internal and 25%: Total Directly rewards for long-term external reference points, including Shareholder Return shareholder value.
the Ladbrokes Coral business plan and PSP Measures the Groups ability to pay down 25%: Net Debt to brokerforecasts.
debt and reinforces the importance of EBITDA ratio significant cash flow generation.
25%: Responsible Gambling Embeds Responsible Gambling into everything we do.
Malus and clawback summary Malus and clawback will apply to awards in-line with the Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Malus and Clawback Policy as amended from time to time.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply to annual bonus including Deferred Bonus Plan and PSP awards made from February 2017 onwards.
These provisions will apply in exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, the following : Mis-statement: Misconduct: Material loss: and An error in assessing any applicable condition or conditions relating to the performance of the Company or participant.
The Committee in these circumstances has the discretion to: Reduce bonus payments and or PSP and DBP vesting, including to zero: and Reclaim up to 100% of any bonuses paid or vested PSP and DBP awards, within 2 years of vesting.
com Timeframe of remuneration arrangements The table below shows the timeframe of executive directors remuneration arrangements.
Element of remuneration 2017 Y Y 1 Y 2 Y 3 Y 4 Y 5 Y 6 Salary 100% Paid Benefits including retirement benefits 2 3 paid in cash Subject to clawback and subject to Performance malus Annual bonus Period 1 3 deferred as shares for Subject to clawback three years and subject to malus PSP 100% subject to two-year Performance Period holding period Subject to clawback subject to malus subject to malus Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed to be aligned with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Although there are differences in pay between the executive directors and the wider colleague population, all reward arrangements are built around the common objectives and principles outlined below: Remuneration principles Arrangement s used for the wider Group Support integration and build a one-team with one culture: Approximately 55 senior managers participate in PSP with the same Encourage collaborative, long-term decision making: performance metrics as for executive directors.
Reward sustainable growth, long-term returns to shareholders Ladbrokes Coral also has a restricted share plan which is used to recruit, and cash generation: motivate and retain selected key talent.
Ensure pay is set fairly and competitively in our markets: All-employee share incentive schemes will be in operation for all Foster wider share ownership across the Group: and employees the Share Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Be simple, transparent and easily understood.
Option Scheme to encourage share ownership.
Key Group financial and strategic measures under colleague bonus arrangements are aligned with those for the executive directors to ensure consistency across the organisation and delivery of strategic goals.
Colleagues also have relevant team and individual targets to focus the team on key deliverables in their area of business.
The Group strongly encourages all employees to own shares in LadbrokesCoral Group plc.
Pension and benefits arrangements for all colleagues have been established against a range of criteria including affordability and market practice for comparable roles: this helps ensure consistency across the entire employee population including executive directors.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Chairman and non-executive directors How do we know if we are Why do we pay what we pay?
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Non-Executive Chairman and nonexecutive directors NEDs fees Sole element of remuneration, The Non-Executive Chairman While there is no maximum Annual Board performance paid for fulfilling the relevant role.
receives an all-inclusive fee for the individual fee level, fees are set at evaluation and continuous review role plus an allowance to meet a level which is considered by the Chairman.
costs associated with his role as appropriate to attract and retain the primary liaison with the the calibre of individual required majorshareholders.
by the Company, but the The remuneration of the Company avoids paying more Non-Executive Chairman is set by than necessary for this purpose.
The Board may determine fee NEDs receive a basic annual fee in increases at any point as it respect of their Board duties.
considers appropriate in-line with Further fees are paid in respect of market movements and to take chairmanship and membership of into account the time certain Board committees.
Fees are normally based on the Fees are paid for the following level of fees paid to Chairmen and roles duties: NEDs serving on boards of similar Non-Executive Chairman: companies, the time commitment senior independent required of the role and the duties non-executive director SID : involved and take into consideration other NEDs: the requirement to attract and supplementary fee for chair retain the quality of individuals of the Audit, Remuneration or required by the Company.
Social Responsibility Committees Fees are normally reviewed as long as not the SID : and annually.
supplementary fee for The Board is responsible for membership of the Audit, determining fees for other NEDs, Remuneration, or the Social although the NEDs are not Responsibility Committees.
involved in discussions about their The Chairman and NEDs are not own fees.
eligible for annual bonus, share Fees are normally paid in cash, incentives and pensions.
although the Company retains Reasonable expenses, e. g. travel, the right to settle all part of the accommodation and subsistence fees in shares of equivalent value.
associated with Chairman and NEDs duties will be reimbursed, including any tax due on the benefits.
Not paid to Chairman, SID or to the Chairs of the Committees.
com Recruitment policy Principles and approach Component Policy General In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive appointments to the Board including internal promotions, theRemuneration Committee applies the following principles: The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious that any arrangements should be in the best interests of Ladbrokes Coral and our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary: The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, the nature ofthe role, local market practice, the individuals current remuneration package, Ladbrokes Corals remuneration policy, internalrelativities and existing arrangements for other executive directors: Typically, the remuneration package for a new appointment will be based on or be transitioned onto the same elements ofthe remuneration package as the other executive directors, in line with the policy table presented earlier in this report.
Base salary Salaries will reflect the skills and experience of the individual, and may be set at a level to allow future salary progression to and benefits reflect performance in the role.
Executive directors will be eligible to receive benefits in line with Ladbrokes Corals benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
This includes additional benefits relating to relocation.
Pension New hires will be entitled to receive pension benefits worth up to 15% of salary per annum.
Variable pay It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the variable pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy annual bonus table presented earlier.
However, at recruitment, the Remuneration Committee would retain the discretion to flex the balance and PSP between annualand long-term incentives and the measures used to assess performance for these elements, with the intention that a significant portion would be delivered in shares.
At recruitment, variable pay could, in exceptional circumstances, be delivered via alternative structures, again with the intention that a significant portion would be share based, but in all circumstances subject to the overriding cap of 420% of salary.
The Committee also retains the right to determine that in the first year of appointment any annual bonus award will be subject to such conditions as it may determine.
Buy-out awards To facilitate recruitment, and in exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make compensatory payments and or awards for any remuneration arrangements subject to forfeiture on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of any terms attached to the forfeited arrangements.
Awards will take such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors such as the nature of the award, any performance conditions attached to those awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the proportion of vesting performance period remaining.
The Remuneration Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than the value forfeited.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual circumstances when an interim executive director is required to fill a role on a short-term basis or if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a non-executive director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table on page72.
Disclosure The remuneration structure of any new director will be disclosed in a timely manner and, as far as possible, in the relevant Regulatory News Service notification at the time of appointment.
The Remuneration Committee will fully explain to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements in the next remuneration report.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Executive director service contracts The key employment terms and conditions of the current executive directors as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below.
Notice period months Termination payment Treatment of remuneration Company policy Nine months by executive May terminate employment Participation in all incentive plans, and Company by making a payment in lieu including the annual bonus and the PSP ofnotice PILON equivalent is non-contractual to the value of base salary and Outstanding awards will be treated in benefits including pension accordance with the relevant plan rules allowance in respect of the notice period PILON payments are reduced if the executive director finds employment during the nine month notice period Jim Mullen Nine months by executive In-line with Company policy In-line with Company policy Effective date of amended contract and Company 1 November 2016 Paul Bowtell Nine months by executive In-line with Company policy In-line with Company policy Effective date of contract and Company 1 November 2016 Carl Leaver Fixed term 12 months contract Balance of salary and benefits In-line with contract Effective date of contract for remainder of the fixed term 1 November 2016 Details of Carl Leavers service contract were included in the Merger Prospectus dated 27 October 2016.
Given the nature of his role, it was agreed that a 12-month fixed term was appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee does not intend to enter into fixed term contracts for future executive directors.
com Policy on payment for loss of office The Remuneration Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for an executive director: The Remuneration Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations: a being consistent with the Policy set out in this report: or b if they are inconsistent having been entered into on a date on or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with relevant legislation: The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which executive directors may currently hold awards: Other payments which may be made as a result of loss of office include legal fees within an agreed maximum limit, outplacement counselling within an agreed maximum limit, payment for any outstanding accrued holiday and any other payments required by statute: and The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that there should be no reward for failure.
When exercising any discretion under the plans referred to below, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the individuals departure and performance in the role.
Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for any other leaver Annual bonus plan Ill health and disability.
Where a participant has a minimum No bonus.
of six months full service in the Redundancy.
relevant year a cash bonus will be Any other scenario in which paid.
This amount will be subject to the Remuneration Committee the achievement of the financial determines good leaver and strategic objectives set at the treatment is justified.
beginning of the plan year.
Any payment will be following the end of the relevant financial year and will be pro-rated for time served during the year, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
Any amounts which would have ordinarily been deferred into the deferred bonus plan may be paid in cash at the same time.
The Remuneration Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to pay a bonus as it considers appropriate.
Deferred bonus plan Injury, ill health or disability.
Awards will vest usually at the normal Unvested awards lapse in full if Death.
cessation of employment occurs prior Redundancy.
to the vesting date or are under notice.
Retirement by agreement with the employing company.
Transfer of whole or part of the business which the participant is employed outside the Group.
Synergy bonus The executive will not be entitled to Payments will be made after the No synergy bonus.
the synergy bonus if the Committee expiry of the normal fixed term terminates his employment in line 31 October 2017 and before with contractual breaches.
PSP Injury, ill-health or disability.
Awards will usually vest at the normal Unvested awards lapse in full if Death.
cessation of employment occurs Redundancy.
Awards will vest to the extent Retirement by agreement with that performance conditions the employing company.
have been satisfied and on a time Transfer of whole or part of the apportionedbasis.
business by which the participant is employed outside the Group.
All-employee share plans Leaver treatment under these plans is in accordance with HMRC rules.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Corporate events affecting discretionary share plans Ladbrokes Corals discretionary share plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as approved by shareholders and amended from time to time in accordance with these rules.
In particular, the plan rules provide for adjustments in certain circumstances.
For example, awards may be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend, reorganisation or similar event.
In the event of a change in control or winding up of the Company, existing share awards under these plans will be treated as follows: Plan Treatment in an event of a change of control Deferred Bonus Plan Vest in full on the date, or immediately prior to, the date on which the change in control occurs or court sanction.
Performance Share Plan Vest on or immediately prior to the date on which the change in control or court sanction occurs to the extent the Remuneration Committee determines the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time-apportioned basis, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion to determine otherwise.
Awards under the share plans may vest on the same basis in the event of a voluntary winding up of the Company.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment The non-executive directors, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Period After the initial term, non-executive directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Whilst appointed for a three-year term, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all nonexecutive directors are subject to annual re-election shareholders at each AGM.
Termination The appointment of a Chairman or a non-executive director is terminable without notice by either the Company or the director.
Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not entitled to any compensation upon leaving office.
Availability of documentation All executive directors service contracts and the letters of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at theCompanys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting on4May 2017 from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
Illustration of our forward-looking remuneration policy In support of the remuneration philosophy, Ladbrokes Corals remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The following charts provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for the executive directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
com In-line with the regulations, the illustrations show the potential remuneration levels under Ladbrokes Coral forward-looking remuneration policy.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Executive Chairman PSP Annual bonus Fixed package PSP Annual bonus Fixed package Synergy bonus Fixed package 000s 000s 000s 3,500 3,500 3,500 3,215 41% 3,000 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,167 37% 2,000 2,000 2,000 1,725 1,687 34% 58% 19% 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,317 1,216 32% 33% 45% 16% 1,000 1,000 1,000 810 730 667 29% 100% 48% 25% 100% 55% 42% 100% 55% 31% 500 500 500 0 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target performance performance performance performance performance performance performance performance performance Plan Assumptions used All performance scenarios Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits cash allowance in lieu of pension Base salary salary effective as at 1 April 2017 Benefits estimated to be received by each executive director in 2017 based on 2016 value Pensions estimated to be received by each executive director in 2017 based on 2017 salary Minimum performance No pay-out under the annual bonus No vesting under the PSP No pay-out under synergy bonus On-target performance 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements 25% vesting under the PSP 59% of the maximum pay-out under the synergy bonus Maximum performance 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements 100% vesting under the PSP 100% of the maximum pay-out under the synergy bonus Please note that PSP awards have been shown at face value PSP opportunity applied to salary at 1 April 2017.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Although the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of colleagues throughout the Group when determining remuneration arrangements for executive directors, the Committee did not formally consult with employees when formulating the Policy set out in this report.
Information relating to wider workforce remuneration is provided in regular updates to the Remuneration Committee.
This takes the form of a comparison of reward elements across all main workforce groups, updates on total reward communications and details of business wide reviews such as annual bonus awards and salary increases.
Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder views when evaluating and setting on-going remuneration strategy, and we commit to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to our remuneration policy.
Minor amendments to policy The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to directors to aid in its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval for a revised version of this policy.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Variable pay Fixed pay Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Annual report on remuneration Audited information The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 82 represents the audited section of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2016, with prior year figures also shown.
The data for 2016 consists of what was paid to directors of Ladbrokes pre-merger and what has been paid to Ladbrokes Coral directors post-merger, i. e. 1 November to 31 December 2016.
Cash allowance Salary in lieu Long-term a b c d e f All figures shown in 000 and fees Benefits of pension Annual bonus incentives Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 g Current executive directors Jim Mullen 542 375 13 10 122 84 613 98 1,290 567 Paul Bowtell 89 2 20 112 223 Carl Leaver 98 2 22 122 Former executive directors Ian Bull 64 400 2 13 14 110 102 90 80 715 h Chairman and non-executive directors John Kelly 288 77 3 9 291 60 Mark Clare 25 25 Christine Hodgson 72 52 72 52 Mark Pain 73 6 73 6 Stevie Spring 25 25 Rob Templeman 11 11 Former non-executive directors Sly Bailey 36 50 36 50 David Martin 43 60 43 60 Richard Moross 17 53 17 53 Methodology a Salary and fees this represents the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive directors services 2015: nil.
b Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Executive director benefits include private healthcare for the executive and their family, and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
c Cash allowance in lieu of pension executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 22.5% of salary.
As disclosed in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report, Ian Bull received an overpayment of 2,250 which was offset accordingly against his termination payments.
d Annual bonus bonus of 113.1% of salary was awarded to the Chief Executive Officer for the 2016 performance year.
One third of his bonus was deferred into shares for three years.
The Chief Financial Officer received a bonus of 112,175 under the Coral Stub Bonus plan for Corals performance between 1 November and 31 December 2016, one third of which is also deferred into shares for three years.
Further details are provided on page 79. e Long-term incentives this figure represents the value of long-term incentive plans with a performance period ending in the relevant year.
The 2015 and 2016 figures reflect that no shares vested under the 2013 and 2014 awards under the PSP.
f Other Ian Bull was paid a temporary monthly allowance of 10,000 between 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015.
This table does not include payments relating to Ian Bulls loss of office which can be found on page 81.
In 2015, John Kelly received an expense payment of 8,690 representing the reimbursement of the costs of holidays which he had to cancel due to corporate activity associated with the proposed merger with Gala Coral.
g Remuneration in 2015 for Jim Mullen covers only his period since his appointment as Chief Executive Officer.
Jim Mullen was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2015 he was previously the Managing Director of Ladbrokes Digital.
His salary, bonus, benefits and pensions for 2015 have been pro-rated to reflect the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Remuneration in 2016 for Paul Bowtell and Carl Leaver also cover only the period since their appointment to the Board of Ladbrokes Coral from the merger on 1 November 2016.
Their salaries, benefits and pensions for 2016 have been pro-rated to reflect the period from 1 November 2016 to 31 December 2016. h John Kellys Chairman fee is 300,000 p. a. which he has received from 1 November 2016, previously he received 285,000 p. a. Non-executive directors receive a basic fee of 65,000 p. a. from 1 November 2016 previously the base fee was 43,000 or 55,000 depending on timing of appointment.
The senior independent non-executive director received a fee from 90,000 p. a. from 1November 2016 onwards: previously this role received 70,000 p. a.
Additional fees are payable for the roles of the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Social Responsibility Committees at arate of 15,000 p. a. from 1 November 2016 previously these roles received 15,000, 10,000 and 0 respectively.
Fees for membership of the Audit, Remuneration or Social Responsibility Committees are at a rate of5,000 p. a. previously 7,000 was paid for serving on the Audit and or Remuneration Committees.
David Martins fee was paid to Arriva plc by mutual agreement up to hisdeparture date of 21September 2016.
com The Chief Financial Officer participated in the Coral Stub Bonus Additional disclosures in respect Planwhich rewarded for Corals performance from 1 October to of the single figure table 31December 2016.
Historically Coral have operated an annual Salaries bonus scheme which ran from 1 October to 30 September, The salaries for the current executive directors, Jim Mullen, Paul however, in order to align the combined business under one Group Bowtell and Carl Leaver were set on 1 November 2016, the date scheme in 2017, a stub plan operated during the last quarter of ofthe merger, at 650,000, 535,500 and 585,000, respectively.
The plan was agreed by the Coral Board and implemented These salaries were set taking into account performance to date, prior to the merger.
the new scale and complexity of the enlarged business, skills 80% of the Coral Stub Bonus was dependent on Corals EBITDA andexperience and particularly with reference to new internal versus budget with the remaining 20% dependent on Corals differentials.
Jim Mullens salary prior to the merger was 525,000. operating cash flow versus budget.
The operating cash flow The majority of shareholders consulted at the time understood and element of the scheme only pays out if Corals operating cash flow were supportive of the increase.
exceeds budget and 95% of budgeted EBITDA.
Annual bonus For 1 October to 31 December 2016, Corals EBITDA was 7.4% The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to the aheadof budget: maximum pay-out under this element requires Chief Executive Officer in respect of 2016: performance 4% ahead of budget.
Corals operating cash flow was 2016 As % of 1.5 million ahead of budget.
Therefore, Paul received a maximum annual bonus 2016 salary bonus under the plan equivalent to 112,175 for Corals performance Jim Mullen 613,095 113.1% post-merger during 1 November to 31 December 2016.
60% of the 2016 annual bonus was based on operating profit for The Remuneration Committee considers that the Coral budgets, as the year excluding profit from High Rollers and exceptional items.
a legacy of a private company, should remain private, and therefore The targets are as follows: will not be published.
However, although legacy Coral bonus plans are paid entirely in cash, Paul has agreed to receive one-third of his % of bonus bonus as shares which are deferred for three years.
This is to ensure Operating element Bonus Targets profit payable alignment with Jims bonus arrangements and with the Goal 1 95.4m 52% Remuneration Policy.
Goal 2 100.0m 67% For 2017, Paul will be in the standard Ladbrokes Coral annual bonus Goal 3 110.0m 100% plan, for which targets will be disclosed following the end of the The remaining 40% of the 2016 annual bonus was based on individual performance period consistent with the practice for listed objectives see details for the Chief Executive Officer below.
Further detail on this plan can be found on page 84.
The individual objectives element of the bonus was subject to a Performance Share Plan PSP profit underpin which is equal to the Goal 1 target of 95.4million.
The PSP value shown in the single figure table nil relates to the 2014 award, for which the performance period was 1 January 2014 In 2016, operating profit excluding High Rollers and exceptional to 31 December 2016.
This was just above the Goal 2 target of The performance conditions for this award are set out below: 100.0 million.
This strong financial performance means that 72.4% of his maximum bonus for financial performance is payable.
50% of the award three year relative TSR performance against Jim successfully delivered against his individual objectives which agroup of sectoral peer companies.
included the delivery of Ladbrokes Plan A strategy during the year: The peer group for the 2014 award is set out below: successful delivery of the Ladbrokes Coral merger and subsequent integration including the commencement of the harmonisation 888 Holdings Paddy Power ofcultures: and the development of an effective senior management Boyd Gaming Punch Taverns team structure.
This has resulted in him receiving a personal Bwin PartyGaming Rank Group performance rating of4 out of 5 which means that 63.2% of his Enterprise Inns Whitbread maximum bonus for individual performance is payable.
Mitchells & Butlers William Hill OPAP Two-thirds of the bonus was paid in cash with the remainder in The original comparator group consisted of 13 comparators: shares deferred for a further three years.
The Committee believes however Sportingbet and GTech were removed for the entire that this bonus outcome fairly rewards performance delivered by performance period as they were acquired in March 2013 and the Chief Executive Officer during the year under review.
1 Stated after charging amortisation on acquired intangibles excluding those arising on the Coralacquisition and excluding the impact of the acquired Coral Group on the Consolidated Income Statement.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Three year TSR growth versus sectoral peer growth 25% of the award based on TSR percentage outperformance of sector peers % vesting Median Upper quartile TSR % outperformance Percentage of the of sector comparators award vesting 100 Less than median 0% Median 25% Median 10% p. a.
100% Straight line vesting operates between these points.
The peer group for the 2016 award is set out below: 25 888 Holdings Sportech GVC Holdings William Hill 0 Paddy Power Betfair TSR growth If the peer group for 2016 were to fall below five companies, i. e. inthe event of takeovers, a peer would be selected from a reserve 50% of the award three year EPS growth.
list of companies which for 2016 include, Betsson, Rank Group andPlaytech.
This would ensure that the peer group consists of a Three year EPS growth minimum of five companies.
The replacement company would be % vesting 6% p. a.
10% p. a. effective for the entire performance period.
100 25% of the award based on three-year cumulative EPS performance Percentage of the EPS performance award vesting Less than 21.7 pence 0% 21.7 pence 25% 26.4 pence 100% 25 Straight line vesting operates between cumulative EPS performance of 21.7 pence and 26.4 pence.
Cumulative EPS 0 performance excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
EPS growth 25% of the award based on three-year cumulative FreeCash Flow FCF performance Actual performance Vesting as % of element Percentage of the Relative TSR 9 out of 11 companies 0% FCF performance award vesting EPS growth Less than 6% p. a.
0% Less than 219m 0% Total vesting 0% of maximum 219m 25% 310m 100% There will be nil vesting of the PSP awards made in 2014.
Straight line vesting operates between FCF performance of Scheme interests awarded during the 219million and 310 million.
financial year FCF for the purposes of the Plan is defined as the net cash flow Performance Share Plan awards from operating activities plus dividends received from joint For 2016, PSP awards were granted over Company shares with ventures and associates, less income taxes paid, net capital thenumber of shares under award determined by reference to expenditure and net interest payments including bond coupons.
Performance for these awards is FCF excludes distribution of dividends, repayment of debt and measured over the three financial years from 1 January 2016 merger and acquisition activity.
They were subject to the following performance conditions until 31 December 2016.
25% of the award based on performance against responsible gambling measures The measures in relation to this element of the award are determined and independently measured and assessed by the Social Responsibility Committee through a set of KPIs.
These KPIs reflect the UK Gambling Commissions objectives and regulatory and voluntary sector-level changes as well as our own initiatives.
These KPIs were to be assessed over the three-year performance period using three annual scorecards and the cumulative impact over the same period.
com As these are commercially sensitive, the Remuneration Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee intend to disclose targets and the performance level only at the end of the performance period.
As with all measures under the 2016 PSP, threshold performance results in 25% of this element of the PSP vesting.
The Committee reviewed the targets for the 2015 and 2016 Ladbrokes PSP awards for the balance of the performance period post-merger from 1 January 2017 in terms of relevance to the new enlarged Group.
The Committee decided to make the following changes to targets for these awards for the remainder of the period from 1 January 2017 in order to balance alignment with the 2017 PSP award and the objectives of the new enlarged Group and previously set targets and measures: EPS targets will mirror the EPS targets for the 2017 PSP with growth of 5% p. a. required for threshold vesting 25% of the EPS element increasing on astraight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth of 12% p. a.
There will be no vesting for EPS growth below 5% p. a: Responsible gambling will be based on targets set to be achieved by FY17 and FY18 rather than assessing the average performance across annual scorecards and cumulative impact over the remaining period.
These targets, along with performance, will be disclosed to shareholders at the end of the performance period: FCF targets will be set to mirror the same deleveraging profile for the Net Debt to EBITDA ratio measure for the 2017 PSP.
These targets will be set shortly and disclosed to shareholders via Ladbrokes Corals website: and No change to the TSR outperformance targets or to the peer groups for the 2015 and 2016 PSP awards.
The following table provides details of the awards made under the PSP in 2016: Face value % Threshold Maximum End of Number of of salary at 1 vesting % of vesting % of performance Type of award shares Face value January 2016 face value face value period Jim Mullen Performance 752,364 874,999 175% 25% 100% 31 December shares 2018 Face value has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to the date of grant 10 May 2016 of 116.3 pence.
Vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions as detailed earlier.
Paul Bowtell did not receive a 2016 PSP award as the grant date was before the date of the merger.
Carl Leaver did not receive an award.
Share Incentive Plan awards Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
During 2015 and 2016, Ian Bull participated in the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
During 2016, none of the current executive directors participated in the SIP.
Payments to past directors There were no payments made to past directors in 2016.
Payments for loss of office As disclosed in last years Annual Report, Ian Bull left Ladbrokes on 26 February 2016.
In 2016, he received 145,815 for loss of office which was paid in five monthly instalments after his departure.
This amount equates to the appropriate number of months of base salary, pension and benefits reduced by the 42,500 which he received in advance in 2015 as well as by pre-agreed reduction as he found alternative employment.
He also received a 6,000 payment for outplacement counselling services and 11,538 in lieu of accrued untaken holiday as at his leaving date.
He was not entitled to receive any vesting under his 2014 PSP award, however he is entitled to receive any vesting of his 2015 PSP award at the normal vesting date.
As detailed in last years Remuneration report, the Committee at the time disapplied any time pro-ration and will not apply the additional two-year holding period.
Under the rules of the all-employee Share Incentive Plan and the relevant tax legislation, Ian Bull retained his shares due to his good leaver status.
This includes 1,757 bonus shares termed free shares under tax legislation, 2,216 salary shares termed partnership shares under legislation and 246 dividend shares.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests Directors shareholdings and share ownership guidelines The Companys shareholding guidelines require the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to build up over time a personal shareholding equivalent in value of two times and one and a half times salary respectively.
Executives are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
Shares which the executive directors hold outright and or vested shares under the Companys share plans count towards the requirement.
Unvested share awards only count towards the requirement if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
Unexercised Interests in Interests in interests in share incentive share incentive option schemes, Shares owned schemes, without schemes, subject without outright at Shares owned performance to performance performance 31 December 2015 outright at conditions at conditions at conditions at or later date 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 of date of Actual shareholding 1 2 3 4 1 Director or date of cessation or date of cessation or date of cessation or date of cessation appointment % of base salary 5 Jim Mullen 120,139 29,543 2,078,487 15,345 37,005 27% 6 Carl Leaver 11,702,441 6 Paul Bowtell 1,763,323 422% John Kelly 77,441 58,041 7 Mark Clare 50,000 Christine Hodgson 15,000 15,000 7 Stevie Spring Mark Pain 50,000 50,000 6 Rob Templeman 7,498,252 Previous directors 8 9 Ian Bull 851,548 1,698 546,348 7,672 827,642 10 Richard Moross 5,000 5,000 11 Sly Bailey 10,000 10,000 11 David Martin 55,000 55,000 1 Includes partnership shares and dividend shares under the SIP.
2 This relates to shares awarded under the DBP and bonus shares awarded under the SIP.
3 This relates to outstanding shares awarded under the PSP.
4 This relates to outstanding options under the SAYE scheme.
5 Includes 83,134 shares retained by Jim Mullen following the vesting of an award under the RSP during the year.
6 Carl Leaver, Paul Bowtell and Rob Templeman were appointed as a director on 1 November 2016.
7 Mark Clare and Stevie Spring were appointed as directors on 21 September 2016.
8 Ian Bull ceased to be a director on 26 February 2016.
9 Includes 23,780 shares retained by Ian Bull following the vesting of an award under the DBP, and 126 partnership shares under the SIP purchased by Ian prior to ceasing to be a director.
10 Richard Moross ceased to be a director on 5 May 2016.
11 Sly Bailey and David Martin ceased to be directors on 21 September 2016.
For the purposes of determining executive director shareholdings, the individuals salary at the year end and the three-month average share price to 31 December 2016 has been used.
No changes in Directors share interests have occurred between 31 December 2016 and 27 March 2017.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
com Historical TSR performance and Chief Executive Officers remuneration outcomes As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE250, it is considered an appropriate indication of market movements against which to benchmark the Companys performance.
The chart below summarises the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE250 index overthe eight-year period to 31 December 2016.
Eight year TSR performance FTSE 250 Ladbrokes Coral 31 Dec 400 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2016 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 The table below summarises the Chief Executives single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-outs and long-term incentive vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over the eight-year period to 31 December 2016.
Chief Executive 1 2 Director Officer 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chief Executive Christopher Bell 0.9m 0.7m Officer single figure Richard Glynn 1.0m 1.2m 2.5m 4.7m 0.7m 0.2m of remuneration Jim Mullen 0.6m 1.3m Annual bonus pay out as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 76% 50% 50% 0% 0% 15% 69% Long-term incentive 3 vesting out-turn includes PSP and LGP opportunity, shown as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 0% 0% 82% 38% 0% 0% 0% 1 The above number for Christopher Bell in 2010 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure.
Richard Glynn was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 22 April 2010 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
2 The above number for Richard Glynn in 2015 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure.
Jim Mullen was appointed asChiefExecutive Officer on 1 April 2015 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
The annual bonus payout relates to what was paid to Jim Mullen in 2015 as ChiefExecutive Officer.
3 Increases in total compensation in 2012 and 2013 have been as a result of increased pay outs under the Companys long-term incentive plans, as a result of meeting the relevant performance targets, e. g. PSP and LGP.
Richard Glynn did not receive any changes to salary or cash allowance in lieu of pension from his appointment in April 2010 to his departure in March 2015.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benefits including cash allowance in lieu of pension and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer and that of a representative group of the Companys colleagues.
For these purposes, we have used all UK-based colleagues as the comparative group, as this represents the most appropriate comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Chief Executive Officer.
% change in benefits including cash allowance % change in % change in base salary in lieu of pension annual bonus 2016 vs. 2015 2016 vs. 2015 2016 vs. 2015 Chief Executive Officer 4.2% 2.1% 369.2% All UK-based colleagues 3.8% 1.6 % 131% The percentage changes for the Chief Executive Officer have been determined with reference to the aggregate numbers for Jim Mullen and Richard Glynn for 2015 and 2016 as appropriate when undertaking Chief Executive Officers responsibilities.
Please see the single figure table for further information.
More information about Jim Mullens pay change on 1 November 2016 is shown on page 79.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued The table below shows cash allowances for 2017: Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below illustrates the current year and prior year overall 2017 cash allowance in lieu of pension % of salary expenditure on pay and dividends paid.
Jim Mullen 146,250 22.5% Relative importance of the spend on pay Paul Bowtell 120,488 22.5% 2015 2016 Carl Leaver 109,688 22.5% m 2017 cash allowance has been calculated taking into account a 400 23.7% zerosalary increase from 1 April 2017.
Carl Leavers cash allowance 350 351.5 is theamount he is expected to receive during his fixed term to 300 October 2017.
284.1 250 Please note that the executive directors do not have a prospective 200 right to defined benefit pension arrangements.
150 Annual bonus 100 58.5% The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain at 170% of 50 base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 130% for the Chief 48.5 30.6 0 Financial Officer in 2017.
1 Overall expenditure Dividends on employee pay The table below provides further information on the performance measures against which performance will be measured: The figures presented have been calculated on the following basis: Relative weighting Overall expenditure on employee pay represents total staff % of maximum bonus opportunity costs: and 1 Financial PBIT 80% Dividends dividends paid or declared to be paid in respect Strategic measures 20% ofthe year.
1 Profit Before Interest and Tax, net finance expense and non-trading items.
1 Total dividend per share FY2016: 3.0 pence FY2015: 3.0 pence.
Profit is the key financial measure for Ladbrokes.
The strategic Implementation of the remuneration policy measures element of the bonus remains subject to a profit underpin.
in 2017 The annual bonus targets are considered commercially sensitive, This section provides an overview of how the Committee is because of the direct link between the selected performance proposing to implement the remuneration policy in 2017 subject measures and strategy.
However, in next years Annual Report, to shareholder approval of the Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Carl Leaver wecommit to providing shareholders with as much context as is not eligible to receive an award under the 2017 annual bonus reasonable, on performance against those targets and the resulting orPSP.
He will continue to participate in the Synergy Bonus Plan bonus out-turn rationale, within commercial constraints.
which is detailed on page 69 of this report.
PSP It is anticipated that Jim Mullen will receive a 2017 PSP award of Base salary 200% of his salary, while Paul Bowtell will receive a 2017 PSP award In determining salary increases for 2017, the Remuneration of 150% of salary.
Committee took into consideration recency of reviews and determined that there will be no increase for the executive directors.
The Committee reviewed the performance conditions and decided for the 2017 PSP to simplify the EPS condition by using point-toThe table below shows base salaries for 2017: point EPS growth and make the TSR outperformance condition Base salary from 1 April 2017 more robust with the benchmark being based on a sector peer Jim Mullen 650,000 group and the FTSE101-200.
Performance for these awards will Paul Bowtell 535,500 bemeasured over three financial years from 1 January 2017 to Carl Leaver 585,000 31December 2019.
The performance conditions are as follows: Benefits 25% of the award will be based on point-to-point EPS growth Benefits are generally set at an appropriate market competitive EPS performance Percentage of award vesting level, taking into account comparable roles within appropriate Less than 5% p. a.
100% There will be no changes to the benefits package received by executive directors in 2017.
Straight line vesting operates between EPS performance of 5% p. a. and 12% p. a.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension The executive directors have elected to receive a cash allowance of22.5% of salary in lieu of pension, and there will be no change tocash allowance levels for 2017.
com 25% of the award will be based on TSR outperformance of a Other benchmark based 50% on the median TSR of sector peers and External appointments 50% on the median TSR of the FTSE101-200 The Company recognises the benefits of executive directors taking on external appointments as non-executive directors, TSR % outperformance of sector comparators Percentage of award vesting subject to the limitations set out in the Policy Report and to Less than benchmark 0% Committee approval.
100% Paul Bowtell is currently a non-executive director of Capita Plc and Straight line vesting operates between TSR equal to benchmark receives an annual fee of 64,500 and is Non-Executive Chairman and benchmark 10% p. a. of Alua Hotels for which he receives an annual fee of 80,000, and Carl Leaver joined the board of Carluccios Ltd as non-executive The sector peers for the 2017 award are set out below: Chairman in September 2016 and receives an annual fee of 80,000.
The Company has agreed that Paul and Carl can retain 888 Holdings Playtech their fees.
GVC Holdings Rank Paddy Power Betfair William Hill Ian Bull is a non-executive director of St Modwen Properties PLC.
For the period from 1 January until 26 February 2016, Ian received In an event of a takeover of one or more of these peers during the fees of 8,753 which he was allowed to retain.
performance period, the Remuneration Committee will decide how Consideration by the Committee of matters relating the peer will be treated including whether to replace with another to directors remuneration company for the entire performance period.
The Ladbrokes Coral Board entrusts the Committee with the 25% of the award will be based on Net Debt to EBITDA Ratio responsibility for the remuneration policy in respect of executive Net Debt to EBITDA Ratio Percentage of award vesting directors and senior executives and ensuring its ongoing More than 1.5 0% appropriateness and relevance.
In setting the remuneration for 1.5 25% these groups, the Committee takes into account the pay and 1 100% conditions of the wider workforce as a matter of course.
Straight line vesting operates between Net Debt to EBITDA ratio Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year of1.5 and 1. and the attendance of Committee members is shown below: 25% of the award will be based on responsible Number of meetings Number of gamblingmeasures Directors as at eligible to meetings Responsible gambling targets will continue to be set, and 31 December 2016 attend attended independently assessed, by the Social Responsibility Committee Stevie Spring 3 3 through a set of KPIs with targets set to be achieved by FY2019.
1 Mark Clare 3 1 These KPIs will reflect regulatory and voluntary sector-level 1 Christine Hodgson 9 7 changes as well as Ladbrokes Corals own initiatives.
John Kelly 9 9 Mark Pain 3 3 As these targets are commercially sensitive, the Remuneration Former members Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee intend to 1 Sly Bailey 6 4 disclose targets and the performance level only at the end of the David Martin 6 6 performance period.
As with all measures under the 2017 PSP, Richard Moross 3 3 threshold performance will result in 25% of this element of the 1 Mark Clare, Christine Hodgson and Sly Bailey were each unable to attend two Committee PSPvesting.
meetings due to prior business commitments.
Non-executive director remuneration The members of the Committee that served during the year were: The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure as at 1 January 2017.
Directors as at Appointment Committee 31 December 2016 date role 2017 fees Stevie Spring 21 September 2016 Chair Mark Clare 21 September 2016 Member Chairman inclusive of Board member fee and 20,000 payment 320,000 Christine Hodgson 15 January 2013 Member Senior independent non-executive director 90,000 John Kelly 3 December 2015 Member Board member 65,000 Mark Pain 21 September 2016 Member Additional fee for chairmanship of Audit, Former members Remuneration or Social Responsibility Committee 15,000 1 Sly Bailey 14 May 2010 Member Additional fee for membership of the Audit, 1 David Martin 5 December 2013 Chair Remuneration or Social Responsibility Committee 5,000 2 Richard Moross 15 January 2013 Member To meet costs associated with his role as the primary liaison with the major shareholders.
1 Ceased to be a member Chair of the Committee on 21 September 2016.
Not payable to the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
2 Ceased to be a member of the Committee on 5 May 2016.
There are no additional fees for membership of the Nomination Committee.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Governance Directors remuneration reportcontinued The Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the senior reward lead attend Committee meetings by invitation, other than when their personal remuneration is being discussed.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Kepler, a brand of Mercer which ispart of the MMC group of companies Kepler.
Kepler are the appointed advisers to the Remuneration Committee since 2014 following a competitive retender and have been retained in 2016.
Services provided by Kepler included advice on remuneration packages for executives, updates on corporate governance trends and drafting the Directors remuneration report, as well as other ad hoc advice related to remuneration.
Keplers fees are charged at an hourly rate.
The fees paid to Kepler in relation to advice provided to Committee for 2016 were 85,455.
Deloitte LLP also provided the Company with a TSR monitoring update and received 1,750 for their services in 2016.
Deloitte LLP also provides the Company with internal audit and miscellaneous tax and consulting services.
Kepler and Deloitte LLP are signatories to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be found onthe Remuneration Consultants Groups website at www.
Mercer provides advice to pension trustees in Ireland for Ladbrokes pensions and advice to the trustees of Corals UK pension funds.
However, the Committee is satisfied that neither Kepler as a part of Mercer or Deloitte LLP in providing remuneration advice to the Remuneration Committee, had any connection that impaired its independence.
Shareholder voting The table below outlines the result of the votes on the 2015 Directors remuneration report at the 2016 AGM: Number of AGM date votes cast For Against Withheld Annual Report on 379,672,923 275,865,755 2016 Remuneration 655,538,678 57.92% 42.08% 48,878,365 The Remuneration Policy Report was last approved at the 2014 AGM where it received a 98.0% for vote.
The Board notes the vote in respect of the Directors remuneration report and understands that it reflects shareholder concern expressed over the disapplication of time pro-ration on Ian Bulls 2015 PSP award.
The Board was very aware of shareholder observations and these played a key part in the Boards thinking as remuneration was considered for the business going forward and the merger with Gala Coral.
Shareholder input into Remuneration Policy for the new company, following the merger with Gala Coral, has been much appreciated and is reflected in this report.
On behalf of the Board Stevie Spring Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2017 86 ladbrokescoralplc.
