GOVERNANCE Directors report on remuneration introduction Our remuneration report is organised into LESLEY KNOX the following sections CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION Letter from the Remuneration 68 COMMITTEE Committee Chair At a glance 70 Remuneration policy 72 Annual report on remuneration 82 The directors remuneration policy will be subject to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM, and is intended to apply for the next three years.
The annual report on remuneration together with the Chairs Statement will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
Letter from the Chair Proposed minor change for 2017 remuneration policy With effect from 2017 onwards, the performance measures Dear Shareholder used for AVP will be re-weighted such that 70% will be based On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the on financial performance previously 80%, with the remainder Remuneration Committees report on remuneration for 2016, 30% based on non-financial but measurable performance.
having taken over as Chair of the committee in October.
2016 The full detail of the performance measures used will be is the third year under our current remuneration policy and we will be presenting the policy for approval by shareholders developed on an annual basis as is currently the case in at the 2017 annual general meeting.
order to ensure that they remain appropriate and aligned to delivery of strategy.
For the non-financial measures the focus Background to the remuneration policy will be on a small number of measurable factors related to Prior to the approval of the current remuneration policy in risk management, business and customer strategy and culture.
2014, the committee undertook an extensive review and In line with our current approach, we will continue to provide made a number of significant changes to the policy, including shareholders with comprehensive disclosure on the actual introducing a new Performance Share Plan.
The changes to performance measures and targets used for AVP in the annual the policy were designed to align remuneration more strongly remuneration report in respect of the financial year on which with the delivery of the commercial strategy of the business.
Over the life of the current remuneration policy it is our view that the company has delivered against its key strategic Board changes objectives, for example through the growth and development In addition to my own recent appointment to the Board, there of retirement solutions, increased investment direct into capital have been a number of other Board appointments in the projects and digital solutions in areas including retail protection second half of 2016 and in early 2017. and lifetime mortgages.
Sir John Kingman joined as Chairman on 24 October 2016 and, For 2017 were proposing to make only one minor change following Mark Gregorys announcement of his retirement, to the remuneration policy in relation to the weighting of Jeff Davies joins the Board as CFO on 9 March 2017.
Kerrigan performance measures for annual variable pay AVP.
The Procter, the CEO of our retirement business has also been change is in response to regulatory guidance from the PRA appointed to the Board as an executive director with effect and FCA in relation to the use of a balanced scorecard of from 9 March 2017. measures in particular taking account of risk management Mark Gregory will step down from the Board on 9 March but when determining annual bonus awards.
Other small changes has agreed to remain an employee until 31 August to assist have been made to ensure that the Committee is able to with an orderly handover.
Up until retirement Mark will operate the policy in the intended manner.
continue to receive his current salary and benefits.
Mark will not receive an AVP award for performance in 2017, nor, as was the case in 2016, will he receive a PSP award for 2017.
Consistent with the payments for loss of office policy, Mark 68 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION will be a good leaver and as such his outstanding share awards external market, and the wider remuneration policy and will be treated in line with the good leaver provisions in the practice across the business.
In order to provide additional transparency we have considered On appointment, Jeff Davies base salary was set at 500,000. it appropriate to voluntarily include information on the ratio In Iine with the approved policy, his pension contribution was set of the CEOs pay and the wider population, and we will at 13.8% of salary, and his maximum AVP and PSP opportunities continue to consider this ratio when making future were set at 150% and 250% of salary, respectively.
For Kerrigan Procter on appointment, his base salary was set Remuneration policy implementation for all employees at 475,000 and his pension contribution was set at 15% of From January 2016 remuneration for code staff and all salary.
His maximum AVP opportunity was set at 175% of employees became subject to the guidelines laid out in salary, in line with his existing remuneration and in line with Solvency II.
During 2015 the committee had reviewed the Mark Zinkula CEO LGIM, and his PSP opportunity in line with existing policy against the guidelines and, whilst there was other executive directors at 250% of salary.
not a requirement for a material change to the approach to In line with best practice, the base salaries for both individuals remuneration, a new Solvency II remuneration policy was reflect that these are their first appointments as executive introduced at the beginning of 2016. directors.
Subject to performance, the Committee may reposition Through the year consideration has continued to be given to their base salaries as they progress into the role over time.
the application of the guidelines in particular to the application of risk adjustment to variable remuneration and the inputs Performance for 2016 of the CRO and Risk Committee to remuneration decisions.
As indicated by the financial performance figures outlined elsewhere in the report pages 32 to 39, Legal & General Legal & General is committed to ensuring that remuneration again delivered strong performance during 2016, and particular across the organisation is appropriate and fair for all highlights include operating profit up 7.4%, a 19% increase employees.
We have been a member of the Living Wage in earnings per share and a full year dividend of 14.35 pence.
Foundation since 2013 and have undertaken equal pay audits internally for a number of years.
Annual variable pay AVP In 2016 we also signed the Women in Finance Charter as part Page 84 to 85 details the targets and outcomes relating to the of our ongoing efforts to ensure that there is gender diversity year as well as remuneration received relating to the year.
In across the business and within the senior leadership team.
summary, for performance in 2016 the committee approved awards for the executive directors of between 78% and 93% Ongoing review of policy of maximum to reflect the financial performance of the group, We feel that the current remuneration policy, with the minor and the LGIM division as appropriate.
For the non-financial changes described above, remains appropriate.
However, over performance element, the performance of each of the the next 12 months the remuneration committee will refine its executives is between 75% and 100% of maximum.
views on the remuneration policy and we will seek the views of the new Chairman and other Board members, taking into Performance share plan PSP account the changing external environment with regard to The end of 2016 was the end of the performance period for the executive remuneration.
PSP granted in 2014, which was the first under the new plan approved by shareholders in 2014.
The award vested at 65.8% Particular areas of focus will be: of maximum which reflects the strong earnings and dividend The balance of fixed to variable remuneration growth of the company, and total shareholder return relative Reviewing vesting outcomes under the PSP against to the FTSE 100 over the last three financial years.
company performance As explained later in the report page 82, due to a change Time horizons of incentives in the way in which performance was measured between Refining our approach to incorporating risk factors into our the new PSP and the old PSP, to reflect latest market practice, variable remuneration the single figure of remuneration for 2016 will also include the value of the 2013 PSP award, which was the last award Reviewing our policy against shareholder views and granted under the old PSP.
Based on Legal & Generals strong emerging regulatory and political guidance and regulation relative shareholder return over the performance period, the Dependent on the outcome of this review, if the committee award vested at 87.2% of the maximum.
were to consider it appropriate to make significant changes, it may bring a new policy to a shareholder vote ahead of the Base salary increases in 2017 normal three-year cycle.
Across the UK employee population the average base salary increase was 2.6%.
Finally, on behalf, of the Committee, I want to thank my predecessor Rudy Markham, for his strong leadership of the Nigel Wilson and Mark Zinkula will receive an increase of Committee over the last five and a half years in developing 2.6% and 2.5% respectively which is in line with the average our current executive remuneration structure.
The base salaries for Jeff Davies and Kerrigan Procter will be as set out above.
Appropriateness of executive remuneration In considering the level of remuneration for the executive team the Committee consider both external and internal factors Lesley Knox including shareholder views, market conditions for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee business, competitiveness of remuneration against the INTRODUCTION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 69 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION At a glance Our performance Financial measures used for Annual Variable Pay AVP The performance measures below accounted for 4080% of AVP performance assessment for our Executive Directors for their 2016 AVP award.
% of % of target maximum Further Performance measure 2016 Target Maximum achieved achieved information Release from operations 1,256m 1,246m 1,306m 101% 96% p34 Net release from operations 1,411m 1,304m 1,356m 108% 104% p34 Operating profit 1,628m 1,565m 1,624m 104% 100% Adjusted EPS 22.20p 20.40p 21.53p 109% 103% p38 Adjusted ROE 19.6% 18.0% 19.7% 109% 99% p38 Solvency II surplus emerging m 1,252m 1,150m 1,310m 109% 96% p84 As at 31st December 2016 Vesting of 2014 performance share plan awards Vesting of 50% of the 2014 performance share plan awards 150 Bespoke PSP was determined by reference to TSR of the FTSE 100 peer group 25% and the bespoke comparator group 25% over a Legal & three-year performance period.
The accompanying chart sets General 125 out the TSR performance over the past three years ending FTSE 100 31 December 2016.
The vesting of the other 50% of the 2014 PSP awards was 100 determined based on EPS growth of 11.8%, DPS growth of 15.6% and ROE of 18.2%, further details on the underlying targets are provided on page 86.
Based on the level of 75 performance achieved the 2014 PSP award vested at 65.8% 2013 2014 2015 2016 in March 2017.
Legal & General FTSE 100 Bespoke peer group How much our executive directors earned in 2016 3-year performance 3-year performance ended 31 May 2016 ended 31 December 2016 Fixed AVP PSP value on vesting PSP value on vesting Nigel Wilson 1,073 1,167 1,731 1,316 Mark Gregory 718 821 1,064 899 Mark Zinkula 986 832 1,064 899 The fixed element for Mark Zinkula includes an international Nigel Wilson 1,073 1,167 1,731 1,316 allowance relating to the US aspect of his role and some legacy housing assistance which concluded at the end of 2016.
Mark Gregory 718 821 1,064 899 As explained later in the report page 82, due to a change in the way performance was measured between the new PSP Mark Zinkula 986 832 1,064 899 and the old, to reflect latest market practice, the single figure of remuneration for 2016 will include the value of both the 2013 and 2014 PSP awards.
Fixed AVP PSP performance period ending 31 May 2016 PSP performance period ending 31 December 2016 70 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION How we will implement our remuneration policy in 2017 The table below sets out a high level summary of our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, which will be presented for approval at our 2017 Annual General Meeting, as well as how that policy will be implemented in 2017.
Full details of the policy subject to shareholder approval can be found on page 72.
Key elements Current policy Implementation for 2017 Commentary Normally reviewed annually Nigel Wilson salary 909,000 p. a.
Salary effective from 1 March each year Jeff Davies salary 500,000 p. a.
Mark Zinkula salary 625,500 p. a. Kerrigan Procter salary 475,000 p. a.
For the CEO and CFO 70% financial and Nigel Wilson maximum opportunity AVP 30% strategic and personal objectives 150% of salary For the CEO, LGIM and the CEO LGR the Jeff Davies maximum opportunity group financial element is reduced to 35%, 150% of salary with the remaining 35% determined by Mark Zinkula maximum opportunity divisional performance and 30% strategic 175% of salary and personal objectives Kerrigan Procter maximum opportunity One year performance 175% of salary Paid 50% cash, 50% L&G shares deferred three years Three-year performance period, with shares 250% of salary for Nigel Wilson, Jeff Davies, PSP released in three equal tranches following the Mark Zinkula and Kerrigan Procter start of third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of No award for Mark Gregory given the start of the performance period his announced retirement For awards made in 2017, performance will be measured against: A performance matrix of EPS and dividend per share growth, subject to a RoE underpin 50% of award.
Threshold vesting requires growth rates of 5% for both measures: and achievement of ROE underpin of 12% Relative TSR against FTSE 100 25% of award and bespoke group of insurance companies 25% of award.
Threshold vesting at median TSR performance Maximum award of 300% of salary Clawback and malus provisions apply to AVP and PSP awards as set out in the full policy.
Shareholdings against guidelines Actual share New guidelines on ownership as share ownership % of 2016 base salary: as a % of vested shares base salary Guideline met Nigel Wilson 1,076% 300% Yes Mark Gregory 1,103% 200% Yes Mark Zinkula 354% 200% Yes AT A GLANCE LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 71 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Directors remuneration policy The following sections set out our directors remuneration policy the policy which will be subject to shareholder approval by way of a binding vote at the 2017 AGM on 25 May 2017.
This policy is expected to apply, subject to approval, from the date of the AGM.
Remuneration 2017 Policy Element Base Salary Purpose and link To help recruit and retain executive directors of the calibre required to develop, lead and deliver the business strategy.
to strategy Operation The Committee sets base salary taking into consideration: The individuals skills, experience and performance: The scope of the role: Pay and conditions elsewhere in the group: Overall business performance: and External market benchmark data in other FTSE 100 companies and other relevant bespoke groupings of financial and non-financial institutions.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with increases effective 1 March.
Opportunity Whilst there is no maximum base salary, any increases for executive directors will normally be in line with the range of increases for other UK employees in the wider group.
In specific circumstances, the Committee may award increases above this level, for example: Where the Committee has set the base salary for a newly appointed executive director with a view to allow the individual to progress into the role over time: or Where, in the Committees opinion, there has been a significant increase in the size or scope of an executive directors role or responsibilities: or Where there is a significant change in the regulatory environment.
Performance Personal performance will be taken into consideration in determining any salary increase.
72 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration 2017 Policy Element Benefits Purpose and link Benefits are provided to executive directors to attract and retain the best talent for the business and to ensure that the total to strategy package is competitive in the market.
Operation The Committees policy is to provide executive directors with a market competitive level of benefits, taking into consideration benefits offered to other senior employees in the UK, the individuals circumstances and market practice at similar companies.
Benefits provided to executive directors are normally in line with benefits provided to other senior employees in the UK.
Benefits currently provided to executive directors include: a car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, Group Income Protection, and insured death in service arrangements.
These are all in line with our general policy for other UK employees.
In line with other Legal & General employees, executive directors can choose to acquire Legal & General products, and are eligible to participate in the companys voluntary benefits which they fund themselves, sometimes through salary sacrifice.
They are eligible to participate in the UK all-employee share plans on the same terms as other employees.
The two current all-employee share plans are: The savings-related share option scheme SAYE The all employee share incentive plan Where an executive new or current is required to re-locate, or perform duties outside their home country in order to fulfill their duties, in line with our mobility policy and practice, additional benefits may be provided, for example: home country benefits such as health care and additional support in relocating such as assistance for housing, school fees, travel home, relocation costs and tax advice.
Opportunity In line with other UK employees, there is no maximum level for the benefits as this is dependent on the individuals circumstances and the cost to the company.
The maximum opportunity for participation in the current all-employee share plans is in line with other employees and takes into account the prevailing HMRC rules.
Relocation international assignment benefits the level of such benefits would be set taking into account the circumstances of the individual and typical market practice.
Performance There are no performance conditions.
Pension Purpose and link The policy aims to provide competitive post-retirement benefits and therefore recognise sustained contribution.
to strategy Operation Pension contributions are set at an appropriate level to attract and retain high performing people.
In line with other employees in the UK, executive directors currently participate in either a defined contribution pension plan, a defined benefit pension plan or receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, or have some combination thereof.
The defined benefit pension plan was closed to new joiners in 2001.
From 2009, increases in pensionable salary for the defined benefit pension plan for remaining active members have been limited to a maximum of 2.5% each year and in 2015 the scheme was closed to future accruals.
For executive directors who took enhanced protection in 2006, a cash allowance was provided in lieu which may be reviewed or amended by the employer.
Non-UK national executives may be permitted to participate in home-country pension plans where relevant.
Base salary is the only element of pensionable remuneration.
At the discretion of the Committee, executive directors may elect to sacrifice all or part of their cash AVP into pension.
Opportunity New executive directors receive 15% of base salary into the defined contribution pension plan they contribute 5%.
This contribution level for executive directors is the same as that operated for senior managers in the rest of the UK organisation in the defined contribution pension plan.
As for other employees, there is a cash alternative.
Mark Zinkula may also contribute part of any cash allowance into a US 401k pension plan.
Mark is also a member of a cash balance plan in the US.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 73 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration 2017 Policy Element Annual Variable Pay AVP Purpose and link Incentivise executive directors to achieve specific group and or divisional, financial, strategic and personal predetermined to strategy goals, within the groups risk appetite and taking into consideration the companys culture and values, on an annual basis.
The deferred proportion of AVP into shares reinforces retention and enhances alignment with shareholders by encouraging a longer-term focus and risk alignment.
Operation Performance targets and weightings are set annually by the Committee to ensure they are appropriately stretching.
Performance is normally assessed over a one-year period.
AVP out-turns are determined by the Committee after the year end, taking into consideration performance against targets, the underlying performance of the business and individual performance.
The Committee may exceptionally adjust the outcome of the AVP calculation if it believes there are underlying circumstances that justify such a change.
Normally, 50% of any AVP awarded is deferred.
Deferred awards are normally awarded in the form of restricted shares or nil-cost options or phantom equivalent if appropriate.
However awards may be deferred in other forms dependent upon business or regulatory requirements.
Deferred awards will vest after a period set by the Committee.
This period will normally be three years.
Dividends on deferred awards made in the form of shares accrue during the deferral period and normally are paid in the form of shares to the executive directors upon vesting.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on awards made in other forms.
Deferred awards are subject to malus.
Clawback provisions also apply to both deferred awards and cash awards paid.
The Committee may adjust and amend the awards in accordance with the rules.
Opportunity The maximum award opportunity in respect of any financial year is based on role as follows: For the Group Chief Executive and CFO the maximum potential is 150% of base salary.
For the CEO LGIM and the CEO LGR the maximum potential is 175% of base salary.
The award opportunity at threshold performance is 0% of minimum, with up to 50% of maximum bonus payable for target performance for the Group Chief Executive, CFO and CEO LGR.
Up to 60% of maximum bonus is payable for target performance for the CEO LGIM.
Performance Performance measures are selected by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis to ensure that they are aligned with the groups strategic priorities and the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Performance is measured based on an appropriate mix of group and or divisional financial performance targets as well as strategic including customer and employee measures and personal measures.
Performance measures are weighted with normally up to 70% based on financial targets.
The split between financial, strategic and personal performance measures and the relative weighting of group and divisional performance targets will be kept under review by the Committee on an annual basis.
74 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration 2017 Policy Element Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link Awards under the PSP are reflective of the Committees desire that the remuneration of executives should be weighted to strategy towards the delivery of sustainable returns to shareholders over the longer term.
In addition to deferred awards under the AVP, awards under the PSP enhance alignment with shareholders by focusing executives on the longer-term performance of the business.
Operation Award of shares or options which are subject to a performance period of normally no less than three years.
Performance is normally measured after the end of the three-year performance period.
Subject to performance, awards are normally released in three equal tranches following the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
The Committee retains discretion to lengthen the performance period and holding period for future awards.
The Remuneration Committee may also amend the final level of vesting dependent on the underlying performance of the group.
The Committee may only exercise such discretion downwards and may not increase the level of vesting.
The parameters which the Committee uses in making this assessment will include, but are not limited to, market share, partnerships entered into and maintained, cost constraint, shareholder perception, capital management and a range of risk measures to ensure that the company has operated within appropriate risk thresholds.
Financial performance targets are set annually by the Committee to ensure they are relevant and sufficiently stretching.
PSP awards are normally awarded in the form of nil cost options or conditional shares or phantom equivalent where appropriate.
However they may be awarded in other forms if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Dividends or dividend equivalents accrue in the period following the end of the performance period until vesting and release.
These will normally be paid in shares on a reinvested basis.
PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
The Committee may adjust and amend the awards in accordance with the PSP rules.
Opportunity The maximum award opportunity under the PSP is 300% of salary in respect of any financial year.
The Remuneration Committees current intention is that the normal award opportunity in respect of any financial year will be 250% of base salary for all executive directors.
15% of the award normally vests for threshold performance increasing to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
Performance Performance measures for the PSP are selected by the Remuneration Committee to be aligned with the groups long-term strategic priority of delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
The Committee therefore intends to grant awards based on an appropriate mix of earnings, capital efficiency and shareholder return measures.
The split between these measures, for each grant, is set annually by the Committee and will normally be 50% based on total shareholder return and 50% on financial measures.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 75 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy The charts below illustrate the executive directors fixed remuneration defined below and how much they could earn for target and maximum performance for 2017.
Nigel Wilson Jeff Davies Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer 000 000 Fixed Fixed 100% 1,106k 100% 595k Remuneration Remuneration On-target 52% 32% 16% 2,129k On-target 51% 32% 16% 1,158k Maximum 23% 29% 48% 4,742k Maximum 23% 29% 48% 2,595k Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives Mark Zinkula Kerrigan Procter Chief Executive officer LGIM Chief Executive officer LGR 000 000 Fixed Fixed 100% 1,004k 100% 566k Remuneration Remuneration 49% 36% 15% 1,160k On-target 53% 35% 12% 1,896k On-target Maximum 27% 30% 43% 3,663k Maximum 23% 29% 48% 2,585k Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives Fixed Annual Variable Element Long-term objectives In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Fixed remuneration Consists of 2017 base salary, benefits based on the value included in the single figure for 2016 and pension.
On-target In addition to fixed remuneration, includes the potential value that each executive director could receive for target performance: Annual variable element pays out at 50% of maximum for the Group Chief Executive, CFO and CEO LGR and 60% of maximum for the CEO LGIM.
PSP is shown at threshold.
Maximum In addition to fixed remuneration, includes the potential value that each executive director could receive for maximum performance under the annual variable element and the PSP.
Other There is no adjustment made for share price or dividends.
76 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Notes to the Policy Table Area Commentary Shareholding To create alignment with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee also operates a shareholding guideline for guidelines executive directors.
Deferred share The deferred share element of the annual variable pay plan and the performance share plan shall be operated in accordance element with the rules of the respective plans.
Prior arrangements The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the policy set out above, or any previous policy came into effect or ii at a time when a previous policy, approved by shareholders, was in place provided the payment is in line with the terms of that policy or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the company.
Minor amendments The Remuneration Committee will follow any statutory requirements when operating the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the policy, for example, for regulatory or statutory requirements, exchange control or administrative purposes.
Legacy In line with our mobility policy and the commitments made to Mark Zinkula on relocation from the US prior to his arrangements appointment to the Board he remains in certain US benefits and has relocation assistance.
He would also receive repatriation assistance in the event of him returning to the US.
Performance The performance conditions for the AVP and the PSP have been chosen by the Committee to align with the groups strategic measures and priorities and are the key performance indicators in relation to the operation of the business.
targets The following table sets out why the performance measures that are used for the incentive arrangements were chosen: Plan Measure Rationale AVP Financial Measures To ensure company growth and return to shareholders Strategic and personal To safeguard the future of the company, by for instance, focusing on the measures development of future income streams and to ensure performance related to key metrics such as risk management, customer strategy and culture are taken into consideration.
PSP Earnings measure To incentivise growth in earnings Capital efficiency measures To ensure capital is used in a disciplined way and to steadily progress dividends Shareholder return measures To deliver a good return on equity for shareholders The performance measures for the AVP and the PSP are reviewed and set annually to ensure they remain appropriately stretching and aligned to the business and its strategy.
Targets for the AVP are set taking into account internal forecasts of performance, market expectations and prior year performance.
The targets for the AVP are set such that on-target normally equates to the levels forecast in the strategic plan for the year in question and maximum is set above that, at a level that is still within the companys risk appetite.
The PSP targets are set by the Committee taking into account a number of considerations including: what is felt to be achievable over a sustained period of time: internal forecasts of performance: any guidance provided to the market: market expectations: prior year performance: and the companys agreed risk appetite.
Malus clawback With effect from January 2014, the Committee has an agreed policy which applies to cash and deferred annual variable pay awards and long-term incentive awards made to executive directors.
The Committee may apply malus i. e. reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award vests, or delay such vesting, or impose additional vesting conditions in the event of financial mis-statement, personal misconduct, failure of risk management, reputational damage, factual error in calculating payment vesting, material downturn in performance or other exceptional circumstances identified by the Committee.
The Committee may also, in exceptional circumstances, claw-back share awards which have already been released to individuals, if it considers it appropriate to do so having regard to such factors as it deems relevant such as the likelihood of recovery, any loss suffered, and the link between the award and the event.
Clawback will normally only apply within four years of the end of the relevant performance period.
Key changes made The balance of the performance measures used for the AVP have been re-weighted such that no more than 70% will be to the policy based on financial performance, with the remainder based on non-financial performance.
This change is in response to regulatory guidance from the PRA and FCA in relation to the use of a balanced scorecard of measures in particular taking account of risk management.
when determining annual bonus awards.
Other minor changes have been made to ensure the Committee is able to operate the policy in the intended manner.
Discretion in For share awards, in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, special dividend or any other relation to future event that may affect the Companys share price, the number of shares subject to an award and or any exercise price operation of applicable to the award, may be adjusted.
The Committee may amend any performance conditions applicable to PSP the policy awards if any event occurs which causes the Committee to consider an amended performance condition would be more appropriate and materially less difficult to satisfy.
Remuneration The remuneration policy for other employees does not differ significantly from the executive remuneration policy.
Further policy for other details are provided on pages 80 and 93. employees DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 77 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Recruitment Remuneration General approach The Committee aims to attract, motivate and retain executive directors with the required expertise to develop and deliver the business strategy, while at the same time ensuring that the remuneration arrangements offered are in the best interests of both the company and its shareholders and paying no more than considered necessary to attract the right calibre of candidate to the role.
In determining the appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new executive director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to: The individuals skills and relevant experience Internal relativities Local market practice in the jurisdiction from which candidate was recruited Logistics and support if a relocation is required Appropriate market data The individuals existing remuneration package Where possible the Committee endeavours to align the remuneration arrangements of new executive directors with the remuneration outlined in the policy for other executive directors.
Any such awards will be within the maximum level of variable remuneration limit set out below.
Where an existing internal candidate is made an executive director, the Committee may continue to honour prior commitments made before joining the Board.
Maximum variable The maximum level of annual variable pay and long-term incentives which may be awarded to a new executive director will pay levels be in line with the policy table i. e. 475% of base salary.
This limit excludes buyout awards.
Buyout of The Committee recognises that, as a consequence of regulatory changes around the globe in the financial services sector, any existing long serving executives are likely to have accrued significant levels of deferred remuneration which may be remuneration lost on a transfer of employment.
Accordingly, to aid the recruitment of a new executive director, the Committee may make components awards to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, taking into consideration relevant or other factors including, but not limited to: arrangements Form of the award Any performance conditions attached to those awards The vesting profile of the awards and likelihood of vesting Relevant regulatory requirements and guidance in place in relation to buyout awards Buyout awards will typically reflect the terms and the value of the arrangements forgone.
Where possible the Committee will use existing share based plans to effect a buyout.
However, in the event these are not an appropriate vehicle, the Committee retains the discretion to use the Listing Rules exemption LR 9.4.
2 for the purpose of making an award to buyout remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Relocation Where a new executive director has to relocate to take up the appointment, either within the UK or from overseas, practical and mobility and or financial support may be given in relation to relocation or mobility in line with our internal policies.
This may include the cost of any tax that is incurred.
For appointments from overseas, home country benefits may continue to apply.
Relocation and mobility support may also apply to the recruitment of a non-executive director NED.
Shareholder The Committee believes that remuneration arrangements should be as transparent as possible.
Therefore the Committee transparency will make every effort to explain the rationale for the recruitment arrangements in the Directors remuneration report following the recruitment of a new executive director.
Recruitment of The Committee will normally align the remuneration arrangements for new non-executive directors with those outlined non-executive within the policy table.
directors 78 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Service contracts and termination and payments for loss of office When determining leaving arrangements for an executive director, the Committee takes into account any pre-established agreements, including the provisions of any incentive plans, typical market practice, statutory and contractual obligations, the performance and conduct of the individual and the commercial justification for any payments.
The following summarises our policy in relation to executive directors service contracts and payments in the event of loss of office: Notice period Standard notice policy is: and Termination 12 months notice from the company Payments 12 months notice from the executive director The current CFOs service contract may be terminated on 6 months notice by the company or the executive director Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or take a period of garden leave or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Payments in lieu of notice: Our policy for new appointments is that termination payments in lieu of notice would consist solely of base salary and the cost of providing benefits for the outstanding notice period.
Any statutory requirements will be observed.
Our standard practice is to include within executive directors contractual terms mitigation provisions as regards payments in lieu of notice.
The CEO LGIM may be paid his contracted benefits for three months following his effective date of termination of employment provided he is not dismissed for cause.
Expiry date All executive directors are subject to annual re-election.
The contracts for our executive directors are rolling service contracts.
Treatment of Rights to annual variable pay, deferred annual variable pay awards and performance share awards are governed by their outstanding respective plan rules.
incentive award Annual variable pay There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus in the year of cessation of employment.
However, for a good leaver, the Committee may determine that an executive director will receive a pro-rata bonus in respect of the period of employment during the year of cessation based on an assessment of group and personal performance.
Deferred annual variable pay awards In the event that a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested deferred annual variable pay award will normally be released at the normal time.
Where it considers it appropriate, for example in the circumstances of terminal illness, the Committee reserves the right to accelerate any payment due.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to circumstances such as death, disability, ill-health or injury, redundancy, retirement with company agreement, the individuals employing company business ceasing to be part of the group, or other circumstances at the Committees discretion.
For all other leavers outstanding unvested awards lapse.
Awards will generally vest early on a takeover of the company, merger or other corporate reorganisation.
Alternatively participants may be allowed or required to exchange their awards for new awards.
If there is a demerger, delisting or special dividend or other transaction which may affect the share price, the Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis as for a takeover.
Treatment of PSP awards outstanding In the event that a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested PSP award will normally unless the Committee incentive award determines otherwise be pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed on cessation and will vest based on performance to the end of the performance period.
Awards will usually be released at the normal time.
Where it considers it appropriate, for example in the case of terminal illness, the Committee reserves the right to accelerate any payment due.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, disability, ill-health or injury, redundancy, retirement with company agreement, the individuals employing company business ceasing to be part of the group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
Where an award vests early in these circumstances, the Committee will determine the level of vesting, having regard to the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied to the date of vesting subject to downwards discretion based on underlying performance and unless the Committee determines otherwise to the fact that the award is vesting early.
Other information The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office employment where the payments are made in good faith in the discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such obligation or by way of settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of the directors office employment, or for any fees for outplacement assistance and or Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office employment.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 79 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Non-executive directors NEDS Appointment Letters Appointment letters are currently for three years but all directors are subject to annual re-election.
Appointments may be terminated by either party without notice.
Date of initial Current letter of Current letter of NED appointment appointment start date appointment end date Sir John Kingman October 2016 24 October 2016 24 October 2021 Carolyn Bradley December 2014 8 December 2014 8 December 2017 Philip Broadley July 2016 8 July 2016 8 July 2019 Lesley Knox June 2016 1 June 2016 1 June 2019 Rudy Markham October 2006 26 May 2016 26 May 2017 Richard Meddings December 2014 1 December 2014 1 December 2017 Julia Wilson November 2011 9 December 2014 9 December 2017 The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration and policy for NEDS.
Approach to fees Operation Other items Fees for the chairman and non-executive Our NED fees policy is to pay: The Chairman and NEDs are not eligible directors are set at an appropriate level to participate in any benefit plans or the A base fee for membership of to reflect: AVP or the PSP.
The time commitment required to fulfil Expenses incurred in carrying out NED A committee attendance fee if the the role duties and any associated tax liability non-executive sits on two or more may be reimbursed or paid for directly The responsibilities and duties of the Board committees currently not by the company.
positions: and including the Nominations Committee.
Typical practice in the FTSE 100 and Additional committee chairmanship Additional benefits may be provided if amongst other financial institutions.
and SID fees to reflect the additional the Board feels this is justified such as responsibilities and time commitments tax advice if recruited from overseas, Fees for non-executive directors are reviewed of the role.
at regular intervals by the executive directors.
Fees for the Chairman are reviewed at regular The Chairman receives an inclusive fee NEDs are expected to hold the equivalent intervals by the Remuneration Committee.
of one years base fee in Legal & General No-one is involved in the discussion of their shares to be retained until the end of Additional fees for membership of own fee.
NEDs generally have a proportion a Committee or chairmanship or of their fees normally 50% paid in Fees are subject to the aggregate limit in membership of subsidiary boards Legal & General shares until this level the companys Articles of Association.
Any or other fixed fees such as for a is reached.
Once this level is reached, changes in this limit would be subject to particular project may be introduced they may take all their fee in cash.
if justified by time or commitment.
80 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Other considerations Statement of the consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company The general principles of the groups remuneration policy are broadly applied throughout the group and are designed to support recruitment, motivation and retention as well as to reward high performance in a framework of approved risk management.
We define core remuneration as base salary, annual bonus which is closely aligned to performance and other benefits, e. g. pension.
There is also the possibility to participate in the Performance Share Plan PSP for certain key employees.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for the executive directors, the Committee is presented with information for UK employees as this is the location of the groups head office and where the executive directors are normally based regarding base salary increases and anticipated spend under the groups annual variable pay plans.
This includes relevant background information that allows the Committee to work with management to ensure a consistency of approach throughout the company.
The Committee also has oversight over the grant of all PSP and LGIM LTIP awards across the company.
The company does not specifically invite employees to comment on the directors remuneration policy.
However, the annual employee survey includes general questions around pay and benefits.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee seeks to maintain an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the companys executive pay arrangements.
During early 2017, the Committee informed major shareholders of the proposals for the remuneration policy in order that shareholders could express their views on the proposals or enter into further discussions with the chair of the Committee on the proposed policy.
The Committee is grateful to shareholders for their feedback and will continue to acknowledge any feedback in reviewing our policy over the next 12 months.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 81 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual report on remuneration Single figure of remuneration executive directors audited Per the new remuneration reporting regulations, were required to include the value of long-term incentive awards vesting in respect of the financial year within the single figure table.
Historically, the performance share plan approved by shareholders in 2004 had a three-year performance period whereby total shareholder return performance was measured from the date of grant to the date of vesting.
As such, for the award made to executive directors in 2013, an award vested based on performance to May 2016.
This award is included within the single figure table in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
Following a change in the approach to the performance share plan as approved by shareholders in 2014, the performance measurement period was changed to reflect latest market practice so that it was measured over the three financial years of the performance period.
Awards are subject to a holding period of up to two years, extending the time horizon of the plan to five years.
The first award under this new plan was made in 2014 and vests based on performance to the end of the financial year 31 December 2016.
Awards will be released in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
By virtue of the performance period being aligned with the financial year, this PSP award has also been included in the single figure table in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
The single figure in respect of 2016, therefore, represents an anomaly, driven by requirements of the regulations, whereby two PSP awards are included due to having performance periods ending in 2016.
From next year, only one PSP award will be included in the single figure.
Grants made under the old plan with a performance period from April 2013 to April 2016, vesting in April 2016.
Grants made under the current plan with a performance period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016, vesting in three tranches in March 2017, 2018 and 2019.
For an accurate comparison of total remuneration between 2015 and 2016 only one PSP award should be considered for 2016 total remuneration.
15% of Mark Zinkulas salary and AVP is paid to him in US dollars at a US dollar to GB pound exchange rate of 1.6.
Restated from the 2015 report to include the value of the PSP award vesting in August 2015.
Nigel Wilsons 2015 total remuneration During 2015 two Performance Share Plan PSP awards vested for Nigel Wilson, one in May, which all the executive directors received, and a second in August, which was awarded to Nigel in recognition of his promotion to Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2012.
As disclosed in May 2016 the August PSP amounting to 781,000 in relation to 291,765 shares was incorrectly excluded from the single figure table in the 2015 report.
The figure above includes both PSP awards.
The PSP granted on 14 August 2012 vested at 100% on 24 August 2015 as Legal & Generals TSR performance exceeded the 80th percentile for both the FTSE 100 and bespoke comparator group.
% of award Percentage of Performance Comparator Legal & Generals Comparator group Comparator group Legal & Generals vesting against total award th Grant Date Period Group TSR Median rank 80 percentile notional rank comparator group vesting FTSE 100 49 97 19.9 97 8.8 50% 14 August 2012 Bespoke to comparator 14 August 2012 13 August 2015 group 138.0% 10.5 20 4.5 20 3.4 50% 100% 82 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Components of the single figure Salary audited Annual base salary as at Annual base salary effective Total base salary Name 1 January 2016 1 March 2016 paid in 2016 Nigel Wilson 860,000 886,000 881,667 Mark Gregory 575,000 590,000 587,500 Mark Zinkula 575,000 610,000 604,234 Benefits audited Benefits include the elements shown in the table below.
Discount SAYE International Total Car and PMI Dividends and matching shares allowance benefits Executive director 000 000 000 000 000 2016 Nigel Wilson 20 38 1 59 Mark Gregory 20 30 1 51 Mark Zinkula 30 29 226 285 2015 Nigel Wilson 20 51 1 72 Mark Gregory 20 36 1 57 Mark Zinkula 30 51 277 358 The international allowance for Mark Zinkula includes allowances for housing, schooling, flights and associated tax advice resulting from his relocation to the UK.
Pension audited Nigel Wilson and Mark Gregory receive a cash allowance of 15% of base salary.
Mark Zinkula receives a cash contribution of 15% of base salary in lieu of joining the UK pension plan.
He participates in the Legal & General America 401K plan and cash savings plan.
All cash allowances are subject to normal payroll deductions of income tax and National Insurance.
For defined benefit arrangement, of which Mark Gregory was a member, the value is based on the HMRC formula for assessing the annual and lifetime allowance limits 20 times the post inflation benefit for defined benefit provisions.
Cash Defined Defined Other overseas Total in lieu benefit contribution Pension pension Executive director 000 000 000 000 000 2016 Nigel Wilson 132 132 Mark Gregory 88 9 79 Mark Zinkula 91 6 97 2015 Nigel Wilson 128 128 Mark Gregory 86 4 90 Mark Zinkula 86 86 Further pension information audited Accrued DB Normal Additional value Age at pension at retirement of pension on Executive director 31 December 2016 31 Dec 2016 000 date early retirement Nigel Wilson 60 Age 65 Age 60 in DB plan and Mark Gregory 53 41 age 65 in DC plan Mark Zinkula 49 Age 65 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 83 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION 2016 annual variable pay AVP awards audited This reflects the total AVP awards to be paid in 2017 based on performance in the year ended 31 December 2016.
The value includes both the cash element and the portion deferred into shares 50% of the award.
The executive directors AVP awards in relation to performance during 2016 were measured against a basket of metrics and objectives.
For Nigel Wilson and Mark Gregory, they were weighted between group financial objectives 80% and other strategic personal objectives 20%.
For Mark Zinkula they were weighted between group financial objectives 40%, divisional objectives 40% and other strategic personal objectives 20%.
Group financial achievement For 2016, AVP pay-outs as a percentage of the maximum were: Nigel Wilson 83%, Mark Gregory 93%, and Mark Zinkula 78%.
The tables below illustrate performance against each of the measures.
Weightings as % of total AVP opportunity Achieved as a % of maximum Nigel Mark Mark Maximum Payout % Performance measure Wilson Gregory Zinkula Threshold Target 100% Actual of maximum Release from operations 10% 10% 5% 1,217m 1,246m 1,306m 1,256m 58% Net release from operations 15% 15% 7.5% 1,256m 1,304m 1,356m 1,411m 100% Operating profit 20% 20% 10% 1,455m 1,565m 1,624m 1,628m 100% Adjusted EPS 10% 10% 5% 18.58p 20.40p 21.53p 22.20p 100% Adjusted ROE 10% 10% 5% 17.7% 18.0% 19.7% 19.6% 97% Solvency II surplus emerging 15% 15% 7.5% 1,050m 1,150m 1,310m 1,252m 82% The Solvency II surplus emerging metric was a new performance measure for 2016 and it is still evolving.
For 2016, it has been defined as the total surplus movement before dividend payments in the year removing items which have been deemed to be outside of management control, for example the impact of investment market movements.
Divisional performance achievement Divisional objectives represented a maximum 40% of the total AVP opportunity for Mark Zinkula.
For the LGIM division Mark has three key measures LGIM profit before tax, cost income ratio, and the annualised revenue for our LGIM international business.
Divisional and personal strategic objectives are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
These actual targets are not formally disclosed in the annual report and will not be disclosed this year or in a future report.
Performance commentary is given in the table below.
Payout Executive Director Divisional Measures Key achievements in the year % of maximum Key highlights for 2016 include: Operating profit of 366m, 3% higher than 2015, while maintaining LGIM a cost: income ratio below 50% Key measures include 64% Mark Zinkula LGIM Operating Profit, Net inflows of 25.8bn with positive flows in all business lines and cost income ratio, net Geographic regions despite challenging market conditions, revenues non UK including strong international net inflows from US, Europe, the Gulf and Asia 84 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Strategic personal performance achievement Personal objectives represented a maximum 20% of total AVP opportunity.
A performance commentary is given in the table below.
Payout % of Executive director Overview Key achievements in the year maximum For 2016, Nigels objectives Successful execution of the strategic disposal of non-core assets including were: Strategic development Cofunds, Legal & General Netherlands and Legal & General Germany and of the business including completion of the transfer of Suffolk Life disposal of non-core Effective management of the Solvency II balance sheet through a volatile year businesses, embedding and successful delivery of capital efficient pension buyouts Solvency II requirements into Strong strategic development particularly within the Legal & General Capital and Nigel Wilson the business, engagement 75% Legal & General Retirement businesses with shareholders and championing diversity within A commitment to promoting diversity within the group and particular progress the group, ensuring that in appointing women into senior leadership roles and developing a diverse talent plans were in place to meet pool for future succession within the business gender diversity targets for senior management Marks objectives included Agreement of internal model and matching adjustments with the PRA embedding Solvency II Delivery of all regulatory reporting on time and to a high standard requirements in the business, Disposal of a number non-core business including Legal & General Netherlands disposal of non-core and Cofunds Mark Gregory businesses, shareholder 100% engagement and providing Engaged extensively with shareholders leadership on diversity and Ensured action plans were in place with regard to gender diversity within plans for the achievement of Group Finance gender diversity targets Marks objectives focused Continued growth of defined benefit DB with strong inflows to active on fund performance, LDI strategies growing the defined Increase in assets in the defined contribution DC business contribution and defined Strengthened product offering in the retail business benefit businesses, Mark Zinkula 70% international growth of Continued good progress expanding LGIMs business internationally, the LGIM business, with positive net flows and key new client wins in all regions implementation of the Extensive support of the LGR business and LGC business diversity strategy and talent Taken a leading in role in promoting diversity in LGIM and building a plan development within LGIM for ensuring a diverse talent pool for senior roles within the business Risk consideration The Committee reviewed a comprehensive report from the chief risk officer to ascertain that the executive directors objectives had been fulfilled within the risk appetite of the group.
In addition, the Committee received feedback from the Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance function and from the Group Legal Counsel that there were no material issues to consider around regulatory breaches, customer outcomes or litigation that would prevent payment of any AVP award or trigger any malus.
The Committee was satisfied that the AVP awards should be paid.
For 2015, AVP payouts as a percentage of the maximum were: Nigel Wilson 86%: Mark Gregory 84% and Mark Zinkula 91%.
Deferral policy In line with our policy, 50% of all 2016 AVP awards were deferred for three years into nil cost options, subject to continued employment and clawback malus provisions.
Executive director Cash bonus Deferred bonus Total bonus Nigel Wilson 583,567 583,567 1,167,134 Mark Gregory 410,731 410,731 821,461 Mark Zinkula 415,873 415,873 831,746 Performance share plan PSP awards Details of how the 2013 PSP award vested audited The 2013 PSP award vested at 87.2% in May 2016 as Legal & Generals TSR exceeded the 80th percentile of the FTSE 100 and was between the 50th and 80th percentile of the bespoke comparator group.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 85 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION In line with policy, the Committee carefully reviewed the companys underlying performance over the performance period.
The review included considerations of partnerships entered into and maintained, cost management, capital management and risk.
The Committee felt the company performance had been strong over the period and saw no reason not to allow the PSP to vest in accordance with the TSR out-turn.
The results are shown below: Comparator % of award Comparator group vesting against Percentage Performance Comparator Legal & Generals group 80th percentile Legal & Generals comparator of total Grant date period group TSR median rank TSR performance notional rank group award vesting FTSE 100 48 95 19.5 95 18.4 50.0% 17 April 2013 17 April 2013 to 29 April 58.0% 87.2% Bespoke comparator 11 21 4.7 21 6.8 37.2% 2016 group The values included in the single figure table are calculated by multiplying the number of shares vesting on 29 April 2016 by the share price on 29 April 2016 of 2.231.
For 2015, 100% of the maximum PSP awards granted to the executives in 2012 vested.
Executive director Shares granted in 2013 Shares vesting in April 2016 Value of shares on vesting Nigel Wilson 889,521 775,662 1,730,502 Mark Gregory 547,055 477,032 1,064,258 Mark Zinkula 547,055 477,032 1,064,258 Details of how the 2014 PSP award vested audited The 2014 PSP award vested at 65.8% in March 2017 based on a combination of TSR 50% and financial performance 50% over the three-year performance period ending 31 December 2016.
In line with policy, the Committee carefully reviewed the companys underlying performance over the performance period.
The review included considerations of capital management, risk, cost management and partnerships entered into and maintained.
The Committee felt the company performance had been strong over the period and saw no reason not to allow the PSP to vest in accordance with the TSR and financial performance out-turn.
The results are shown below: Comparator % of award Comparator group vesting against Percentage Performance Comparator Legal & Generals group 80th percentile Legal & Generals comparator of element Grant date period group TSR median rank TSR performance notional rank group vesting FTSE 100 47.5 94 19 94 31.4 63.1% 1 Jan 2014 to 11 June 2014 31 December 26.6% 31.6% Bespoke comparator 13.5 26 6 26 20.2 0% 2016 group Performance condition Performance targets Actual performance Percentage of element vesting EPS growth % p. a. subject to performance matrix 11.8% DPS growth % p. a. subject to performance matrix 15.6% 100% ROE underpin % p. a.
12% p. a. underpin 18.2% The figures reported for the 2014 PSP, with a performance period ending 31 December 2016, reflects the market value of the awards that will vest in March 2017.
The share price at the date of vesting was not known at the date of publication of this report and therefore the number of shares that will vest has been multiplied by the average share price over the quarter ending 31 December 2016 2,277.
Executive director Shares granted in 2014 Shares vesting in March 2017 Value of shares on vesting Nigel Wilson 878,245 577,885 1,315,899 Mark Gregory 599,777 394,653 898,662 Mark Zinkula 599,777 394,653 898,662 86 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Financial performance condition 50% of the 2014 award 50% of the award vested based on performance against the following matrix of earnings per share and dividends per share growth, subject to achieving a return on equity underpin whereby return on equity must be at least 12% over the performance period.
Dividends per share growth % p. a.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited The following table sets out details of awards made under the 2014 PSP in 2016.
% of award % of award Basis of award vesting for vesting for % of salary threshold maximum Performance Type of award and face value performance performance holding period 1 January 2016 to 250% of salary 31 December 2018.
Nigel Wilson Nil-cost options 2,215,000 15% 100% Awards are also subject to a holding period, such that 0% of salary awards are released Mark Gregory Nil-cost options 0 15% 100% in equal tranches in years 3, 4 and 5 from the grant date.
T he number of shares awarded is calculated based on the average share price for the five days preceding the grant which was 2,422.
Awards were also made during the year under the share bonus plan in respect of performance for 2015, in line with our policy 50% of all 2015 AVP awards were deferred into shares for three years, subject to malus provisions.
The amounts deferred in respect of the 2016 bonus are set out in the deferral policy section.
Performance conditions for PSP awards granted in 2016 audited Financial performance condition 50% of the 2016 award 50% of the award will vest based on the same financial performance conditions that applied to the 2014 PSP awards as set out above.
TSR performance condition 50% of the 2016 award 25% of the award will vest based on Legal & Generals TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100.
The remaining 25% of the award will vest based on Legal & Generals TSR performance against a bespoke group of insurers comprising the insurance constituents in the FTSEurofirst 300 plus any FTSE 350 Life Insurance companies not in the FTSEurofirst 300 and five US firms including Metlife, Prudential Financial, Ameriprise Financial, Principal Financial and Lincoln National.
The vesting schedule of the TSR performance conditions is as follows: % of award that vests Below median 0% Median threshold vesting 15% Between median and the 80th percentile 15% 100% 80th percentile and above 100% At the end of the three-year performance period, the Committee will critically assess whether the formulaic vesting outcome produced by the matrix is justified.
To do this, the Committee will look at a number of factors including: whether the result is reflective of underlying performance and has been achieved within the companys agreed risk appetite: the quality of earnings and the nature of any changes in leverage: key assumptions: dividend cover and behaviours, etc.
If such considerations mean that the formulaic outcome of the vesting schedule is not felt to be justified, then the Committee can exercise downwards discretion.
Awards were also made during the year under the Share Bonus Plan in respect of performance for 2015, in line with our policy 50% of all 2015 AVP awards were deferred into shares for three years.
Further details of awards are provided on page 97.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 87 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding guidelines audited The Group Chief Executive is expected to build a shareholding of 300% of base salary and the other executive directors 200% of base salary.
The table below shows shareholding levels as at 31 December 2016.
Shares sold Actual share New guidelines on or acquired ownership as % share ownership during the period of 2016 base salary: as a % of Shares owned at Shares owned at 1 January 2017 and 1 2 vested shares base salary Guideline met 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 28 February 2017 Nigel Wilson 1,076% 300% Yes 3,294,171 3,949,227 103 Mark Gregory 1,103% 200% Yes 2,316,917 2,628,161 123 2 Mark Zinkula 354% 200% Yes 588,550 894,312 0 1.
Closing share price as at 30 December 2016: 2.476.
Mark Zinkula joined the Board on 1 September 2012.
Notes Shares used for the above calculation exclude those with performance conditions, any unexercised options, those shares subject to a period of deferral and any shares held in a private trust where the executive director is not a trustee.
They include vested shares where the executive director has beneficial ownership, shares independently acquired in the market and those held by a spouse or civil partner or dependent child under the age of 18 years.
Although the share ownership guidelines are not contractually binding, executive directors are normally expected to retain any after tax vested share awards until the guideline is met.
The Committee retains the discretion to withhold future grants under the PSP if executives are not making satisfactory progress against the guidelines.
Once shareholding requirements have been met, executive directors may sell surplus shares if they wish.
The Committee has discretion to allow executive directors to sell shares prior to the shareholding requirements being met if there are extenuating circumstances for example, changes to personal circumstances.
Share options exercised during 2016 audited The following table shows all share options exercised by the executive directors during 2016.
Share price at date of exercise Gain Executive director Type of option Date of grant Shares exercised Exercise date Nigel Wilson PSP nil cost 14 August 2012 291,765 14 January 2016 2.452 715,408 Nigel Wilson PSP nil cost 17 April 2013 775,662 29 April 2016 2.231 1,730,502 Mark Gregory PSP nil cost 17 April 2013 477,032 29 April 2016 2.231 1,064,258 Mark Zinkula PSP nil cost 17 April 2013 477,032 29 April 2016 2.231 1,064,258 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 Salary The table below sets out any increases to base salaries that will be effective 1 March 2016.
Annual base salary as at Annual base salary effective Name 31 December 2016 1 March 2016 % increase Nigel Wilson 886,000 909,000 2.6% Jeff Davies 500,000 Mark Zinkula 610,000 625,500 2.5% Kerrigan Proctor 475,000 Base salary increases are in line with the average salary increment across the group.
88 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Benefits for 2017 Benefits for 2017 to be in line with policy.
Annual variable pay potential AVP 2017 In line with our policy, for 2017 the target and maximum AVP opportunities for our executive directors will be: Target opportunity % of salary Maximum opportunity % of salary Nigel Wilson 75% 150% Jeff Davies 75% 150% Mark Zinkula 105% 175% Kerrigan Procter 87.5% 175% Performance will be based on a combination of group and or Divisional financial performance targets as well as strategic including customer and employee measures and personal measures.
The majority of the targets will be financial.
Actual targets have not been disclosed due to commercial sensitivity.
Group financial targets will be disclosed in the 2017 annual report.
Performance share plan PSP 2017 For 2017, Nigel Wilson, Jeff Davies, Mark Zinkula and Kerrigan Procter will be granted an award over nil-cost options with a face value of 250% of base salary.
Having considered the business plan over the coming three years and market expectations of performance, given the level of stretch within the financial and TSR performance conditions used for the 2015 award, the Committee considered it appropriate to use the same performance conditions for the 2016 award.
See Performance conditions for PSP awards granted in 2016 for further details.
Non-executive directors remuneration 2016 Chairmans fees As first announced on 13 November 2015, John Stewart, former Group Chairman, retired from the Board on 1 June 2016.
He was paid an annual base fee of 340,000 to the date of his retirement.
This base fee had remained unchanged since 2011.
Sir John Kingman was appointed Group Chairman with effect from 24 October 2016 on an annual base fee of 450,000.
The base fee for the new Chairman was set taking into account recognising the increased time commitment and demand of the role.
From 1 June 2016 to 24 October 2016, Rudy Markham acted as Interim Chairman, for which he received an acting-up allowance.
During this period, he was paid an acting-up allowance of 100,000, in addition to the fees paid in respect of his other Board duties.
Non-executive directors fees The fees for non-executive directors were reviewed during 2016.
The base fee was increased as set out below with effect from 1 October 2016 to reflect the increased time commitment of the role.
The additional fee payable to the Senior Independent Director was also increased with effect from 26 May 2016 on the appointment of Julia Wilson.
The revised fees remain subject to the aggregate limit in the companys Articles of Association.
The current limit for fees paid to non-executive directors is 1,500,000 p. a.
The revised fees are shown below: Previous fee Current fee Annual fees Base fee 65,000 75,000 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 20,000 30,000 Committee Chairmanship fees Audit, Remuneration and Group Risk Committees 30,000 30,000 Attendance fee payable if the non-executive sits on two or more Board committees 10,000 10,000 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 89 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION The table below shows the actual fees paid to our non-executive directors in 2016 and 2015.
Total Total Non-Executive Fees Benefits remuneration Fees Benefits remuneration Director for 2016 for 2016 for 2016 for 2015 for 2015 for 2015 Sir John Kingman Chairman N CG 69,074 69,074 Carolyn Bradley N R 67,500 171 67,671 65,000 65,000 Philip Broadley A N Ri 52,917 52,917 Lesley Knox A N R 46,023 46,023 Rudy Markham N R Ri 175,417 175,417 127,138 127,138 Richard Meddings A CG N R Ri 107,500 56 107,556 96,932 373 97,305 Julia Wilson A CG N Ri 117,955 1,155 119,109 105,000 105,000 Previous NEDs John Stewart Chairman 141,667 720 142,386 340,000 340,000 Stuart Popham N R Ri 77,500 77,500 75,000 75,000 Olaf Swantee A N 27,083 27,083 65,000 65,000 Liz Zlatkus A N Ri 50,000 9,305 59,305 75,000 8,720 83,720 Key: NED committee membership: A Audit N Nominations R Remuneration Ri Risk CG Corporate Governance Shareholding requirements audited NEDs are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to one times base fee.
The table below shows their shareholding as at 2 January 2017, taking into account share purchases in relation to December 2016 fees, purchased on 2 January 2017.
Shares purchased from Shareholding as at Holding as a % of Met criteria of 1 x 2 January 2017 to Name 2 January 2017 base fee base fee 28 February 2017 Sir John Kingman 91,069 50% On-target 3,595 Carolyn Bradley 15,642 52% On-target 1,470 Philip Broadley 35,400 117% Yes Lesley Knox 77,600 256% Yes Richard Meddings 23,647 78% On-target 2,262 Rudy Markham 294,987 974% Yes 2,873 Julia Wilson 40,398 133% Yes Remuneration Committee The table below shows the members and attendees of the Remuneration Committee during 2016.
Committee Members, attendees and advice Meetings in 2016 During 2016, the Committee met seven times and in addition had ongoing dialogue via email or telephone discussion.
An outline of the Committee undertakings during 2016 are shown in the table on the following page.
Regular meetings were held to review and discuss AVP awards in relation to performance in 2016, base salary adjustments for 2017 and budgets for the group 2017 pay review.
The Committee also met a number of times to discuss the approach to executive remuneration with effect from 2017 and the scope of any review that may be undertaken in 2017.
Members: during 2016 the Remuneration Committee was made up of the following NEDs: Name Number of Remuneration Committee meetings during 2016 Lesley Knox appointed Chair on 1 October 2016 4 4 Stuart Popham 5 7 Rudy Markham stepped down as Chair on 30 September 2016 7 7 Richard Meddings 6 7 Carolyn Bradley 7 7 90 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Committee undertakings Quarter Governance Performance Review implementation Regulatory of remuneration policy First Review of report Approved 2015 16 Approval of Solvency Update on EBA on activities of the annual pay review II remuneration policy remuneration Group Reward awards and executive guidelines in Approved long-term Steering Committee pay awards relation to CRD IV incentive awards for Reviewed and 2016 approved the performance matrix for 2016 performance share plan PSP Approved 2016 measures and targets for executive teams Third Reviewed annual Financial update and Review of proposals Review of code staff general meeting indicative annual for amendments and Solvency II season and variable pay update to executive identified staff lists shareholder voting.
for executive teams remuneration policy Approved amendments to group wide AVP deferral policy Fourth Reviewed policy and Review of base pay Approval of Approved approach for risk and variable pay proposals for remuneration adjustment of AVP budget proposals amendments policy statements awards in line with for the 2016 17 to executive for PRA and FCA Solvency II guidelines pay review remuneration policy Initial review of performance measures for AVP and LTP awards in respect of 2017 At the invitation of the Remuneration Committee, the Group Chairman attends Committee meetings.
Where appropriate, the Group Chief Executive, Nigel Wilson: and the Group HR Director: Head of Executive Compensation: Director of Group Finance: and Group Chief Risk Officer also attend meetings.
No person is present during any discussion relating to his or her own remuneration.
At the invitation of the Remuneration Committee, a representative from Deloitte LLP also attends Committee meetings.
During 2016, Deloitte principally advised the Committee on external developments affecting remuneration as well as specific matters raised by the Remuneration Committee.
Deloitte were appointed by the Committee.
It is the view of the Committee that the Deloitte LLP engagement team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee are independent.
Deloitte are signatories to the remuneration consultants group code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The total fees paid to Deloitte in relation to Remuneration Committee work during 2016 were 144,250 excluding VAT.
While fee estimates are required for bespoke pieces of work, fees are generally charged based on time with hourly rates in line with the level of expertise and seniority of the adviser concerned.
During the year, Deloitte also provided the company with international tax advice, other consulting services and financial advisory services.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
The remit of the Committee includes the remuneration strategy and policy framework for the whole company as well as the executive directors.
The Committee particularly focuses on: Determining the individual remuneration for executive directors and for other designated individuals or for those who are discharging a head of control function role Undertaking direct oversight on the remuneration of other high earners in the group Oversight of the remuneration of Code staff and employees in the control and oversight functions ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 91 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Considering risk The Reward Steering Committee RSC and the Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance Function make a key contribution to the process of designing reward structures and evaluating whether achievement of objectives and any payment from plans have taken into account the overall risk profile of the company.
Reward steering committee RSC Reporting to the Remuneration Committee, the RSC helps set the framework within which our incentive arrangements are normally reviewed and implemented, with a view to supporting business strategy, whilst acting within the groups risk appetite.
The members of the RSC include group and business HR directors, reward and performance director, the group director of regulatory risk and compliance, the regulatory risk director, and the chief compliance Officer, LGIM.
Where a business unit tables a proposal for consideration, the relevant business manager is required to attend the RSC meeting to explain the background and to answer all questions and challenges from the RSC.
Group regulatory risk and compliance function The Remuneration Committee also works closely with the group regulatory risk and compliance function with respect to remuneration proposals.
In particular, the function reports to the Committee on an annual basis on whether any risks have been taken outside of pre-agreed parameters, there have been regulatory breaches, or they are aware of any other considerations that may lead the Committee to consider whether it should impact the payment of bonuses to staff including in particular the executive directors and code staff.
The CRO also specifically looks at the overall risk profile of the company and whether executive directors have achieved objectives within the companys accepted risk appetite.
The CRO also reviews the executive directors objectives for the forthcoming year to ensure they are in line with the risk parameters.
With the implementation of a new Solvency II remuneration policy in 2016 the scope of the CRO report has been extended to consider whether there are any risk considerations which may warrant adjustments to the overall level of corporate annual variable pay awards.
Engagement with shareholders The Committee seeks to maintain an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the companys executive pay arrangements.
During early 2014, the Remuneration Committee sought the views of the groups major shareholders on the proposed changes to executive remuneration arrangements for 2014 onwards.
Following the strong support received from shareholders at both individual meetings and at the AGM, the Committee considered it appropriate to enact the proposed changes to the policy during 2014.
As set out in the Chairmans statement, during 2016 the Committee reviewed the current policy in place.
Overall, the current policy inclusive of the minor changes we have proposed was considered appropriate, and as such is presented for approval at the 2017 AGM.
During the course of 2017, however, the Committee intends to undertake a detailed review of the policy to ensure it remains appropriate for the company.
Statement of voting at the annual general meeting AGM 2015 The table below shows the voting outcomes on the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM and Directors Remuneration Report at the last AGM in May 2016.
Item For % Against Abstain Number 97.62% 2.38% Remuneration policy 4,154,433,976 101,243,790 21,675,250 97.28% 2.72% 2015 remuneration report 4,188,900,286 117,198,364 59,869,488 92 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration for employees below board General remuneration policy The groups remuneration policy is broadly consistent across the group and, in line with our remuneration principles, is designed to reward, motivate and retain high performers in line with the risk appetite of the group.
Remuneration is considered within the overall context of the groups sector and the markets in which the divisions operate.
The policy for the majority of employees continues to be to pay around the relevant mid-market range with a competitive package designed to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders, and with an appropriate proportion of total remuneration dependent upon performance.
We define core remuneration as base salary, annual bonus and other benefits such as pension.
Key employees are also eligible to participate in the performance share plan PSP.
Summary of the remuneration structure for employees below Board Element Policy Base salary We aim to attract and retain key employees by paying salaries which deliver competitive total remuneration.
Factors taken into account when determining salaries include: The nature, size and scope of the role The knowledge, skills and experience of the individual Individual and overall business performance Pay and conditions elsewhere in the group Appropriate external market data For 2017, base salary budgets have been set on average at 2.6% for all employees below Board, including LGIM.
However, this does not mean a flat increase at this level for everyone.
Annual bonus The majority of employees participate in a discretionary bonus plan, unless an alternative plan applies based on role.
An employee will be considered for a discretionary bonus award based on achievement against objectives, conduct and behaviours, the role performed during that year and internal relativities.
The group operates bespoke bonus plans where business appropriate.
However, the Remuneration Committee has ultimate discretion over all bonus plans.
Bonuses above a certain threshold are subject to deferral with the deferral amount increasing with the size of the bonus.
Deferred awards are normally held in shares for three years.
The company reserves the right to adjust deferral levels for code staff as deemed appropriate.
Performance share Participation in the PSP is offered to a small number of senior executives each year in recognition of the strategic and plan PSP influential role that they hold in terms of driving company performance, as well as their individual contribution.
This includes employees in LGIM whose roles span different business divisions and whose participation encourages synergy and teamwork across the group.
Participation in the plan for one year does not guarantee participation in future years.
PSP awards will be made to under 80 employees during 2017.
Where appropriate, grants under the PSP may also be made for new employees who join the company during the year in key roles.
Other share The company operates a Share Bonus Plan SBP which provides the vehicle for deferral of annual bonuses in the majority plans and long of cases and also allows for a limited number of awards of shares to high potential individuals and those with critical skills.
term incentives In addition, the company operates a cash based long-term incentive plan for LGIM LGIM LTIP based on the financial performance of the division.
Participation in the LGIM LTIP is limited to senior managers within the division.
Pension All employees are given the opportunity to participate in a group pension scheme.
Shareholding The leadership group is asked to build up a voluntary shareholding of 50% of base salary.
requirements ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 93 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual equal pay audit The group seeks to ensure that our pay policies and practices are free from unfair bias.
Part of the pay review process is an annual equal pay audit that reviews pay and bonus decisions by gender, ethnicity, age and full-time versus part-time working.
In addition, it considers the pay of the control function departments risk, compliance and internal audit as well as the oversight departments of finance and human resources and looks at decisions for employees who report directly to the business versus those who report to the function head.
The review extends to all employees, including those in LGIM.
Dilution limits The companys all-employee plans and the now-closed ESOS operate within the ABIs dilution limit of 5% of issued capital in ten years for executive schemes and all its plans will operate within the 10% of issued capital in ten years limit for all schemes.
As at 31 December 2016, the company had 4.93% of share capital available under the 5% in 10 years limit and 9.68% of share capital under the 10% in 10 years limit.
As at 31 December 2016, 18,074,622 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards of 35,010,160 shares for the PSP and SBP.
Other information relating to directors remuneration External appointments The company considers that certain external appointments can help to broaden the experience and contribution to the Board of the executive directors.
Any such appointments are subject to annual agreement by the group and must not be with competing companies.
Subject to the groups agreement, any fees may be retained by the individual.
However, they received no fees for the below appointments.
External appointments held in 2016 are shown below: Role and organisation Fees Nigel Wilson n a Nil Mark Gregory Director of Westdown Park Management Company Limited Nil Mark Zinkula Currently on the board of the Investment Association Nil 94 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Total shareholder return TSR As at 31 December 2016 The chart shows the value, as at 31 December 2016, of 100 500 investment in Legal & General shares on 31 December 2008, Legal & General compared to 100 invested in the FTSE 100 on the same date.
450 The other points plotted are the values at the intervening 400 financial year-ends.
The FTSE 100 Index was chosen as the 350 company is a member of this index.
300 250 FTSE 100 200 150 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FTSE 100 Legal & General Chief executive historic remuneration information The table below shows the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive in place at the time over the same period.
Tim Breedon retired as Group Chief Executive on 30 June 2012 and Nigel Wilson took over from that date having been the chief financial officer.
However, no PSP is shown in the figure for Nigel Wilson as, while he received the PSP, it vested during the time he was CFO.
The PSP figure that vested for Tim Breedon is shown in his figure as it vested during the time he was Group Chief Executive.
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Group Chief Executive 2016 over 2015 Change to base salary % Change to benefits % Change in AVP % Group Chief Executive 3.32% -17.96% -0.81% Comparator group 2.65% 2.65% 11.11% As with last year we have chosen the whole UK employee population as the comparator group.
This group has been chosen because it includes a wider cross section of the groups employees.
The increase in benefits for the employee comparator group relates to salary increases.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 95 GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Pay Ratios Pay Ratios CEO vs All UK Employees The tables below show the ratio of the chief executives remuneration with the median remuneration for all employees.
2016 2015 Base Salary 28 28 The tables show the ratio considering two measures for the Total Remuneration Single Figure 94 142 chief executives remuneration: Base Salary Total remuneration as reported in the single figure We have looked at the base salary ratio as the potential level ofvariable remuneration is influenced by base salary levels.
As we have explained earlier in the report the single figure for the CEO for 2016 includes an anomaly in that we are required to include the value of both the 2013 PSP award which vested in April 2016 and the value of the 2014 PSP award for which the performance period ends on 31 December 2016 and which will vest in March 2017.
In order to provide a more consistent basis for year on year comparison the total remuneration figure for the CEO used to calculate the pay ratio figure is based on including only the value of the 2014 PSP award.
For all employees the median remuneration is made up of base salary, pension, benefits, and annual and long-term variable pay.
We are mindful that to date, there has been no guidance published on the methodology to be used for the calculation of the pay ratio.
As additional guidance may be provided, we may be required to change the approach to calculating the pay ratio in future years.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 1,400 The chart opposite shows the relative importance of spend on pay compared to shareholder dividends and profit for the year.
16% Increase 1,200 Retained profit has been shown because it is a KPI of the business.
Noshare buy backs were made in 2015 or 2016.
1,000 7% Increase 800 2% Decrease 600 400 21% Increase 200 0 Dividends Retained profit Tax Expenditure on pay 2015 2016 96 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE | DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Payments for loss of office audited As indicated earlier in the report, Mark Gregory will stand down from the Board once Jeff Davies takes on the CFO role on 9 March 2017.
He will remain employed until 31 August 2017 and will continue to receive salary, benefits and pension at his current level.
No annual variable pay or PSP awards will be made to Mark during 2017 or in respect of performance in 2017.
On retirement, Mark will be treated as a good leaver and in line with the approved policy his outstanding share bonus plan award will vest at the normal time and his 2015 PSP award will be pro-rated for service from the start of the performance period to cessation and will vest based on performance to the end of the performance period.
Payments to past directors John Pollock audited As disclosed in the 2015 annual report John Pollock had a maximum of 282,924 shares available to vest from the 2014 PSP award.
As indicated on page 86 the 2014 PSP award vested at 65.8% based on performance.
Total shareholding of executive directors audited Total vested and Shares sold or acquired during the period unvested shares 1 January 2017 and 28 February 2017 excludes any shares with Subject to Owned outright Subject to deferral performance performance Own outright Subject to deferral Type vested shares holding period conditions conditions vested shares holding period Nigel Wilson Shares 3,938,323 578,648 4,516,971 0 0 0 ESP 10,904 3,014 13,918 0 103 57 Options 0 0 0 2,547,701 0 0 Mark Gregory Shares 2,596,817 377,329 2,974,146 0 0 0 ESP 31,344 6,211 37,555 0 123 57 Options 0 9,911 9,911 1,104,623 0 0 Mark Zinkula Shares 894,312 458,784 1,353,096 0 0 0 ESP 0 0 0 0 0 0 Options 0 0 0 1,734,163 0 0 Information in relation to other outstanding awards audited Performance share plan PSP For information, other outstanding PSP awards are shown below.
2015 awards were granted under the new PSP.
% of base Face value Share price Max no.
salary 000 at award of shares Grant date 14 April 2015 Nigel Wilson 250% 2,150 2.8474 755,074 Mark Gregory 250% 1,438 2.8474 504,846 Mark Zinkula 250% 1,438 2.8474 504,846 Outstanding share bonus plan SBP awards The table below shows the shares held under the SBP and those that were awarded or vested during 2016.
For Mark Zinkula, these include shares awarded when he was appointed as CEO LGIM and prior to him joining the Board.
The shares awarded in 2016 relate to deferred AVP in relation to the 2015 performance year.
The share price used to calculate the awards is the average of the three days preceding grant.
Awards Awards Face value Awards Awards outstanding at granted Grant at grant vesting outstanding at Grant date 1 January 2016 in 2016 price price in 2016 31 December 2016 Nigel Wilson 514,876 228,841 2.431 556,313 165,069 578,648 Mark Gregory 333,441 148,835 2.431 361,819 104,947 377,329 Mark Zinkula 373,888 188,611 2.431 458,514 103,715 458,784 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Taking financial education to schools Pen y Dre School in Merthyr Tydfil is Contents Our Everyday Money financial a Business Class Partner where we Contents page 99 education programme has helped help pupils through our Everyday scholars in seven schools in England Money financial education scheme Group Consolidated Financial Statements 100 and Wales learn about the world and we participate in the Open Additional financial information 188 of money.
Books reading programme, where Company Financial Statements 221 Year 10 pupils work with Year 7 pupils, The Everyday Money programme to help improve their reading skills.
aims to understand young peoples attitudes to money and personal finance, supports the financial education curriculum and helps pupils become money confident.
WATCH THE VIDEO See how we work with local communities in South Wales.
com media-centre LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 99
