Governance Directors' remuneration report STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board and as Chair of the Groups Remuneration The Committees focus goes beyond Committee, I have pleasure in presenting the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
I am executive pay to ensure that the interests very grateful for the continued support and engagement we have of all colleagues and shareholders are had with shareholders and their representative bodies, especially during consultations on the outcomes of the remuneration review considered fairly and consistently which I outlined in last years statement and which was a key priority for 2016.
Outcomes of the remuneration review KEY MESSAGES The Committee conducted a full review of the Groups Remuneration review concluded in 2016, resulting in revised remuneration arrangements in 2016.
The main focus of this review Reward Principles and variable remuneration design aligned was to ensure the remuneration arrangements support our purpose to the Groups strategic priorities.
of helping Britain prosper and align to the Groups aim of becoming the best bank for customers whilst delivering superior and Strong financial performance overall and further progress sustainable returns for shareholders.
With this in mind, the against strategic priorities, supporting bonus outcome of Committee simplified and updated the Reward Principles that 392.9million.
This included a 19 per cent downward apply across the Group to ensure they support the strategic collective adjustment and equates to 4.8 per cent of priorities, as set out below: pre-bonus underlying profit.
Executive Director 2016 bonus awards approximately Strategic priorities Reward principle 77percent of maximum.
Executive Director single figure remuneration outcomes Creating the best Customer alignment approximately 35 per cent lower than 2015, with 2014 customer experience Long-Term Incentive Plan awards vesting at 55 per cent ofmaximum.
Consistent 2 per cent base salary budget applied to all Becoming simpler and Simple, affordable and colleagues, including Executive Directors.
more efficient motivating To build a long-term ownership culture, all colleagues will, forthe first time, receive an award of shares under the new Group Ownership Share Plan.
Delivering sustainable Shareholder alignment growth Competitive, performanceBuilding the best team driven and fair Further detail is set out in the Summary of the remuneration review'.
There are no significant changes to the remuneration policy for Executive Directors that is being put to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM, and the maximum opportunity for both the short-term and long-term elements of variable remuneration will remain the same.
84 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The gross bonus that results from underlying profit modifiers and Fair reward for colleagues Balanced Scorecard performance is 484.1 million.
In reaching the The Committees focus goes beyond executive pay.
I have engaged final decision on the 2016 bonus outcome, the Committee considered with the Groups recognised unions, and I am keen to ensure that the conduct-related provisions, including an additional provision the interests of all colleagues are considered in the Committees for PPI in 2016.
This led to a downward adjustment of 19 per cent deliberations.
We are mindful of the relationship between pay for resulting in a final bonus outcome for 2016 of 392.9 million.
This executives and more junior colleagues, and to that end have sought is an increase of 11 per cent compared to 2015. to ensure consistency of pay outcomes with a salary budget of 2percent applied across the whole Group.
In order to ensure that The Groups bonus outcome is amongst the lowest of large UK banks the Committees approach to remuneration aligns to Group and at 4.8 per cent of pre-bonus underlying profit, significantly strategy, Ihave engaged the Responsible Business Committee lower than the Groups funding limit of 10 per cent of pre bonus in discussions on pay.
This dialogue will continue during 2017. underlyingprofit.
In 2016, the Group has completed the moves to ensure that all A formulaic approach has been used to set the Executive Directors customer-facing colleagues in Retail are now incentivised by bonus awards, consistent with other colleagues across the Group.
The reference to Balanced Scorecard metrics, rather than individual Committee determined that bonus awards of between 77percent orbranch level sales or product targets.
This change ensures that and 78 per cent of maximum should be made to Executive Directors.
colleagues are rewarded for action and behaviour that puts Each of these awards, as well as the proposed Group Ownership customers first.
All variable remuneration decisions take into Share awards detailed in the report, reflect the Groups strong consideration the Groups Value, Codes of Responsibility, and underlying performance against both financial and Balanced the Conduct Pillars Integrity, Compliance and Competence.
The long-term incentive plan LTIP awards made in 2014 are Sharing in the Groups performance As part of considering the structure of remuneration, the proposed to vest at 55 per cent, reflecting performance in the periodto 31 December 2016.
Committee concluded that it was important all colleagues should understand that they share in the overall performance of the Group Overall, the total remuneration for the Executive Directors is down by alongside other stakeholders.
The short-term variable remuneration around 35 per cent compared to 2015.
Further details on the reward element that supports this will be known as the Group Performance outcomes for Executive Directors are outlined in the annual report Share plan'.
The plan outcome will be determined top-down as a percentage The Groups approach to deferral of total variable remuneration of the Groups underlying profit, modified based on the Groups ensures that both the short-term and long-term elements are subject Balanced Scorecard performance and any collective adjustment for to deferral in a way that results in a slower release of variable risk and conduct matters.
The clear and transparent link between remuneration than the minimum regulatory requirements.
In line risk-adjusted profit and the Group Performance Share plan outcome with the new PRA remuneration requirements for PRA Senior ensures direct alignment between the interests of colleagues Managers, the Group Ownership Share element is deferred over including Executive Directors and shareholders.
seven years with pro rata vesting between the third and seventh year.
Building a long-term ownership culture Across all colleagues, less than 3.5 per cent of annual bonus plan The Group promotes the broadest possible share ownership by awards are above 25,000 and relate to high performing colleagues colleagues to build a culture of acting as stewards of the long-term at senior levels.
The first 2,000 of any bonus award continues to be interests of the Group.
paid in cash in March 2017, with the balance deferred in shares which are released periodically over subsequent months and years.
Over 80 per cent of colleagues hold an interest in the Group through participation in one of our existing share plans.
To achieve 2017 Executive Director salaries 100percent share ownership, for the first time in 2017, all colleagues It was the Committees intent that Executive Director salary in the Group will receive an award of shares valued at 200, which they increases remain aligned with the 2 per cent budget for all will be required to hold for at least three years.
We will look to repeat colleagues.
With that principle in mind, the Committee proposes awards in future years, dependent on delivering against the Groups toincrease the base salaries of the Chief Financial Officer and the strategic aims.
Chief Risk Officer by 2 per cent.
Executive-level share ownership is high, with all Executive Director As disclosed in the 2015 Directors remuneration report, for the first shareholdings well above their minimum requirement under the time since 2011, a salary increase was applied in 2016 for the Group shareholding policy.
The Group Chief Executives current shareholding Chief Executive to begin to adjust his base salary to the previously significantly exceeds the level required, as detailed in the annual disclosed Reference Salary of 1.22 million, which was set relative report on remuneration.
tothe market when he joined in 2011, and for the adjustment to bestaged over two years.
As a result the second stage of the To align with the culture of broader share ownership, the long-term element of variable remuneration will be known as the Group adjustment to 1.22 million is to be implemented with effect from January 2017, with 2 per cent of the increase delivered in cash and Ownership Share plan.
This plan incentivises and rewards Executive the remainder in shares.
Directors and senior colleagues against Group financial and strategic objectives designed to deliver superior and sustainable long-term 2017 Annual General Meeting returns for shareholders.
Executives will build a direct ownership Approval for the Directors remuneration policy will be sought at the interest in the Group if those strategic objectives are met over the AGM on 11 May 2017: if approved, it will take effect from that date.
The Committee decided that the I hope you will support the resolutions relating to remuneration.
performance measures for the 2017 awards should align to the revised Reward Principles, and with that, the Groups strategic priorities.
Remuneration outcomes for 2016 The Group has delivered strong financial performance in 2016 following further strategic progress.
Underlying profit was 7.9billion and statutory profit has more than doubled to 4.2 billion.
The Groups balance sheet remains strong and capital generation of Anita Frew approximately 190 basis points has enabled the Group to increase the Chairman, Remuneration Committee ordinary dividend, pay a special dividend and fully cover the expected capital impact of the MBNA acquisition.
85 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued SUMMARY OF THE REMUNERATION REVIEW Enhancing the link between remuneration and strategy As part of the review of the Groups variable remuneration arrangements in 2016, the existing reward principles were simplified and updated toensure they support the Groups strategic priorities.
The table below shows the link between strategic priorities, the reward principles andperformance measures for the Group Ownership Share and Group Performance Share plans.
Further detail can be found in the strategic report.
Short-term measures Long-term measures Group Performance Strategic Group Ownership Share plan, examples priorities Reward principle Share plan include: Creating Customer alignment Net promoter score Helping Britain the best Rewards action and behaviour which puts customers first ProsperPlan FCA total reportable customer Builds a responsible business plan that helps Britain prosper complaints per 1,000 Best Bank for experience accounts and Financial Customersindex Supports the Culture Plan Ombudsman Service Digital active FOS uphold rate customerbase Digital active customerbase Becoming Simple, affordable and motivating Cost:income ratio Cost:income ratio simpler Flexible and simple Economic proift and more Transparent and understood by colleagues efficient and other stakeholders Motivating awards which colleagues value Delivering Shareholder alignment Absolute Total Underlying profit sustainable Supports delivery of long-term, superior ShareholderReturn beforetax growth and sustainable returns Common equity tier 1 Promotes sound and effective risk management CET1 ratio Complies with regulations PRA stress test Building the Competitive, performance-driven and fair Employee Performance best team Drives successful change towards Bank of theFuture engagementindex excellenceindex Encourages working together as one team Employee engagementindex Delivers fair outcomes, based on performance, not personal characteristics Inclusion & Diversity The Groups remuneration arrangements support its purpose of helping Britain prosper and align to the Groups aim of becoming the best bank forcustomers, whilst delivering long-term, superior and sustainable returns for shareholders.
The Group believes in offering fair reward.
It fosters a performance-driven and meritocratic culture where colleagues share in the collective success of the Group and are rewarded for performance aligned to the long-term sustainable success of the business and the commitment to changing the culture of the Group.
The new variable remuneration arrangements have been designed to reinforce the simplified reward principles and maintain a separate short-term and long-term model.
Remuneration remains weighted towards the long-term and the design closely aligns to the Groups strategic priorities.
There have not been any changes to the maximum potential under either plan.
The graphic below summarises the elements of the Executive Directors total remuneration package for 2017.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION SHORTLONGFIXED TERM PLAN TERM PLAN TOTAL BASE SHARE PENSION BENEFITS Group Group SALARY REMUNERATION AWARD Performance Ownership Share Share Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Simplifying the approach to short-term variable remuneration: Group Performance Share The Group Performance Share plan provides Executive Directors and colleagues with a reward for delivery against the Groups short-term financial and strategic priorities.
The annual performance share outcome is based on a percentage of the Groups underlying profit, adjusted by a strategic multiplier based on the Groups Balanced Scorecard BSC metrics and risk matters.
This approach replaces the more complex methodology used in recent years where the Groups total bonus outcome was driven by the aggregate divisional and functional bonus outcomes and provides a clear line of sight for Executive Directors, colleagues and shareholders.
86 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In order to ensure that the opportunity under the Group Performance Share plan is not increased when compared to the previous annual bonus plan, the Committee has included threshold and maximum payout levels.
The maximum for 2017 is 20 per cent above the underlying profit target and a Top rating against Balanced Scorecard objectives.
This is consistent with prior years.
The threshold is set at 20 per cent below the Groups underlying profit target.
% OF COLLECTIVE GROUP GROUP BSC PERFORMANCE UNDERLYING RISK MODIFIER SHARE PROFIT ADJUSTMENT Long-term variable remuneration: Group Ownership Share From 2017, the long-term incentive plan will be known as the Group Ownership Share plan to reinforce its link to the Groups strategic priorities and provide greater shareholder alignment.
The Group Ownership Share plan ensures Executive Directors and senior colleagues build an ownership interest in the Group and are motivated by delivering long-term superior and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Vesting is subject to future three-year performance with a clear link between measures and key strategic priorities.
65% 35% GROUP OWNERSHIP FINANCIAL STRATEGIC SHARE MEASURES MEASURES 2017 deferral of variable remuneration Under new PRA remuneration requirements, 60 per cent of variable remuneration awarded to PRA Senior Managers must be deferred for seven years with pro rata vesting between the third and seventh year.
The Groups approach ensures that both short-term and long-term variable remuneration is subject to deferral and is more onerous than the minimum PRA requirements, as over 60 per cent of variable remuneration awarded to Executive Directors is deferred under the Group Ownership Share plan and vests over a period of seven years from the date of grant.
Due to this more onerous approach under the Group Ownership Share plan, awards for Executive Directors under the Group Performance Share plan are deferred for two years as follows: 40 per cent will be released in the first year following award: 40 per cent will be released in the second year: and the remaining 20 per cent will be released in the third year.
The graphic below illustrates how the Groups deferral approach for Executive Directors who are PRA Senior Managers for regulatory purposes continues to be weighted to the long term, underpinning the strategic priority and reward principle of delivering sustainable growth.
Any shares released are subject to a further holding period in line with regulatory requirements and market practice.
In line with shareholder expectations, noGroup Ownership Share awards are unconditionally released until at least five years after grant.
20% Individual Performance period: 2017 Group Ownership Share held for performance 2017 awards are subject to a three-year 6 months determines performance period 20% 2017 Group held for Ownership 6 months Share award 20% held for 6 months Holding 20% period 1 year Holding 20% period 2 years Performance Group Performance Share 20% period For the 2017 performance period Holding period 12 months 40% Holding period 12 months 40% Holding period 12 months 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 87 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE How Lloyds Banking Group performed Annual bonus plan outcome Key performance measures The Group has delivered strong financial performance in 2016 The table below illustrates outcomes against the Groups key following further strategic progress.
In reaching the decision on performance measures relevant to remuneration.
the2016 bonus outcome, the Committee considered the The annual bonus outcome is driven by a combination of Group conduct-related provisions, including an additional provision for underlying profit and Balanced Scorecard performance.
This led to a downward adjustment of 19 per cent.
long-term incentive plan measures Group performance over a The total bonus award as a percentage of pre-bonus underlying three-year period, using arange of financial andstrategic measures.
profit before tax increased from 4.2 per cent in 2015 to 4.8 per cent in 2016.
This compares favourably to shareholder return from Measure 2016 2015 dividend payments over the same period which increased to 26.3per cent of underlying profit and remains significantly lower 1 Underlying profit before tax 7,867m 8,112m than the Groups funding limit of 10 per cent of pre bonus Group Balanced Scorecard Strong plus Strong underlying profit.
Economic profit 3,377m 2,233m For Executive Directors, awards of between 77 per cent and 78percent of maximum opportunity were determined reflecting Total Shareholder Return TSR Group and individual performance.
Per annum for the three years ended 31December 5% 16.6% 2 Cost:income ratio 48.7% 49.3% 26.3% of underlying profit Net promoter score 62.7 59.3 2016 4.8% of underlying profit Digital active customer base 12.5m 11.5m Employee engagement index 71 71 23.5% of underlying profit 2015 1 The underlying profit result used for remuneration purposes was 7,994 million 4.2% of excluding TSB.
underlying profit 2 The adjusted cost:income ratio result used for remuneration purposes was 50.5per cent.
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 Bonus amount post adjustment m Dividend m Dividend includes ordinary and special dividend Long-term incentive plan outcome The Group has delivered a good financial performance over the performance period of the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards, continuing to transform the business for the benefit of its shareholders.
Performance was measured over three financial years ended 31 December 2016.
The performance conditions attached to these awards and actual performance are set out in the table below.
At the end of the performance period, it has been assessed that awards will vest at 55 per cent of maximum.
Executive Directors are required to retain any shares vesting for a further two years postvesting.
Performance achievement versus targets Vesting as % maximum Weighting Measure Threshold Maximum for that element 30% Economic profit 2,154m 3,231m 30% Actual: 3,377m 30% Absolute TSR 8% p. a 16% p. a 0% Actual: 5% 1 10% Cost:income ratio 48.9% 46.5% 0% Actual: 50.5% 2 10% Customer satisfaction 0.54 0.50 10% Actual: 0.46 10% Net promotor score 3rd place 1st place 10% Actual: 1st place 5% SME lending 14% 18% 0% Actual: 13.4% 5% Share of first-time buyer market 20% 25% 5% Actual: 25.5% LTIP % maximum vesting 55% 1 Adjusted total costs.
2 FCA reportable complaints per 1,000 for the period up to and including H1 2016 and formally closed FCA complaints per 1,000 accounts for the period from H2 2016.
Both exclude PPI complaints, any complaints received via Claims Management Companies CMC and any complaints relating to TSB activity.
With the introduction of the FCA guidance contained in PS15 19 applicable from 1 July 2016, the complaint classification and reporting for the original metric ceased on 30 June 2016.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has rebased the original 2014metrics in line with the new FCA reporting regime.
The Remuneration Committee considers the rebased targets equally stretching.
88 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Director remuneration outcomes The charts below summarise the Executive Directors remuneration for the years ended 31December 2015 and 2016.
2 2014 LTIP vesting and dividend equivalents awarded in shares were confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 15 February 2017.
The average share price between 1October 2016 and 31December 2016 58.30 pence has been used to calculate the value.
The shares were awarded in 2014 based on a share price of 78.878 pence.
Directors fixed remuneration for 2017 Base salary 2017 base salaries will be as follows: Group Chief Executive: 1,220,000 1 January 2017 Chief Financial Officer: 764,070 1 April 2017 Chief Risk Officer: 753,458 1 January 2017 Fixed share award The levels of award set for 2017 remain unchanged and are as follows: Group Chief Executive: 900,000 Chief Financial Officer: 504,000 Chief Risk Officer: 497,000 89 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Approval for this remuneration policy will be sought at the AGM on 11 May 2017 and, if approved, will take effect from that date.
It is intended that approval of the remuneration policy will be sought at three-year intervals, unless amendments to the policy are required, in which case further shareholder approval will be sought.
Information on how the Policy will be implemented in 2017 is included in the annual report on remuneration.
The Groups policy continues to help ensure that the remuneration proposition is both cost effective and enables the Group to attract and retain executives of the highest calibre.
The objective is to align individual reward with the Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders andaprudent approach to risk management.
In this way, the requirements of the major stakeholders are balanced: customers, shareholders, employees, and regulators.
The policy is based on principles which are applicable to all employees within the Group and, in particular, the principle that the reward package should support the delivery of the Group's purpose of helping Britain prosper and the strategic aim of becoming the best bank for customers whilst delivering long-term superior and sustainable returns to shareholders.
It fosters a performance-driven and meritocratic culture, encourages effective risk disciplines and is in line with relevant regulations and codes of best practice.
There is no significant difference between the policy forExecutive Directors and that for other senior employees.
If a significant difference for any individual were proposed, this would be subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee within regulatory requirements.
The table below summarises how the policy applies across the Group.
Group Executive Other Material Executive Directors Committee Risk Takers Other employees Base salary Fixed 1 Fixed share award Pension and benefits Variable Short-term incentive 1 1 Long-term incentive 1 Eligibility based on seniority, grade and role.
Consideration of shareholders and employees views The Group is committed to regular dialogue with stakeholders.
In formulating the policy, the Remuneration Committee has consulted extensively with a number of shareholders and key stakeholders, such as the Groups main regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The following topics were discussed: Alignment of variable remuneration to Group strategic priorities Structure of variable remuneration Latest regulatory requirements Latest shareholder guidelines Formal consultation on the remuneration of Executive Directors is not undertaken with employees and no formal remuneration comparison measurements were used.
However, surveys are undertaken semi-annually on employee engagement and discussion on the Groups remuneration approach takes place with union representatives during the annual pay review cycle and on relevant employee reward matters, on which the Remuneration Committee receives and considers relevant feedback.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed equal pay analysis undertaken by an independent third party and will continue to monitor this on an ongoing basis.
Colleague opinion is also sought through regular engagement surveys.
This includes questions relating to remuneration, the results of which in 2016positioned colleague satisfaction with the Groups reward arrangements, including the link to performance, above the high performing norm ofUKcompanies.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy To support the recruitment and retention of Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop and deliver the Groups strategic priorities.
Base salary reflects the role of the individual, taking account of market competitiveness, responsibilities and experience, and pay in the Group as a whole.
Operation Base salaries are typically reviewed annually with any increases normally taking effect from 1 January.
When determining and reviewing base salary levels, the Committee takes into account base salary increases for employees throughout the Group and ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Pay for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
Salary may be paid in sterling or other currency and at an exchange rate determined by the Committee.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Increases will normally be in line with the increase awarded to the overall employee population.
However, a greater salary increase may be appropriate in certain circumstances, such as a new appointment made on a salary below a market competitive level, where phased increases are planned, or where there has been an increase in the responsibilities of an individual.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, theCommittee will provide an explanation in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
Performance measures N A Changes Previously, the Group Chief Executive GCE had a reference salary of 1.22 million which was used to calculate certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Due to the GCEs base salary being to his reference salary effective from 1 January 2017, the concept of reference salary is being removed.
Elements oflong-term remuneration and the pension allowance which were previously calculated with regard to reference salary will be calculated with regard to the GCEs base salary.
90 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Fixed share award Purpose and link to strategy To ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with role and to provide a competitive reward package for Executive Directors with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
Operation The fixed share award will initially be delivered entirely in Lloyds Banking Group shares, released over five years with 20 per cent being released each year following the year of award.
The Committee can, however, decide to deliver some or all of it in the form of cash.
Maximum potential The maximum award is 100 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A Changes No change to policy Pension Purpose and link to strategy To provide cost effective and market competitive retirement benefits, supporting Executive Directors in building long-term retirement savings.
Operation Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Groups defined contribution scheme with company contributions set as a percentage of salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension allowance as cash in lieu of pension contribution.
Maximum potential The maximum allowance for the GCE is 50 per cent of base salary less any flexible benefits allowance.
The maximum allowance for other Executive Directors is 25 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A Changes No change to policy for existing Executive Directors.
All future appointments as Executive Directors will attract a maximum allowance of 25 per cent of base salary.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide flexible benefits as part of a competitive remuneration package.
Operation Benefits may include those currently provided and disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Core benefits include a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and other benefits that may be selected through the Groups flexible benefits plan.
Additional benefits may be provided to individuals in certain circumstances such as relocation.
This may include benefits such as accommodation, relocation, and travel.
The Committee retains the right to provide additional benefits depending on individual circumstances.
When determining and reviewing the level of benefits provided, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Benefits for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
Maximum potential The Committee will make only increases in the benefits currently provided which it believes are consistent with the two parameters above.
Executive Directors receive a flexible benefits allowance, in line with all other employees.
The flexible benefits allowance does not currently exceed 4 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A Changes No change to policy All-employee plans Purpose and link to strategy Executive Directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved share plans which promote share ownership bygiving employees an opportunity to invest in Group shares.
Operation Executive Directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Maximum potential Participation levels may be increased up to HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
The monthly savings limits for Save As You Earn SAYE is currently 500.
The maximum value of shares that may be purchased under the Share Incentive Plan SIP in any year is currently 1,800 with a two-for-one match.
Currently a three-for-two match is operated up to a maximum employee investment of 30 per month.
The maximum value of free shares that may be awarded in any year is 3,600.
Performance measures N A Changes No change to policy 91 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued Group Performance Share plan Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups annual financial and strategic targets whilst supporting the delivery of long-term superior and sustainable returns Operation Measures and targets are set annually and awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based onperformance against the targets set.
The Group Performance Share may be delivered partly in cash, shares, notes or other debt instruments including contingent convertible bonds.
Where all or part of any award is deferred, the Committee may adjust these deferred awards in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend or distribution or amend the terms of the plan in accordance with the plan rules.
Where an award or a deferred award is in shares or other share-linked instrument, the number of shares to beawarded may be calculated using a fair value or based on discount to market value, as appropriate.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce the level of award including to zero, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of deferred awards to a specified date or until conditions set by theCommittee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Awards may be subject to malus and clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date ofaward which may be extended to 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or .
Maximum potential The maximum Group Performance Share opportunities are 140 per cent of base salary for the GCE and100percent of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Performance measures Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee in line with the Groups strategic business plan andfurther details are set out in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
Measures consist of both financial and non-financial measures and the weighting of these measures will be determined annually by the Committee.
The weightings of the performance measures for the 2017 financial year are set out on page 99.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance as determined by the Committee is not met for financial measures or the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the Group Performance Share is 30 per cent of maximum opportunity.
The Committee is committed to providing transparency in its decision making in respect of Group Performance Share awards and will disclose historic measures and target information together with information relating to how the Group has performed against those targets in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year except to the extent that this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive, in which case it will be disclosed once it is deemed not to be sensitive.
Changes Due to regulatory changes, Executive Directors can no longer receive dividend equivalents on deferred shares.
The number of shares to be awarded may be calculated using a fair or discounted value.
If regulatory requirements change, dividend equivalents may be paid.
There are no changes to maximum opportunity.
Group Ownership Share plan Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward Executive Directors and senior management to deliver against strategic objectives designed to support the long-term success of the Group and encourage working as a team.
It ensures executives build an ownership interest in the Group and are motivated by delivering long-term superior and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Operation Awards are granted under the rules of the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan approved at the AGM on 12 May 2016.
Awards are made in the form of conditional shares or nil cost options.
Award levels are set at the time of grant, incompliance with regulatory requirements, and may be subject to a discount in determining total variable remuneration under the rules set by the European Banking Authority.
The number of shares to be awarded may be calculated using a fair value or based on a discount to market value, as appropriate.
Vesting will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over a period of three years, orsuch longer period, as determined by the Committee.
The Committee retains full discretion to amend the payout levels should the award not reflect business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce including to zero the level of the award, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Awards may be subject to malus and clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date of award which may be extended to 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
Maximum potential The maximum annual award for Executive Directors will normally be 300 per cent of salary.
Under the plan rules, awards can be made up to 400 per cent of salary in exceptional circumstances.
92 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Performance measures Measures and targets are set by the Committee annually and are set out in the annual report on remuneration each year.
At least 60 per cent of awards are weighted towards typical market e. g. Total Shareholder Return and or financial measures e. g. economic profit, with the balance on strategic measures.
25 per cent will vest for threshold performance, 50 per cent for on-target performance and 100 per cent for maximum performance.
The measures are chosen to support the best bank for customers strategy and to align management and shareholder interests.
Targets are set by the Committee to be stretching within the context of the strategic business plan.
Measures are selected to balance profitability, achievement of strategic goals and to ensure theincentive does not encourage inappropriate risk-taking.
Following the end of the relevant performance period, the Committee will disclose in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year historic measure and target information, together with how the Group has performed against those targets, unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive, in which case itwill be disclosed once it is deemed not to be sensitive.
Deferral of variable remuneration and holding periods Operation The Group Performance Share and Group Ownership Share plans are both considered variable remuneration forthe purpose of regulatory payment and deferral requirements.
The payment of variable remuneration and deferral levels are determined at the time of award and in compliance with regulatory requirements which currently require that at least 60 per cent of total variable remuneration is deferred for seven years with pro rata vesting between the third and seventh year, and at least 50 per cent of total variable remuneration is paid in shares or other equity linked instruments subject to a holding period in line with current regulatory requirements.
A proportion of the aggregate variable remuneration may vest immediately on award.
The remaining proportion of the variable remuneration is then deferred in line with regulatory requirements.
Changes The deferral period has been extended to comply with new regulatory requirements.
Further information on which performance measures were chosen and how performance targets are set are disclosed in the relevant sections throughout the report.
Discretion in relation to Group Performance Share and Group Ownership Share plans The Committee retains discretion with regards to these plans.
This relates to: the timing, size and type of awards and holding periods, subject to policy maxima: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : where qualitative performance measures are used and performance against those measures is not commensurate with the Groups overall financial performance over the performance period: adjustment of targets and measures if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate.
The Committee also retains the right to change performance targets and measures and the weighting of measures, including following feedback from regulators, shareholders and or other stakeholders: and amending the plan rules in accordance with their terms.
The exercise of the Committees discretion will be disclosed in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Legacy awards and restrictions on payments The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments awards and any payments awards for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment award were agreed i before the Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders on 15 May 2014 the 2014 policy came into effect: ii pursuant to the 2014 policy: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment award was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
Such payments awards will have been set out in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
Theyinclude awards and payments made under previous approved remuneration policy and payments in relation to deferred bonus awards and long-term incentive awards granted in 2012 and 2013.
Illustration of application of remuneration policy The charts below illustrate possible remuneration outcomes under the following three scenarios: 1.
The maximum that may be paid, assuming full Group Performance Share payout and full vesting under the Group Ownership Share plan.
The expected value of remuneration for performance midway between threshold and maximum, assuming 30 per cent of maximum Group Performance Share opportunity and 50 per cent vesting under the Group Ownership Share plan.
The minimum that may be paid, where only the fixed element is paid salary, benefits, pension and the fixed share award.
93 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued No share price growth has been assumed.
The amounts are based on salaries as at 1 January 2017 GCE and CRO and 1 April 2017 CFO andimplementation of the policy in 2017 as set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Value of package 000 Maximum 15% 9% 10% 21% 45% 8,199 Mid-Performance 24% 14% 17% 10% 35% 5,173 Minimum 43% 25% 32% 2,831 9,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 Salary Benets and pension Fixed share award Group Performance Share Group Ownership Share George Culmer Value of package 000 Maximum 17% 5% 11% 17% 50% 4,552 Mid-Performance 27% 8% 17% 8% 40% 2,871 Minimum 51% 15% 34% 1,496 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 Salary Benets and pension Fixed share award Group Performance Share Group Ownership Share Juan Colombs Value of package 000 Maximum 17% 5% 11% 17% 50% 4,517 Mid-Performance 26% 9% 17% 8% 40% 2,860 Minimum 50% 17% 33% 1,505 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 Salary Benets and pension Fixed share award Group Performance Share Group Ownership Share Approach to recruitment and appointment to the Board In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors.
This may include the experience and calibre of the individual, local market practice, the existing remuneration arrangements for other executives and the business circumstances.
The Committee will seek to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Group andits shareholders and will seek not to pay more than is necessary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares, the currency of the awards, and the timeframe of awards.
Any such award made will be made in accordance with the PRAs Rulebook and made on a comparable basis to those forfeited and subject to malus and clawback at the request of the previous employer as required by the PRA rules.
The package will normally be aligned with the remuneration policy as described in the policy report.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of the calibre required and in exceptional cases.
This may, for example, include the following circumstances: An interim recruit, appointed to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis.
Exceptional circumstances requiring the Chairman to take on an executive function on a short-term basis.
An Executive Director recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a Group Performance Share or Group Ownership Share award for that year, for example, where there may be insufficient time to assess performance.
In this situation the Committee may feel it appropriate to transfer the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on afair basis.
An Executive Director recruited from a business or location where benefits are provided that do not fall into the definition of variable remuneration forfeited but where the Committee considers it reasonable to buy-out these benefits.
Transitional arrangements for overseas hires, which might include relocation expenses and accommodation.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding buy-out awards that may be awarded to new Executive Directors is equal to 200 per cent of fixed remuneration, including any discount permitted by the European Banking Authority for Group Ownership Share awards.
In making any such remuneration decisions, the Committee will apply any appropriate performance measures in line with those applied to other ExecutiveDirectors.
A full explanation will be provided of any buy-out award or discretionary payment.
94 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Service agreements The service contracts of all current Executive Directors are terminable on 12 months notice from the Group and six months notice from the individual.
The Chairman also has a letter of appointment.
His engagement may be terminated on six months notice by either the Group or him.
Notice to be given by the Group Date of service agreement Lord Blackwell 6 months 31 March 2014 Antnio Horta-Osrio 12 months 3 November 2010 George Culmer 12 months 1 March 2012 Juan Colombs 12 months 30 November 2010 Under his contract dated 3 November 2010, Antnio Horta-Osrio GCE is entitled to an amount equivalent to base salary and pension allowance as a payment in lieu of notice if notice to terminate is given by the Group.
If notice to terminate is given by the GCE, he is entitled to an amount equivalent to base salary if the Group chooses to make a payment in lieu of notice.
Such payments in lieu will be made in monthly instalments subject to mitigation.
He is also entitled to six months notice from the Group in the event of his long-term incapacity.
As part of a buy-out of a pension forfeited on joining from Santander, the GCE is also entitled to the provision of a conditional unfunded pension commitment, subject to performance conditions as described further in the annual report on remuneration.
In the event of long-term incapacity, if the GCE does not perform his duties for a period of at least 26 weeks in aggregate over a 12 month period, the Group shall be entitled to terminate his employment by giving sixmonths notice.
In all other respects, the terms of the GCEs contract in relation to payments for loss of office match those set out below for newdirectors.
Under terms agreed when joining the Group, Juan Colombs is entitled to a conditional lump sum benefit, payable either i on reaching normal retirement age unless he voluntarily resigns or is dismissed for cause, or ii on leaving due to long-term sickness or death, as described further in the annual report on remuneration.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Notice periods Newly-appointed Executive Directors will be employed on contracts that include the following provisions: The individual will be required to give six months notice if they wish to leave and the Group will give 12 months notice other than for material misconduct or neglect or other circumstances where the individual may be summarily dismissed by written notice.
In exceptional circumstances, new joiners will be offered a longer notice period typically reducing to 12 months within two years of joining.
In the event of long-term incapacity, if the Executive Director does not perform their duties for a period of at least 26 weeks in aggregate over a12 month period, the Group shall be entitled to terminate the executives employment by giving three months notice.
At any time after notice to terminate is given by either the Group or the Executive Director, the Group may require the Executive Director to take leave for some or all of the notice period.
At any time, at its absolute discretion, the Group may elect to terminate the individuals employment by paying to the Executive Director, in lieu of the notice period, an amount equivalent to base salary, subject to mitigation as described more fully in the termination payments section of this report, below.
95 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued Termination payments It is the Groups policy that where compensation on termination is due, it should be paid on a phased basis, mitigated in the event that alternative employment is secured.
Where it is appropriate to make a bonus payment now known as Group Performance Share to the individual, this should relate to the period of actual service, rather than the full notice period.
Any Group Performance Share payment will be determined on the basis of performance as for all continuing employees and will remain subject to performance adjustment malus and clawback and deferral.
Generally, on termination of employment, Group Performance Share awards, long-term incentive awards now known as Group Ownership Share and other rights to payments will lapse except where termination falls within one of the reasons set out below.
In the event of redundancy, the individual may receive a payment in line with statutory entitlements at that time.
If an Executive Director is dismissed for gross misconduct, the Executive Director will receive normal contractual entitlements until the date of termination and all deferred Group Performance Share and Group Ownership Share awards will lapse.
Pension, benefits and Base salary Fixed share award other fixed remuneration Resignation In the case of resignation to take up Awards continue and are released at Paid until date of termination new employment, paid until date of the normal time and the number of including any period of leave termination including any period of shares subject to the award in the required by the Group subject to leave required by the Group.
In the current year will be reduced to individual benefit scheme rules.
case of resignation for other reasons, reflect the date of termination.
base salary will be paid in monthly instalments for the notice period orany balance of it, offset by earnings from new employment during this period.
Redundancy or termination Paid until date of termination Awards will normally continue and Paid until date of termination by mutual agreement including any period of leave be released at the normal time and including any period of leave required by the Group.
In respect the number of shares subject to required by the Group subject to ofthe balance of any notice period, the award in the current year will be individual benefit scheme rules.
base salary will be paid in monthly reduced to reflect the date of instalments, offset by earnings from termination unless, in the case of new employment during this period.
mutual agreement, the Committee determines that exceptional circumstances apply in which case shares may be released on termination.
Retirement ill health, injury, Paid until date of retirement death.
Awards will normally continue and be Paid until date of death retirement permanent disability death For ill health, injury or permanent released at the normal time and the subject to individual benefit scheme disability which results in the loss of number of shares subject to the rules.
For ill health, injury, permanent employment, paid for the applicable award in the current year will be disability, paid for the notice period notice period including any period reduced to reflect the date of including any period of leave of leave required by the Group.
termination except for i death required by the Group subject to where shares are released on the individual benefit scheme rules.
date of termination: or ii in the case of permanent disability the Committee determines that exceptional circumstances apply in which case shares may be released on the date of termination.
Change of control or merger N A Awards will be payable on the date N A of the Change of Control and the number of shares subject to the award will be reduced to reflect the shorter accrual period.
The Committee may decide that vested awards will be exchanged for and future awards made over shares in the acquiring company or other relevant company.
Other reason where the Paid until date of termination Awards continue and are released at Paid until date of termination Committee determines that including any period of leave the normal time and the number of including any period of leave the executive should be required by the Group.
In respect shares subject to the award in the required by the Group subject to treated as a good leaver ofthe balance of any notice period, current year will be reduced to reflect individual benefit scheme rules.
base salary will be paid in monthly the date of termination.
instalments, offset by earnings from new employment during this period.
96 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual bonus now known as Long-term incentive now known as Chairman and 1 2 3 Group Performance Share Group Ownership Share Non-Executive Director fees Resignation Unvested deferred Group Awards lapse on date of leaving or on Paid until date of leaving Board.
Performance Share awards are notice of leaving unless the forfeited and in-year Group Committee determines otherwise in Performance Share awards are exceptional circumstances that they accrued until the date of termination will vest on the original vesting date or or the commencement of garden exceptionally on the date of leaving.
leave if earlier unless the Committee Where award is to vest it will be subject determines otherwise in exceptional to the performance conditions and circumstances.
time pro-rating for months worked in performance period.
Malus and clawback will apply.
Redundancy or termination For cases of redundancy, unvested Awards vest on the original vesting Paid until date of leaving Board.
date or exceptionally on the date of by mutual agreement deferred Group Performance Share awards are retained and in-year leaving.
Vesting is subject to the performance conditions and time Group Performance Share awards are accrued until the date of termination pro-rating for months worked in performance period.
Malus and or the commencement of garden leave if earlier.
Such awards would clawback will apply.
besubject to deferral, malus and clawback.
For termination by mutual agreement, the same approach as forresignation would apply.
Retirement ill health, injury, Unvested deferred Group Awards vest on the original vesting Paid until date of leaving Board.
permanent disability Performance Share awards are date or exceptionally on the date of retained and in-year Group leaving.
Vesting is subject to the Performance Share awards are accrued performance conditions and time until the date of termination or the pro-rating for months worked in commencement of garden leave if performance period.
Such awards would be subject clawback will apply.
to deferral, malus and clawback.
Death Unvested deferred Group Awards vest on death subject to the Paid until date of leaving Board.
Performance Share awards are performance conditions and time retained and in-year Group pro-rating for months worked in Performance Share awards are performance period unless accrued until the date of termination.
Malus Deferred Group Performance Share and clawback will apply.
awards vest on death in cash, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Change of control In-year Group Performance Share Awards vest on date of event.
Paid until date of leaving Board.
2 or merger accrued up until date of change of Vesting is subject to the performance control or merger current year.
conditions and time pro-rating for Where there is a Corporate Event, months worked in performance deferred Group Performance Share period unless determined otherwise.
awards vest to the extent and timing Malus and clawback will normally determined by the Committee in its apply.
Instead of vesting, awards may absolute discretion.
be exchanged for equivalent awards over the shares of the acquiring company or another company.
Other reason where the Unvested deferred Group Awards vest on the original vesting Paid until date of leaving Board.
Committee determines that Performance Share awards are date or exceptionally on the date the executive should be retained and in-year Group of leaving.
Vesting is subject to the treated as a good leaver Performance Share awards are performance conditions and time accrued until the date of termination pro-rating for months worked in or the commencement of garden performance period.
Malus and leave if earlier.
Deferred Group clawback will apply.
Performance Share awards vest in line with normal timeframes and are subject to malus and clawback.
The Committee may allow awards to vest early if it considers it appropriate.
1 If any Group Performance Share is to be paid to the Executive Director for the current year, this will be determined on the basis of performance for the period of actual service, rather than the full notice period and so excluding any period of leave required by the Group.
2 Reference to change of control or merger includes a compromise or arrangement under section 899 of the Companies Act 2006 or equivalent.
Fixed share awards may also be released exchanged in the event of a resolution for the voluntary winding up of the Company: a demerger, delisting, distribution other than an ordinary dividend or other transaction, which, in the opinion of the Committee, might affect the current or future value of any award: or a reverse takeover, merger by way of a dual listed company or other significant corporate event, as determined by the Committee.
In the event of a demerger, special dividend or other transaction which would in the Committees opinion affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow a long-term incentive award to vest to the extent relevant performance conditions are met to that date and if the Committee so determined, on a time pro-rated basis unless determined otherwise to reflect the number of months of the performance period worked.
3 The Chairman is entitled to six months notice.
97 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued On termination, the Executive Director will be entitled to payment for any accrued but untaken holiday calculated by reference to base salary andfixed share award.
The cost of legal, tax or other advice incurred by an Executive Director in connection with the termination of their employment and or the cost of support in seeking alternative employment may be met up to a maximum of 100,000.
Additional payments may be made where required to settle legal disputes, or as consideration for new or amended post-employment restrictions.
Where an Executive Director is in receipt of expatriate or relocation expenses at the time of termination as at the date of the AGM no current Executive Directors are in receipt of such expenses, the cost of actual expenses incurred may continue to be reimbursed for up to 12 months after termination or, at the Groups discretion, a one-off payment may be made to cover the costs of premature cancellation.
The cost of repatriation may also be covered.
Remuneration policy table for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain a high-calibre individual with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
Operation The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board with regards to the Chairmans fees.
The Chairman does not participate in these discussions.
The GCE and the Chairman are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the fees of the NEDs.
When determining and reviewing fee and benefit levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following parameters: The individuals skills and experience.
An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective sizing methodologies.
Fees and benefits for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee, which is reviewed periodically plus benefits including life insurance, car allowance, medical insurance and transportation.
NEDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for the chairmanship membership of committees and for membership of Group companies boards non-board level committees.
Additional fees are also paid to the senior independent director and to the deputy chairman to reflect additional responsibilities.
Any increases normally take effect from 1 January of a given year.
The Chairman and the NEDs are not entitled to receive any payment for loss of office other than in the case of the Chairmans fees for the six month notice period and are not entitled to participate in the Groups bonus, share plan or pension arrangements.
NEDs are reimbursed for expenses incurred in the course of their duties, such as travel and accommodation expenses, on a grossed-up basis where applicable.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in fees or benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent withthe parameters above.
Performance metrics N A Changes No change to policy.
Letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors all have letters of appointment and are appointed for an initial term of three years after which their appointment may continue subject to an annual review.
Non-Executive Directors may have their appointment terminated, in accordance with statute and the articles of association, at any time with immediate effect and without compensation.
Date of letter of appointment Alan Dickinson 26 June 2014 Deborah McWhinney 26 November 2015 Anita Frew 17 November 2010 Nick Prettejohn 1 April 2014 Simon Henry 1 May 2014 Stuart Sinclair 26 November 2015 Dyfrig John 28 October 2013 Anthony Watson 23 February 2009 Nick Luff 25 February 2013 Sara Weller 31 January 2012 All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The service contracts and letters of appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
98 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Implementation of the policy in 2017 It is proposed to operate the policy in the following way in 2017: Base salary The Group has applied a 2 per cent overall salary budget increase for the general population differentiated by performance and market position with increases of around 4 per cent for strongly performing colleagues.
Salary increases of 2 per cent are proposed for the Chief Financial Officer CFO and the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
As announced last year, for the first time since 2011 a salary increase was applied in 2016 for the Group Chief Executive to begin to adjust his base salary to the previously disclosed reference salary of 1,220,000 which was set relative to the market when he joined in 2011.
After discussing the proposed increase with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee decided to stage the adjustment over two years, with an initial increase to 1,125,000 effective from 1 January 2016 and the second stage increase to 1,220,000 due to be implemented with effect from 1 January 2017.
The form of the increase will follow that for 2016, with 2percent delivered in cash in line with other colleagues and the remainder in shares, held until the government has sold its shareholding in the Group.
Salaries will therefore be as follows, effective dates shown below: GCE: 1,220,000 1 January 2017 CFO: 764,070 1 April 2017 CRO: 753,458 1 January 2017 Due to the GCEs base salary being increased in line with his reference salary effective from 1 January 2017, the concept of a separate reference salary will be removed.
Reference salary will therefore no longer be used when calculating certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Instead, these elements will be calculated with reference to the GCEs base salary.
Fixed share award The levels of the 2017 award are unchanged from 2016 and are as follows: GCE: 900,000 CFO: 504,000 CRO: 497,000 Shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
Pension Executive Directors are entitled to a pension allowance which they may choose to take as cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The level of allowances has not been increased for 2017.
GCE: 50percent of base salary less flexible benefits allowance CFO: 25percent of base salary CRO: 25percent of base salary Benefits For 2017, the benefits provided to Executive Directors include a car allowance, transportation, private medical insurance, life assurance and other benefits selected through the flexible benefits allowance which is currently capped at 4percent of base salary unchanged from 2016.
All-employee plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Groups Sharesave and Sharematch plans on the same basis as other employees.
Group Performance Share plan Opportunity The maximum Group Performance Share opportunity is 140percent of base salary for the GCE and 100percent of base salary for other Executive Directors unchanged from 2016.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance for the financial measure is not met and or the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The threshold is set at 20percent below the Groups underlying profit target.
Deferral For the 2017 performance year, the Group Performance Share opportunity will be awarded in a combination of cash upto 50 per cent and shares.
40 per cent will be released in the first year following award, 40 per cent will be released in the second year and the remaining 20 per cent will be released in the third year.
Any shares released are subject to afurther holding period in line with regulatory requirements and market practice.
Performance measures For 2017, the Group Performance Share will be based on a percentage of the Groups underlying profit, adjusted by a strategic multiplier of up to 130 per cent based on the Groups Balanced Scorecard BSC metrics and risk matters.
and targets In 2017, at least 75 per cent of performance is weighted towards a financial measure.
Individual awards are adjusted to reflect a balanced scorecard approach with clearly identified performance metrics used to assess Group performance in key areas.
Stretching objectives for each division and function are approved around the start of the performance year.
The objectives are aligned to the Groups strategy and split across five categories: Customer, People, Control environment, Building the business and Finance.
Each measure in the Group and divisional functional BSC is assigned targets aligned to a five-point rating scale.
BSC ratings are based on a scale ranging from Under at the lowest level, through Developing, Good, Strong and up to Top, which is the highest rating.
Each of these ratings may be further differentiated by the addition of minus or plus.
99 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued The Committee considers the targets that apply to these measures to be commercially sensitive but will provide information on the level of payout relative to the performance achieved in next years annual report on remuneration.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with Group, business and or individual performance.
Performance adjustment is determined by the Remuneration Committee and or Board Risk Committee and may result in a reduction of up to 100 per cent of the bonus opportunity for the relevant period.
It can be applied on acollective or individual basis.
When considering collective adjustment, the Senior Independent Performance Adjustment and Conduct Committee SIPACC submits a report to the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee regarding any adjustments required to BSCs or the overall bonus outcome to reflect in-year or prior year risk matters.
The application of malus will generally be considered when: there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error or that they participated in conduct which resulted in losses for the Group or failed to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety: there is material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division and or business unit level: the Committee determines that the financial results for a given year do not support the level of variable remuneration awarded: and or any other circumstances where the Committee consider adjustments should be made.
Judgement on individual performance adjustment is informed by taking into account the severity of the issue, the individuals proximity to the issue and the individuals behaviour in relation to the issue.
Individual adjustment may be applied through adjustments to BSC assessments and or through reducing the bonus outcome.
Awards are subject to clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date of award which may be extended to 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
The application of clawback will generally be considered when: there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error: or there is material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division and or business unit level.
Group Ownership Share plan Opportunity The maximum Group Ownership Share award for Executive Directors is 300percent of salary unchanged from 2016.
Awards in 2017 are being made as follows: GCE: 300percent of reference salary CFO: 275percent of base salary CRO: 275percent of base salary Performance measures During 2016 and early 2017, the Committee consulted widely with shareholders on appropriate performance measures, particularly the link between performance measures and the Groups strategic priorities.
and targets The awards made in 2017 will vest based on the Groups performance against the following key financial andmeasures: Absolute Total Shareholder Return 30 per cent Economic profit 25 per cent Cost:income ratio 10 per cent Strategic measures 35 per cent The following table provides a breakdown of these measures and the targets applicable.
The Committee believes that these measures appropriately capture risk management and long-term sustainable growth, aligning management and shareholder interests.
Each of the measures aligns to the reward principles and, through that, the Groups strategic priorities.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date of award which may be extended to 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
The Committee may consider the application of malus and clawback as outlined in the Group Performance Share plan section above.
Strategic priorities Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting Creating the best customer FCA total reportable complaints Set relative to 2019 targets See note 1 below 10% 1 per 1,000 accounts and experience Financial Ombudsman Service Average rates over 2019 Threshold: 29% FOS uphold rate excl PPI Maximum: 25% Net promoter score Major Group average ranking over Threshold: 3rd 10% 2019 Maximum: 1st Digital active customer base Set relative to 2019 targets Threshold: 14.3m 7.5% Maximum: 14.9m Becoming simpler and more Economic profit Set relative to 2019 targets Threshold: 3,074m 25% efficient Maximum: 3,769m Cost:income ratio Set relative to 2019 targets Threshold: 47.2% 10% Maximum: 45.7% Delivering sustainable growth Absolute Total Shareholder Growth in share price including Threshold: 8% 30% Return TSR dividends over three-year period Maximum: 16% Building the best team Employee Set relative to 2019 targets Threshold: 67% 7.5% engagement index Maximum: 73% 1 The FCA changed the approach to complaint classification and reporting from 30 June 2016.
Updated complaint data is not yet available on the new basis, but will be available by the end ofthe first quarter at which point, or shortly thereafter, the metric will be disclosed.
2 A measure of profit taking into account Expected Losses, tax and a charge for equity utilisation.
100 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees in 2017 The annual fee for the Chairman was increased by 2 per cent to 728,280, in line with the overall salary budget for the general colleague population.
The annual Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed and as result of this review some of the fees were increased, as follows, to reflect market practice in financial services groups of a similar size.
These changes took effect from 1 January 2017.
2017 2016 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 76,500 75,000 Deputy Chairman 100,000 100,000 Senior Independent Director 60,000 60,000 Audit Committee Chairmanship 60,000 70,000 Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 60,000 70,000 Board Risk Committee Chairmanship 60,000 70,000 4 Responsible Business Committee Chairmanship 40,000 40,000 Audit Committee membership 30,000 32,000 Remuneration Committee membership 30,000 32,000 Board Risk Committee membership 30,000 32,000 1 1 Responsible Business Committee members 10,000 15,000 2 3 Nomination and Governance Committee membership 5,000 15,000 1 New members only.
2 Including payments to Chairmen of other Committees who are members.
3 Where individual was not Chairman of another Committee.
4 During 2016, the fee for Chairmanship of the Responsible Business Committee increased from 30,000 to 40,000.
Non-Executive Directors may receive more than one of the above fees.
Remuneration outcome for 2016 Executive directors audited The following table summarises the total remuneration delivered during 2016 in relation to service as an Executive Director.
2 Other remuneration payments comprise income from all employee share plans, which arises through employer matching or discounting of employee purchases.
3 The LTIP vesting and dividend equivalents awarded in shares were confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 15 February 2017.
The average share price between 1 October 2016 and 31 December 2016 58.30 pence has been used to indicate the value.
LTIP and dividend equivalent figures for 2015 have been adjusted for the share price on the date of vesting 72.75 pence.
4 Following changes to the amount of tax relief available on pension contributions in each year, Executive Directors may elect to receive some or all of their allowances as cash.
The breakdown of payments made in cash and contributions into the pension scheme are shown below.
5 In June 2015, the Group reached a settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA with regard to aspects of its Payment Protection Insurance PPI complaint handling process during the period March 2012 to May 2013.
As a result, the Committee decided to make performance adjustments in respect of bonuses awarded in 2012 and 2013 to the Group Executive Committee and some other senior executives given their ultimate oversight of the PPI operations.
The number of shares adjusted was 409,039 for the Group Chief Executive GCE, 109,464 for the Chief Financial Officer CFO and 376,055 for the Chief Risk Officer CRO pro-rated in the above table to reflect his appointment to Executive Director on 29 November 2013.
The share price used for the valuation was the market price for a share in the Group at the award dates, 49.29 pence and 78.878 pence, respectively.
Pension and benefits audited Antnio George Juan Pension Benefit Horta-Osrio Culmer Colombs Employer contribution to pension scheme 9,542 4,492 12,068 Cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution 558,018 181,862 172,711 Car or car allowance 12,000 12,183 12,000 Flexible benefits payments 42,440 29,376 28,968 Private medical insurance 30,950 760 14,068 Tax preparation 24,000 11,940 Transportation 33,760 2,900 101 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued Defined benefit pension arrangements audited The GCE has a conditional unfunded pension commitment, subject to share price performance.
This was a partial buy-out of a pension forfeited on joining from Santander Group.
It is an Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Scheme EFRBS.
The EFRBS provides benefits on a defined benefit basis at a normal retirement age of 65.
The EFRBS applies for a maximum of six years following the commencement of employment andthe maximum allowance over that period is 26.5 per cent of the higher of the GCEs base salary or reference salary in the 12 months before retirement or leaving, subject to performance conditions.
No additional benefit is due in the event of early retirement.
The rate of pension accrual in each year depends on share price conditions being met.
Accrual at 31 December 2016 is a pension of 6 per cent of the reference salary or 73,200.
No new pension entitlement was accrued in 2016.
There are no other Executive Directors with defined benefit pension entitlements.
Under terms agreed when joining the Group, the CRO is entitled to a conditional lump sum benefit of 718,996 either i on reaching normal retirement age unless the CRO voluntarily resigns or is dismissed for cause, or ii on leaving due to long-term sickness or death.
2014 LTIP vesting audited Number Number Indicative Indicative Indicative of shares of shares share price value of award dividend Indicative 1 awarded Vesting % vesting at vesting at vesting equivalent total value Antnio Horta-Osrio 4,640,077 55% 2,552,042 58.30 pence 1,487,840 95,940 1,583,780 George Culmer 2,510,205 55% 1,380,612 58.30 pence 804,897 51,902 856,799 Juan Colombs 2,234,780 55% 1,229,129 58.30 pence 716,582 46,207 762,789 1 For details of the performance outcome please refer to section Long-term awards made in March 2014 vesting for the period ended on 31 December 2016.
Annual bonus audited The individual bonus awards for Executive Directors are determined in the same way as for colleagues across the Group, with outcomes based onthe individual on-target award adjusted for the Group annual bonus outcome and for individual performance outcomes.
The Group total bonus outcome is the sum of the divisional and functional bonus outcomes.
Performance outcomes are determined by adjusting the Groups target bonus outcome according to Group underlying profit and Balanced Scorecard performance.
These are each used as a modifier to increase or decrease the target bonus outcome in the range of 0percent 145percent, subject to an overall funding limit of 10 per cent of pre-bonus underlying profit.
Acollective performance adjustment is then applied.
The individual on-target award is then adjusted for the Group annual bonus outcome and for individual performance outcomes.
Awards are approved by the Committee, which has discretion to adjust outcomes for any reason.
The approach to determining annual bonus awards is summarised below: Group target bonus outcome, modified subject to 1.
Balanced scorecard performance 50% Modify target bonus outcome from 0% 145% Bonus outcome for each division and function Sum of divisional and functional bonus outcomes Group's modified total bonus outcome 3.
Collective performance adjustment Group total bonus outcome Individual performance Subject to a limit of 10% of pre bonus underlying profit outcomes Individual bonus awards 102 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual bonus outcome for 2016 audited Illustration based on 2015 bonus outcome The target bonus outcome for 2016 397.1million was adjusted for: 1 Group underlying profit performance A target of 7,572 million was approved by the Board.
In line with regulatory requirements, the underlying profit of 7,867 million has been adjusted by the incremental movement in Prudential Valuation Adjustment PVA from year-end 2015 to year-end 2016.
The adjustment of 126 million reduces the underlying profit figure to 7,741 million, resulting in a modifier of 1.22.
Below threshold 0% Threshold 55% On-target 100% Maximum 145% UNDERLYING PROFIT | | | | Actual 7,741m 6,525m 6,525m 7,572m adjusted for 8,113m PVA 2 Balanced Scorecard performance Under 0% Developing 55% Good 100% Strong 125% Top 145% BALANCED SCORECARD | | | | | A balanced scorecard approach with clearly identified performance descriptors is used to assess Group performance in key areas.
Stretching objectives for each division and function were approved by the Committee around the start of the performance year.
The objectives are aligned tothe Groups strategy and split across five categories: customer, people, control environment, building the business and finance.
Approach to the Balanced Scorecard BSC Targets set Each measure in the Group and divisional functional BSC is assigned targets aligned Assigned to the five-point rating scale to a five-point rating scale.
BSC ratings are based on a scale ranging from Under at the lowest level, through Developing, Ratings determined by comparison Good, Strong and up to Top, which is the highest rating.
Each of these ratings may be further of results with targets differentiated by the addition of minus or plus.
The Committee reviewed performance in depth Overall Group rating was Strong plus todetermine ratings for the Group and each division and function, including consideration of risk matters arising in 2016.
Risk adjustments wereapproved by the Board Risk Committee.
The ratings for each division and function are communicated to all colleagues within the business area Modifier applied based to ensure bonus outcomes are transparent and understood.
The ratings are considered commercially upon rating sensitive: however, as an indication of performance, the overall rating for the Group as determined by Average modifier was 1.26 the Committee was Strong plus and the average of the divisional functional modifiers applied was 1.26.
Key performance factors considered by the Committee in arriving at the performance assessment for the Group included: Strong financial performance Underlying profit was 7.9 billion and statutory profit has more than doubled to 4.2 billion.
Despite an additional PPI provision and the challenging macroeconomic environment, the Group remains strongly capital generative with a pro forma CET1 ratio of 13.8 per cent after increased dividend.
Growth in the key customer The Group continued to make good progress in growing market share in areas where it is under represented, growing lending to SME clients and in consumer finance.
segments Lower risk bank Continued efforts to fide-risk the bank, combined with sustained improvements in core prudential risks capital, credit, funding and a customer centric culture are delivering a lower risk bank.
From a credit perspective, asset quality remained strong with no deterioration in the underlying portfolio.
Prudent risk appetite and robust risk management framework reflected in lower impaired loans and an improved impaired loan ratio.
Effective cost leadership Cost management remains a strategic priority and the acceleration of cost initiatives in response to the lower interest rate environment has enabled the Group to reduce operating costs by 3 per cent.
The market leading cost:income ratio also improved to 48.7 per cent.
Increased dividends Increased ordinary dividend of 2.55 pence per share in 2016 2015: 2.25 pence, in line with the Groups progressive and sustainable dividend policy.
Additional special dividend of 0.5 pence.
PRA stress test threshold The resilience of the Groups capital position was demonstrated again in 2016 when it comfortably exceeded the exceeded threshold for the latest PRA stress test and performed well compared to peers.
Customer focus in the Development and launch of the Customer Journey framework and strategy which will be the basis to manage the business Group and its control environment in a customer centric way.
Further reductions in the level of customer complaints.
Net promotor score continued to improve and is now nearly 50 per cent higher than at the end of 2011.
Culture and reputation Accelerated progress towards the desired culture, developing new Management Information, further embedding the Group Customer First Committee and the work to establish the Customer Journey strategy.
The Groups reputation with external stakeholders.
103 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued 3 Collective performance adjustment Consideration was given to items not factored into the Group underlying profit or divisional or functional Balanced Scorecards.
These included the provisions for legacy conduct-related matters relevant to the year.
As a result of these items, the Committee approved an overall collective adjustment of 91.2 million or approximately 19 per cent, resulting in a final bonus outcome of 392.9 million as shown in the table below.
The bonus outcome of 392.9 million is significantly below the overall funding limit of 10 per cent of pre bonus underlying profit.
Total bonus outcome 50.7m 91.2m 1.26 484.1m 19% 36.3m 1.22 397.1m 392.9m Adjusted based on 50% of each Target Group underlying profit Divisional functional Modified total outcome Collective performance Total bonus modifier performance modifier adjustment outcome weighted average of all divisions functions Individual outcomes for Executive Directors audited The individual bonus awards for Executive Directors are determined in the same way as for colleagues across the Group, with outcomes based onannual bonus outcome, weighted by: 1.
On-target award Awards are approved by the Committee, which has discretion to adjust outcomes for any reason.
Antnio Horta-Osrio The Group Chief Executives GCE individual performance assessment for 2016, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected the Groups performance as outlined on page 103 and a number ofother considerations including: Strong financial performance Improvement in market-leading cost:income ratio delivered, with statutory profit more than doubled and key balance sheet metrics strengthened.
Low risk business model Continued improvement in credit quality of lending portfolio, strong performance in 2016 PRA stress test.
maintained Increased dividends Increase in ordinary dividend to 2.55 pence per share 2015: 2.25 pence in line with the Groups progressive andsustainable dividend policy, with additional special dividend of 0.5 pence per share.
Strong employee Employee engagement survey results strengthened despite uncertain economic outlook and announcement engagement offurther role reductions scores significantly higher than UK benchmark and close to UK high-performing benchmark.
Creating the best Key Customer Journeys across retail and commercial banking and insurance significantly enhanced, leading customerexperience toimproved customer feedback and trust scores as well as complaints reducing from their low levels relative tothe sector.
Continued growth in With 12.5 million online and 8 million mobile banking customers, the Group operates the UKs largest digital bank, and now meets over 60 per cent of customers banking needs digitally.
digitalchannels Supporting the UK economy Remaining the largest lender to first-time buyers and maintaining the recent record of above-market growth inlending to SMEs.
Commitments to support communities and charities also exceeded.
and helping Britain prosper Leading the Groups strategic Lead Board and executive team in highly impactful exercise to review the impact of digital technology and market change on the Bank of the Future, enabling the Group to develop critically important plans for the evolution of its development business model and technology base.
UKFI reduction in Continued successful delivery of the Groups strategy enabling a significant reduction in the government  shareholding to less than 5 per cent.
UKFI no longer the Groups largest shareholder, with 18.5 billion now havingbeen returned to the UK taxpayer at a profit.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2016 of Strong plus for the GCE, an improvement fromStrong in 2015.
104 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Expected outcomes are based on individual performance before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Group BSC, asfollows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 42% 91% 140% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and Group BSC objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 19percent and the improvement to the individual rating of Strong plus, the Committee determined a 2016 bonus award for the GCE of 1,219,537 108 per cent of salary and 77percent of maximum.
George Culmer The Chief Financial Officers CFO personal performance assessment for 2016, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number ofconsiderations including: Strong financial performance Strong financial performance delivered in challenging low interest rate and volatile market environment key liquidity, funding and capital metrics either strengthened or maintained.
Cost leadership Continued improvement in the Groups market-leading cost:income ratio to 48.7 per cent 2015: 49.3 per cent efficiency programme successfully accelerated in response to customers changing preferences.
Strong capital generation Groups pro forma CET1 capital ratio of 13.8 per cent comfortably above regulatory requirements after increased ordinary dividend of 2.55 pence per share and an additional special dividend of 0.5 pence per share.
Resilient business model Stressed CET1 capital and leverage ratios of 10.3 per cent and 4.3 per cent from 2016 regulatory PRA stress test comfortably above regulatory requirements and strongest across major UK banking peers.
Successful outcome of Successful outcome of ECN enhanced capital notes court case enabling the Group to improve the efficiency ECNcourt case of its balance sheet and reduce funding costs.
Well managed external Well-managed relationships with key external stakeholders, e. g. debt and equity investors, regulators, and credit rating agencies.
stakeholder relations Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2016 of Strong plus for the CFO.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Finance divisions BSC, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 30% 65% 100% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and the Finance divisions BSC objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 19percent and the individual rating of Strong plus, the Committee determined a 2016 bonus award for the CFO of 574,326 77percent of maximum.
Juan Colombs The Chief Risk Officers CRO personal performance assessment for 2016, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Strong risk management The Group remains comfortably within risk appetite set by the Board, with strengthened processes and controls, aligning to the Groups objective of being a low risk bank.
framework Strengthened management Management of operational risk strengthened through the development of a robust control framework for key risk categories.
ofoperational risk Credit quality Prudent lending criteria reflected in credit quality across all lending portfolios and reduced gross impairment charges.
Low risk culture and Low risk culture and effective controls reflected in very low level of financial losses following EU Referendum result and other periods of market volatility.
effectivecontrols Effective optimisation of Effective optimisation of balance sheet leading to further reductions in risk-weighted assets RWAs in turn supporting capital generation.
balance sheet Low risk model recognised Groups low risk model recognised by the market: tight credit default swap CDS spreads and resilient credit ratings confer tangible funding cost benefits to the Group.
bythe market Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2016 of Strong plus for the CRO.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance, before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Risk divisions BSC, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 30% 65% 100% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and the Risk divisions BSC objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 19percent and the individual rating of Strong plus, the Committee determined a 2016 bonus award for the CRO of 577,676 78percent of maximum.
105 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued Deferral The 2016 annual bonus for all Executive Directors is awarded in a combination of cash and shares.
40percent of the annual bonus will be released in 2017 2,000 cash in March, the remainder in shares, 40percent will be released in 2018 and the remaining 20percent will be released in 2019, subject to remaining in the Groups employment.
Any shares released are subject to a further holding period in line with regulatory requirements.
Performance period Annual Bonus 20% 10% held for For the 2016 6 months performance period 40% 20% held for 6 months 40% 20% held for 6 months 2016 2017 2018 2019 The Groups malus and clawback provisions cover all material risk takers, in line with regulatory requirements.
Vested variable remuneration can be recovered from employees for a period of up to seven years after the date of award which may be extended to 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in reducing any payment that otherwise would have been earned, if it deems appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Long-term awards made in March 2014 vesting for the period ended on 31December 2016 audited Awards in the form of conditional rights to free shares in 2014 were made over shares with a value of 300 per cent of reference salary for the GCE and 275 per cent of salary for the CFO and CRO.
The Group has delivered a robust financial performance over the performance period of the 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards, continuing to transform the business for the benefit of our shareholders.
Performance was measured over three financial years ended 31December2016.
Executive Directors are required to retain any shares vesting for a further two years post vesting.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive versus the wider employee population Figures for All Employees are calculated using figures for UK-based colleagues subject to the Group Annual Bonus Plan.
This population isconsidered to be the most appropriate group of employees for these purposes because its remuneration structure is consistent with that oftheGCE.
For 2016, 46,963 colleagues were included in this category.
% change in % change in % change in base salary bonus benefits 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 1 2 GCE 8.4% 44% 2% 3 3 3 All employees 2% 17% 2% 1 2 per cent delivered in cash in line with other colleagues the remainder in shares.
2 The performance rating for the GCE improved from Strong in 2015 to Strong plus in 2016.
3 Adjusted for movements in staff numbers and other impacts to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
106 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Relative spend on pay m The graph below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay total remuneration of all Group employees compared with distributions to shareholders.
Distributions to shareholders are ordinary and special dividends.
1 Dividend Salaries and 2 m performance-based compensation m 2016 10.9% 2,175 2016 1% 3,245 2015 1,962 2015 3,217 1 2016: Ordinary and special dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016, partly paid in 2016 and partly to be paid in 2017.
2015: Ordinary and special dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015, partly paid in 2015 and partly paid in 2016.
2 In addition to the annual bonus of 392.9 million awarded in respect of 2016 performance, the Group made Group Ownership Share awards of 47.6 million and paid approximately 84 million under variable pay arrangements used to incentivise customer-facing colleagues, primarily in the Retail division.
Loss of office payments and payments within the reporting year to past Directors audited There were no payments for the loss of office or any other payments made to former Directors during 2016.
External appointments held by the Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio During the year ended 31December 2016, the Group Chief Executive served as a Non-Executive Director of Exor, Fundao Champalimaud, Stichting INPAR and Sociedade Francisco Manuel dos Santos for which he received fees of 217,098 in total.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Fees 000 Taxable benefits 000 Total 000 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Chairman and current Non-Executive Directors 1 1 Lord Blackwell 714 700 12 12 726 712 Alan Dickinson 195 144 195 144 Anita Frew 295 236 295 236 Simon Henry 135 105 135 105 Nick Luff 165 135 165 135 Deborah McWhinney 135 9 135 9 Nick Prettejohn 412 350 412 350 Stuart Sinclair 135 135 Anthony Watson 230 209 230 209 Sara Weller 171 135 171 135 Former Non-Executive Directors Carolyn Fairbairn retired October 2015 88 88 Dyfrig John retired May 2016 49 105 49 105 Total 2,636 2,216 12 12 2,648 2,228 1 Car allowance.
Breakdown of Non-Executive Directors fees 000s Senior Deputy Independent Audit Remuneration Board Risk SWG Other 2016 1 Board fee Chairman Director Committee Committee Committee Board fees Committees Total 2 Alan Dickinson 75 30 30 60 195 2,3 Anita Frew 75 100 30 60 30 295 Simon Henry 75 30 30 135 Dyfrig John 27 11 11 49 2 Nick Luff 75 60 30 165 Deborah McWhinney 75 30 30 135 Nick Prettejohn 75 30 30 277 412 Stuart Sinclair 75 30 30 135 4 Anthony Watson 75 60 30 30 30 5 230 5 Sara Weller 75 30 30 36 171 1 Scottish Widows Group Limited.
2 Due to their role as Chairmen of other Board Committees, Alan Dickinson, Anita Frew and Nick Luff do not receive any fees for their membership of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
3 As Deputy Chairman, Anita Frew does not receive any fee for membership of the Responsible Business Committee.
107 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued Historical total shareholder return TSR performance The chart below shows the historical TSR of Lloyds Banking Group plc compared with the FTSE 100 as required by the regulations, rebased as at 31December 2008.
The FTSE 100 index has been chosen as it is a widely recognised equity index of which Lloyds Banking Group plc has been aconstituent throughout this period.
Total shareholder return indices Lloyds Banking Group and FTSE 100 Lloyds return index FTSE 100 return index Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2008.
Source: Kepler Historical Group Chief Executive GCE remuneration outcomes GCE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 J E Daniels 1,121 2,572 855 GCE single figure of remuneration 000 Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,765 3,398 7,475 11,540 8,704 5,541 J E Daniels Waived 62% 0% Annual bonus payout % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio Waived 62% 71% 54% 57% 77% J E Daniels 0% 0% 0% Long-term incentive vesting % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio 0% 0% 54% 97% 94.18% 55% Notes: J E Daniels served as GCE until 28 February 2011: Antnio Horta-Osrio was appointed GCE from 1 March 2011.
J E Daniels declined to take a bonus in 2009 and Antnio Horta-Osrio declined to take a bonus in 2011.
Outstanding share awards Directors interests audited Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors were required to build up a holding in Lloyds Banking Group plc shares of value equal to 150percent of base salary 200percent for the GCE within three years from the later of 1 January 2012 or their date of joining the Board.
Following the introduction of thefixed share award in 2014, the gross annual value of this award was added to salary to determine the personal shareholding requirement.
For the purposes of assessing the additional shareholding requirement related to the fixed share award, Executive Directors had up to three yearsfrom 1 January 2014 to build up the additional shareholding created by the addition of the fixed share award.
As at 31December 2016, allExecutive Directors significantly exceeded the requirements.
In order to provide greater transparency in the measurement of the shareholding requirements, from 1 January 2017 the measure is to be focused on base salary only.
There will be a consequent increase in the percentage required as a multiple of salary: however the number of shares required to be held will remain approximately the same.
The new requirements are 350 per cent of base salary for the GCE and 250 per cent of base salary for the other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are required to retain any shares vesting from 2014 LTIP awards onwards for a further two years post vesting although vested shares count towards the shareholding requirement immediately after vesting.
108 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1 Number of shares Number of options Total shareholding Value Expected value Unvested Unvested at subject to Unvested subject to Totals at Totals at 31 December Owned continued subject to continued Vested 31 December 21February 2016 2 outright employment performance employment unexercised 2016 2017 000s Executive Directors 3 6 Antnio Horta-Osrio 17,893,726 4,212,594 14,234,293 29,549 36,370,162 36,370,757 18,286 6 George Culmer 10,547,315 1,253,398 7,754,781 29,549 19,585,043 19,585,562 9,819 6 Juan Colombs 6,362,996 1,209,441 7,406,515 29,109 15,008,061 15,008,580 7,067 Non-Executive Directors 6 Lord Blackwell 100,000 100,000 n a n a 6 Alan Dickinson 200,000 200,000 n a n a 6 Anita Frew 450,000 450,000 n a n a 6 Simon Henry 200,000 200,000 n a n a 4 6 Dyfrig John 27,385 27,385 n a n a 6 Nick Luff 400,000 400,000 n a n a 3 6 Deborah McWhinney 250,000 250,000 n a n a 5 6 Nick Prettejohn 69,280 69,280 n a n a 6 Stuart Sinclair n a n a 6 Anthony Watson 576,357 576,357 n a n a 6 Sara Weller 340,000 340,000 n a n a 1 Including holdings of connected persons.
2 Awards subject to performance under the LTIP had an expected value of 50 per cent of face value at grant in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Values are based on the 31 December 2016 closing price of 62.51 pence.
Full face value of awards are 22,734,988 for Antnio Horta-Osrio, 12,242,610 for George Culmer and 9,381,538 for Juan Colombs.
3 Shareholdings held by Antnio Horta-Osrio and Deborah McWhinney are either wholly or partially in the form of ADRs.
4 Shares held as at date of retirement.
5 In addition, Nick Prettejohn held 400 6.475% preference shares at 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016.
6 The changes in beneficial interests for Antnio Horta-Osrio 595 shares, George Culmer 519 shares and Juan Colombs 519 shares relate to partnership and matching shares acquired under the Lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan between 31 December 2016 and 21 February 2017.
There have been no other changes up to 21 February 2017.
A summary of transactions undertaken in the year, including share plan awards vested plus open market purchases and sales made by Directors, isshown on page 111.
As a result of the above shareholdings, the position for each Executive Director is as follows: New shareholding Current shareholding 2016 Shareholding requirement from based on new requirement Current shareholding 1January 2017 requirement Base salary % of base % of base plus fixed salary plus salary plus Number of Old New share award fixed share Number of fixed share shares as at requirement % of base Number of % of base requirement 1 1 2 1 000s award shares award 31 12 16 met salary shares1 salary met Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio 2,025 200% 6,560,829 545% 17,891,894 Yes 350% 6,917,220 905% Yes George Culmer 1,253 150% 3,044,925 519% 10,545,483 Yes 250% 3,094,403 852% Yes Juan Colombs 1,236 150% 3,002,634 318% 6,361,547 Yes 250% 3,051,426 521% Yes 1 Number of shares required and current shareholding percentage of base salary plus fixed share award figures are calculated using the average share price for the period 1 January 2016 to 31December 2016 61.73 pence.
2 Includes shares owned outright reduced by forfeitable matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
None of those who were Directors at the end of the year had any other interest in the capital of Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 72.75 pence.
Shares vested are subject to a further two-year holding period.
2 2013 LTIP award was eligible to receive an amount equal in value to any dividends paid during the performance period.
Dividend equivalents have been paid based on the number of shares vested and have been paid in shares.
The dividend equivalent shares were paid on 7 March 2016.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 72.75pence.
The dividend equivalent shares are not subject to any holding period.
3 All LTIPs have performance periods ending 31December at the end of the three-year period.
Awards were made in the form of conditional rights to free shares.
4 Awards in the form of conditional rights to free shares in 2016 were made over shares with a value of 300percent of reference salary for Antnio Horta-Osrio 5,015,210 shares with a face value of 3,660,000 : 275percent for George Culmer 2,767,409 shares with a face value of 2,019,600 : and 275percent for Juan Colombs 2,728,973 shares with a face value of 1,991,550.
The share price used to calculate face value is the average price over the five days prior to grant 1 March to 7 March 2016, which was 72.978 pence.
This was the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
Performance conditions for this award have been disclosed in last years annual report on remuneration page 91.
5 Bonus is deferred into shares.
The face value of the share awards in respect of bonuses granted in March 2016 was 849,649 1,164,253 shares for Antnio Horta-Osrio: 461,846 632,856shares for George Culmer: and 455,431 624,065 shares for Juan Colombs.
The share price used to calculate the face value is the average price over the five days prior to grant 1March to 7March 2016, which was 72.978 pence.
6 Share buy-out award granted on 30 March 2011 for the loss of deferred share awards forfeited on leaving the Santander Group.
Awards are consistent with those forfeited and have a nil option price.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 70.63 pence.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 69.64 pence.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 71.34 pence.
10 Sharesave options granted on 10 October 2016.
The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options was 391,270.
None of the other Directors at 31December 2016 had options to acquire shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
110 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors interests summary of awards vested, purchases and sales made by directors in 2016 unaudited Holding at 1 January 2016 Holding at or appointment Transactions Number of 31December date during the year shares Notes 2016 Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio 11,761,072 08 03 2016 3,706,439 Vesting of 2013 LTIP 08 03 2016 69,239 Dividend equivalent shares paid on 2013 LTIP 16 03 2016 173,707 Fixed Share Award 18 03 2016 8,256 Salary for shares 18 04 2016 2,803 Salary for shares 16 05 2016 1,437,096 Release of 2012 Deferred Bonus 16 05 2016 2,873 Salary for shares 06 06 2016 22,156 2013 Sharesave 17 06 2016 2,920 Salary for shares 17 06 2016 184,317 Fixed Share Award 28 06 2016 100,000 Share purchase 18 07 2016 3,377 Salary for shares 17 08 2016 3,482 Salary for shares 19 09 2016 3,330 Salary for shares 19 09 2016 210,206 Fixed Share Award 18 10 2016 3,549 Salary for shares 16 11 2016 3,069 Salary for shares 14 12 2016 2,994 Salary for shares 14 12 2016 189,000 Fixed Share Award Monthly 3,841 Share Incentive Plan purchase and matching shares 17,893,726 George Culmer 7,090,093 08 03 2016 295,534 Release of 2013 Deferred Bonus 08 03 2016 2,005,122 Vesting of 2013 LTIP 08 03 2016 37,457 Dividend equivalent shares paid on 2013 LTIP 16 03 2016 97,276 Fixed Share Award 19 05 2016 210,244 Dividend Reinvestment 02 06 2016 22,156 2013 Sharesave 17 06 2016 103,218 Fixed Share Award 30 06 2016 50,000 Share purchase 19 09 2016 295,534 Release of 2013 Deferred Bonus 19 09 2016 117,715 Fixed Share Award 28 09 2016 113,779 Dividend Reinvestment 14 12 2016 105,840 Fixed Share Award Monthly 3,347 Share Incentive Plan purchase and matching shares 10,547,315 Juan Colombs 3,145,458 08 03 2016 44,355 Release of 2012 Deferred Bonus 08 03 2016 277,981 Release of 2013 Deferred Bonus 08 03 2016 1,785,116 Vesting of 2013 LTIP 08 03 2016 33,347 Dividend equivalent shares paid on 2013 LTIP 16 03 2016 282,898 Exercise of Share buy out 16 03 2016 95,924 Fixed Share Award 17 06 2016 101,784 Fixed Share Award 30 06 2016 50,000 Share purchase 19 09 2016 44,355 Release of 2012 Deferred Bonus 19 09 2016 277,981 Release of 2013 Deferred Bonus 19 09 2016 116,080 Fixed Share Award 14 12 2016 104,370 Fixed Share Award Monthly 3,347 Share Incentive Plan purchase and matching shares 6,362,996 111 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued Holding at 1 January 2016 Transactions Holding at or appointment during Number of 31December date the year shares Notes 2016 Non-Executive Directors Lord Blackwell 50,000 05 05 2016 50,000 Share purchase 100,000 Alan Dickinson 100,000 29 06 2016 100,000 Share purchase 200,000 Anita Frew 300,000 29 06 2016 150,000 Share purchase 450,000 Simon Henry 100,000 30 06 2016 100,000 Share purchase 200,000 3 Dyfrig John 27,385 27,385 Nick Luff 300,000 29 06 2016 100,000 Share purchase 400,000 4 Deborah McWhinney 200,000 29 06 2016 50,000 Share purchase 250,000 Nick Prettejohn 26 02 2016 69,280 Share purchase 69,280 Stuart Sinclair Anthony Watson 476,357 29 06 2016 100,000 Share purchase 576,357 Sara Weller 200,000 04 05 2016 100,000 Share purchase 29 06 2016 40,000 Share purchase 340,000 1 After the settlement of tax and National Insurance contributions, where applicable.
2 Part of Antnio Horta-Osrio's 2016 salary increase was delivered in shares.
3 Shares held as at date of retirement.
Additional disclosures 1 Total remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executives The following table sets out the total remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executives excluding Executive Directors in respect of the 2016 performance year.
2 Values shown reflect awards for which the performance period ended on 31 December 2016, including the 2014 LTIP and 2014 Commercial Banking Transformation Plan.
Dividend equivalents are included where applicable.
3 Pension costs based on a percentage of salary according to level.
Total remuneration of employees across the Group 1 Total remuneration Number of employees 0 to 100,000 73,415 100,001 to 500,000 4,432 500,001 to 1,000,000 145 Above 1,000,000 58 1 Total remuneration of UK-based colleagues.
Includes base salary, bonus awards for the 2016 performance year, the estimated values of LTIP and Commercial Banking Transformation Plan awards for the performance period ended 31 December 2016 including dividend equivalents where applicable, pension and benefits.
112 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Committee Committee purpose and responsibilities The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management andmaterial risk takers.
The Committees purpose is to consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group thatisaligned with its long-term business strategy, its business objectives, its risk appetite, values and the long-term interests of the Group thatrecognisesthe interests of relevant stakeholders.
The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
com our-group corporate-governance The Directors who served on the Committee during the year and their attendance at Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Remuneration Committee meetings Eligible to attend Attended Committee Chairman Anita Frew 7 7 Committee members who served during 2016 Lord Blackwell 7 7 Alan Dickinson 7 7 1 Stuart Sinclair 7 7 2 Anthony Watson 7 6 Sara Weller 7 7 Former members who served during 2016 3 Dyfrig John 3 3 1 Joined the Committee on 4 January 2016.
2 Anthony Watson was unable to attend the Committee meeting in May 2016 due to a prior commitment.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors from a wide background to provide a balanced and independent view on remuneration matters.
Stuart Sinclair was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Committee on 4January 2016.
DyfrigJohn retired as an independent Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Committee on 11 May 2016.
How Committee meetings are run The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis on which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on page 62, with a structure which facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure adequate time for members of the Committee to consider proposals which are put forward.
During 2016, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
Matters considered by the Committee The Committee had seven scheduled meetings during 2016 to consider the following principal matters: Review of remuneration arrangements for senior executives: Determination of 2015 bonus outcome based on divisional and functional performance and adjustment for risk: Review of the Balanced Scorecard for the determination of 2016 bonuses in divisions and functions: Vesting of the 2013 long-term incentive plan LTIP : Performance conditions for the 2016 LTIP: Bonus and salary awards for Executive Directors and key senior managers: Performance adjustments in respect of staff, in relation to risk matters in its purview: Feedback from the Committee Chairman on her meetings with the PRA and shareholders: Review of services and consideration of a number of advisors with subsequent appointment of Kepler, a brand of Mercer Kepler : Results of the Remuneration Committee effectiveness review and the suggestions for improvement: Variable remuneration and simplification of reward principles: Approval of the 2015 and 2016 Directors remuneration report for publication within the annual report and Form 20-F: Review and approval of material risk taker identification and approval of the Remuneration Policy Statement: and Remuneration governance in the light of regulatory changes.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee met on a number of other occasions to allow the Directors greater time to discuss their views and for an in-depth review of key areas including this year the review of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee appoints independent consultants to provide advice on specific matters according to their particular expertise.
In May 2016, theCommittee conducted a review of their independent advisers and appointed Kepler to advise the Committee following acompetitive tendering process.
Kepler has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and is judged by the Committee to be independent.
Kepler is not connected with the Group.
Keplers fees for services to the Committee in 2016 were on a time andmaterials basis and amounted to 175,400.
Kepler did not provide any other services to the Group.
Mercer provides unrelated advice regarding pensions and investments to the Group.
113 Governance Directors' remuneration report continued The Committee has not formally evaluated Keplers performance since their appointment in mid-2016.
A review is due to be undertaken in early 2017.
Deloitte LLP, independent consultants to the Committee since 2010, provided advice for the first five months of the year.
Deloitte LLP is not connected with the Group.
Deloittes fees for services to the Committee in 2016 were on a time and materials basis and amounted to 240,800.
In addition, Deloitte LLP provided the Group with advice on taxation and other consulting services, and assurance services.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive, Simon Davies Chief People, Legal and Strategy Officer, Paul Hucknall People Director, Centres of Excellence, Chris Evans Director, Reward Policy and Partnering, Stuart Woodward Head of Reward Regulation and Governance and Matthew Elderfield Group Director, Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk until September 2016 and Letitia Smith thereafter provided guidance to the Committee other than for their own remuneration.
Juan Colombs Chief Risk Officer and George Culmer Chief Financial Officer also attended the Committee to advise as and when necessary onrisk and financial matters.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting The Groups remuneration policy, which was effective during 2016, was detailed within the Directors remuneration report for 2013 and voted on atthe 2014 AGM.
The remuneration awarded to the Executive Directors in 2015 was disclosed in last years annual report on remuneration and was voted on at the 2016 AGM.
The shareholder votes submitted at the meetings, either directly, by mail or by proxy, were as follows: Votes Votes cast in favour Votes cast against withheld Number of Number of Number of shares Percentage of shares Percentage of shares millions votes cast millions votes cast millions Remuneration policy 2014 vote 48,261 97.97% 999 2.03% 1,391 Annual report on remuneration 2016 vote 48,674 97.67% 1,163 2.33% 176 On behalf of the Board Anita Frew Chairman, Remuneration Committee 114 RISK MANAGEMENT All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Emerging risks 118 Capital stress testing 119 How risk is managed in Lloyds Banking Group 119 Risk governance 121 Full analysis of risk drivers 123 Further information on risk management can be found: Risk overview 26 Note 52: Financial risk management 261 Other information for an analysis of where Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF recommendations are disclosed 292 Pillar 3 Report: www.
com BOOSTING BRITAINS HOUSING STOCK AMA Home is one of many smaller construction businesses benefiting from our Housing Growth Partnership with the Government.
We have invested more than 30million through the Partnership and have a target to reach 1,500homes by 2017.
