London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors This robust performance has been delivered despite the accompanying global Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December market volatility and uncertainty in 2016 and whilst focused on completing the 2016.
The report includes our Remuneration Policy Report and proposed merger with Deutsche Brse.
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In our Capital Markets division, revenues increased 12% to 368.3 million Context 2015: 330.3 million and 134 new companies were admitted to our markets Our current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM in the year.
CurveGlobal, our new interest rate derivatives venture, has made a and is therefore up for renewal at our April 2017 AGM.
As a result of our proposed positive start since launching in September, offering genuine new competition merger with Deutsche Brse, we are currently operating in an unusual period as for the market and making portfolio margining available to a greater number of we focus on the transaction.
Our current Remuneration Policy has provided strong alignment between FY2016 income for Post Trade Services in Italy increased by 23% to 146.3 million executive remuneration and shareholders long-term interests and in light of the 2015: 119.1 million.
current transaction we are not intending to amend our policy at this stage as, should the transaction complete, the new policy would only be in operation for LCHs income for FY2016 was 447.1 million 2015: 360.7 million.
Having shared this proposed approach with our key saw a 25% increase in clearing volumes, clearing a total US$666 trillion for its shareholders and remuneration governance bodies, I am grateful for their members and their clients.
LCH Spider, a new open access portfolio margining feedback and support for our proposed approach.
service for interest rate derivatives, went live in May 2016.
Should the envisaged merger with Deutsche Brse proceed, a new Remuneration Our Information Services divisions revenue for FY2016 was 594.7 million Policy for the new company will be developed through consultation with 2015: 517.4 million, within which FTSE Russell has continued to perform shareholders.
As proposed Remuneration Committee Chair for the new merged strongly with a 17% increase in revenue to 409.3 million 2015: 348.9 million.
company, I am mindful of market developments and corporate governance best We are already seeing positive results from the integration of the two index practice and am attentive to shareholder views when setting and evaluating businesses with new mandates, integrated sales systems and a growing global ongoing remuneration principles.
If the transaction is successful, the new business.
In November we announced the acquisition of Mergent Inc. a leading company intends to convene an EGM in 2017 and seek approval for a new provider of business and financial information on public and private companies, Remuneration Policy.
In the event that the merger does not take place, we will which will support the growth of FTSE Russells core index offering.
review our Remuneration Policy for operation in 2018 to consider any market best practice.
FY2016 revenues for the Technology division were 88.3 million 2015: 80.6 million.
The Groups technology companies, including MillenniumIT and GATElab, have Performance and pay outcomes in the year continued to develop partnerships with exchange operators around the world The Committee continues to place great importance on ensuring that there is a including an ultra low-latency access gateway to the National Stock Exchange clear link between pay and performance, including adherence to the Groups of India.
Risk framework, and that our remuneration outcomes are reflective of this wider context.
The Group has achieved a strong financial and operational performance with growth and investment across all of our core businesses, delivering on a number of new initiatives and developing our customer partnership approach.
Total income from continuing operations rose to 1,657.1 million, up 17%.
Adjusted operating profit increased 17% to 685.8 million and operating profit increased 6% to 426.8 million.
70 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Bonus outcomes for Executive Directors David has also been outstanding in his handling of the transaction with Deutsche As a result of the Groups performance and individual performance, the Committee Brse to date.
In conjunction with the transaction, the proposed disposal of LCH determined that the Executive Directors will be awarded bonuses of between 89% SA, LCH Groups French-regulated operating subsidiary, to Euronext N. V. is and 91% of their maximum opportunity.
expected to be achieved at a very satisfactory valuation conditional on the successful closing of the merger.
Share plan vesting 94.45% of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made in 2013 vested during In light of his contribution and in recognition of the scale, scope and responsibilities 2016.
AEPS increased from 97.0 pence FY to end March 2013 to 129.4 pence of the Chief Financial Officers role, the Committee has decided to increase his salary FY2015 over the period to the end of December 2015, resulting in 88.9% of the from 465,000 to 488,000 5% increase.
David did not receive a salary increase in AEPS element vesting.
TSR more than doubled over the period to June 2016, FY2016 and has received one salary increase since his appointment in 2012. resulting in 100% of the TSR element vesting.
The Committee has decided to increase the salary of Raffaele Jerusalmi, Chief As shown in our Single total figure of remuneration table, the TSR element of the Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of Capital Markets from 510,000 to LTIP awards made in 2014 is currently expected to vest in full, while the AEPS 520,000 2% increase, which is below the average employee increases of 2.5%.
element is expected to vest at 83.7% of the maximum.
Raffaele has delivered a solid performance and continued to promote innovation During 2016, a significant number of our employees including for the first-time and drive growth in spite of difficult macro-economic events.
For example, the participants in Hong Kong and the US derived considerable benefit from the rebranded Turquoise Plato Block Discovery and Turquoise Plato Uncross platforms maturity of our 2013 Sharesave scheme, with an almost fourfold share price have demonstrated strong growth throughout the year with record trading growth during this period.
The 2016 Sharesave invitation saw the Group sustain volumes.
In fixed income our footprint in two of the worlds high-growth participation in excess of 50% across all regions and pay levels.
economies, China and India, has been deepened.
Salary review for Executive Directors There is no change to the salary of Xavier Rolet, the Chief Executive Officer.
During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of the base salary levels of our Executive Directors.
LTIP awards to be made in 2017 LTIP awards to be granted in 2017 will be granted under our 2014 shareholderAt the same time as making progress on the highly complex proposed merger with approved plan.
Deutsche Brse, numerous new products, services and initiatives have been launched including CurveGlobal, LCH Spider, Turquoise Plato and SwapAgent.
There has also David Warren will be granted a LTIP award of 300% of salary in 2017, reflecting his been ongoing M&A activity in pursuit of incremental products and services such as critical role in the Group and his valuable contribution.
It will provide strong the Mergent Inc. acquisition.
alignment to the performance of the Group.
David Warren has been an exemplary Group CFO since he joined in mid-2012 Operation of 2017 annual bonus and helped deliver significant shareholder value growing the Group to a market The operation of the 2017 annual bonus will continue to be focused on financial capitalisation of 10 billion.
He has delivered superior results and, alongside the targets, strategic initiatives and personal contribution.
CEO, has been instrumental in the Groups success and execution of the ambitious global expansion strategy, achieved despite markets of unprecedented volatility and a challenging geopolitical environment.
David has led the focus on cost discipline while investing for growth, focusing on new opportunities and achieving the benefits of recent acquisitions.
For example, targeted delivery of annual run rate cost synergies of $78 million and run rate revenue synergies of $30 million related to the integration of the FTSE-Russell indexes are on track to be achieved ahead of schedule.
Increase in shareholder value 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Dec Dec Dec 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 2016 LSEG FTSE 100 71 Total Return rebased Apr-09 100 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of key executive remuneration decisions Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Director of Capital Markets Name Xavier Rolet David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi Previous salary 800,000 465,000 510,000 with effect from 1 April 2016 Annual salary 800,000 0% 488,000 5% 520,000 2% with effect from 1 April 2017 Bonus for % of salary 205% of salary 183% of salary 179% of salary financial year ending % of maximum 91% 91% 89% 31 December 2016 total amount 1,643,000 849,000 910,000 Of which 50% 821,500 424,500 455,000 1 is deferred Max.
bonus opportunity 225% 200% 200% % of salary LTIP award subject 300% of Salary 2,400,000 300% of Salary 1,464,000 Sterling equivalent of 275% to performance See section below See section below of Salary 1,430,000 at prevailing fx rate at time of grant Note: 1.
A ll Executive Directors meet the Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR, so will be able to elect whether to defer 100% into shares, or 100% into cash, or 50% into shares and 50% into cash.
Any deferral into shares will be disclosed at a later date once confirmed.
Departure arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer As has been announced, should the merger with Deutsche Brse complete, Xavier Rolet will step down from his role as Chief Executive Officer and Director of LSEG plc.
His departure terms have been discussed with our key investor governance bodies and we are grateful for their feedback.
All terms are in accordance with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy and are detailed on page 86.
As it is not yet known whether the merger will proceed, Xavier will be granted a conditional LTIP award of 300% of salary in 2017, consistent with previous years.
Should the merger complete, this LTIP would be waived upon completion.
Should the merger not proceed, Xavier will continue to be aligned with the long-term performance of the Group and the incentive arrangements of his Executive Committee.
Concluding remarks The Committee continues to ensure the Groups approach to remuneration takes into account best practice and market trends in the financial services sector and wider market while continuing to support the commercial needs of the Group, the interests of shareholders and of all other stakeholders.
We look forward to your support for these proposals at the forthcoming AGM.
Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 March 2017 72 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, and the relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
This years disclosure has been split into two sections: Remuneration Policy Report The Remuneration Policy Report was subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and was passed with 95% support.
As explained in the Chairmans Statement above, as a result of our proposed merger with Deutsche Brse we are not proposing any changes to our policy at this time, save for minor amendments.
The Policy Report is presented for approval at our 2017 AGM and is set out on pages 74 81.
If the transaction is successful, the new company will seek approval for a new Remuneration Policy.
In the event that the merger does not take place, we will review our Remuneration Policy for operation in 2018 to consider any market best practice.
Annual Report on Remuneration pages 82 95 This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have been operated during the past financial year 12 months from January to December 2016, and also provides details on how we intend to operate our policy during the coming year FY2017.
This report will be put to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
The Annual Report on Remuneration includes detail on the departure terms for the Chief Executive Officer, which are subject to the completion of the merger with Deutsche Brse, and on his remuneration arrangements should the transaction not complete page 86.
Change in financial year As previously disclosed the Group migrated its financial year in 2014 to align with the calendar year from 1 January 2015.
The Committee carefully considered the impact of the change in financial year on the Groups remuneration framework and when making remuneration decisions.
The Annual Report on Remuneration includes detail on such in relation to decisions that will be taken in 2017, specifically with regard to the vesting of the LTIPs granted in 2014.
73 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report This Remuneration Policy Report was subject to a binding shareholder vote Element SALARY at the 2014 AGM and was approved with 95% of the votes.
Accordingly, it had binding effect on the Company from that date.
In light of the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, this Policy Report represents a rollover of that policy, with Provides a core element of remuneration which Purpose minor amendments, and is presented for approval at our 2017 AGM.
Our executive reflects the responsibilities of the role.
and link remuneration arrangements will be thoroughly reviewed during 2017, depending to strategy on the outcome of the proposed merger.
We are attentive to shareholder views Enables the recruitment and retention of individuals of the calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
when setting and evaluating ongoing remuneration principles and, as such, the Remuneration Committee of the new company will be consulting with shareholders during this process.
If the transaction is successful, the new Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by Operation taking into account a range of factors, including: Company intends to convene an EGM in 2017 and seek approval for a new Remuneration Policy.
In the event that the merger does not take place, we will size and scope of the role: review our Remuneration Policy for operation in 2018 to consider any market skills and experience of the individual: best practice.
market competitiveness relative positioning: Current policy table for Executive Directors performance of the Group and of the individual: A summary of the key elements of remuneration for Executive Directors is shown wider market and economic conditions: and in the following table.
level of increases being made across the Group.
The remuneration policy is designed to support the long-term interests of the Any changes are normally effective from 1 April Company.
The Group is committed to paying for performance, rewarding the senior each year.
management team only when its goals are achieved.
Each year the remuneration framework and the packages of the Executive Directors and members of the There is no defined maximum salary.
Maximum Executive Committee are reviewed by the Committee to ensure that they continue opportunity Increases are determined based on the factors to achieve this objective.
The Committee takes into account multiple reference described in the Operation column.
points when setting pay including companies in the FTSE 100, the broader Financial Services sector as well as other international exchange groups.
The Committees normal approach is to initially consider increases within the range awarded to other employees.
More significant increases may The Committee has taken the following areas into account in establishing the be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where Group remuneration policy: there is a significant change in the scale, scope or responsibility of a role, development within a role a focus on shareholder value: and or significant market movement.
the continued global expansion of the Group: The annual base salaries in FY2016 and FY2017 for each Executive Director are set out in the Annual the need to attract and retain senior management from the international Report on Remuneration.
finance and technology sectors: the Groups intent to be mindful of best practice as expressed by institutional n a Performance shareholders and their representative bodies: and measures the unique position of the Group at the heart of capital markets.
74 74 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Element BENEFITS RETIREMENT BENEFITS Provide local market competitive benefits and support the Provide Executives with retirement benefits.
and link Support recruitment and retention of high-calibre people.
to strategy Operation A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain Provision of annual pension allowance, invested in the Companys core benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income defined contribution plan or taken as a cash allowance.
protection and, additionally in Italy only, disability, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon vouchers together with in the UK In certain jurisdictions, more bespoke pension arrangements may a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on elective benefits be provided.
In such circumstances, the Committee will give such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
appropriate consideration to local employment legislation, market practices and the cost of the arrangement.
A chauffeur-driven motor car or car transportation may also be provided for Executive Directors where appropriate.
Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee reserves the right to provide our Executives with the appropriate level of security arrangements to allow them to perform their duties in the safest possible conditions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide reasonable additional benefits as appropriate for example, relocation and other allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for a finite period, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights back to the home country for the Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs are met by the Company if employment is terminated by the Company, other than for just cause.
Where necessary any benefits may be grossed up for taxes.
Executives are eligible to participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save As You Earn Option Scheme or international equivalent on the same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance and indemnification.
Maximum There is no defined maximum.
The maximum annual pension contribution cash allowance is 25% of salary except where determined by local opportunity Benefits plans are set at what are in the Committees opinion market practice.
reasonable levels in order to be market competitive for their local jurisdiction and are dependent on individual circumstances.
In Italy, Mr Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits which are calculated on salary, benefits and annual Participation in the Save As You Earn Option Scheme bonus.
Actual benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable or international equivalent is capped at the same level as Italian legislation in force from time to time.
Under the Italian all other participants, which is determined by the Company Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions within the parameters of applicable legislation.
which are funded by the Group at a rate fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis private pension plan.
TFR is calculated on salary, capped benefits, annual bonus and LTIP.
n a n a Performance measures 75 75 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Element ANNUAL BONUS LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 SHARE OWNERSHIP Rewards annual performance against challenging Incentivises performance over the longer term through Ensures alignment with Purpose financial, strategic and individual targets linked to the award of performance related shares.
to strategy Aligns reward with long-term, sustainable Group Deferral reinforces retention and enhances alignment performance and a focus on shareholder value.
with shareholders by encouraging longer-term focus and sustainable performance.
Operation The Group operates a Group-wide bonus pool which Under the LTIP 2014, which was approved by Executive Directors are is funded based on the achievement of financial and shareholders at the 2014 AGM, awards of shares or expected to build up strategic goals of the Group.
Allocations to individual equivalent are granted annually subject to performance share ownership over a Executive Directors are made from this pool based conditions.
period of five years and on the Committees assessment of their individual maintain holdings of at Awards normally vest subject to performance targets performance, taking into account the Groups financial least 2x base salary.
assessed over a performance period, normally of at least and strategic performance and the achievement of As stated in the bonus three financial years.
The Committee has discretion to any individual objectives related to their role.
section, bonus is set different performance periods if it considers them to deferred into shares be appropriate.
Performance targets are reviewed and set by the until the requirement Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The Committee shall determine the extent to which the performance measures have been met.
The Committee Awards are determined by the Committee after the may make adjustments to performance targets if an year end based upon the actual performance against event occurs that the Committee determines that an these targets.
The performance targets will be at least as challenging as the ones originally set.
The Committee applies judgement where necessary to Dividends or equivalents may be paid on vesting.
ensure approved pay-out levels are reflective of actual, Unvested awards are subject to a malus provision overall performance.
and vested awards are subject to clawback, as described below.
50% of the annual bonus will be subject to mandatory deferral, normally for a period of two years.
Until the minimum shareholding requirement see below is reached, bonus deferral will be 100% into shares.
Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals will be able to defer 100% into shares, 50% into shares 50% into cash or 100% into cash.
Dividends or equivalents may be paid in respect of deferred shares on vesting.
Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions as described below.
Paid bonuses and vested awards are subject to clawback as described below.
Maximum Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 225% of salary for Although there is a facility for maximum awards of up to CEO and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors for 400% of salary under the plan rules in exceptional cases, opportunity maximum performance.
it is expected that awards under this plan will normally be up to 300% of salary.
Based on a combination of financial e. g. adjusted The Committee determines performance targets each Performance operating profit, strategic and individual performance year to ensure that the targets are stretching and support measures targets.
Strategic objectives include key targets under value creation for shareholders while remaining the strategic pillars of developing our partnership motivational for management.
approach, driving global growth and delivering best in class capabilities.
These strategic objectives also Vesting of awards is subject to achievement of total impact financial results in the medium term.
shareholder return and financial performance targets.
For grants under this LTIP, awards are subject to absolute The Committee will set the detail and mix of performance TSR and adjusted EPS measures.
measures, targets and weighting based on the strategic objectives at the start of each year.
At least 50% of the Measures will normally be equally weighted but in any targets relating to the annual bonus pool in any year will event, any total shareholder return element will represent be subject to financial measures.
No bonuses are paid for below threshold performance.
For each performance element, achievement of the The Committee may award any amount between zero threshold performance level will result in no more than and 100% of the maximum opportunity.
25% of the maximum award paying out.
For achievement of the maximum performance level, 100% of the The performance measures are applied in the maximum pays out.
Normally, there is straight-line performance year only.
76 76 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Notes to the Policy Table Recruitment policy Selection of performance measures When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Performance targets are set by the Committee to be both stretching and Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: achievable, taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the economic landscape.
The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre required by the Group.
Consistent with the UK The performance measures that are used for our annual bonus and Long Term Corporate Governance Code, the Committee would intend to pay no more Incentive Plan LITP have been chosen to support the Groups strategy.
than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The ongoing remuneration package would normally include the key For the annual bonus plan, the Committee continues to believe that it is elements on the same terms as those set out in the policy table for appropriate to use a balance between financial targets, strategic objectives Executive Directors.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded on The Committee considers that the measures to be used for the LTIP, i. e. recruitment excluding any buy-outs referred to below is 625% of TSR and adjusted EPS, are currently the most appropriate measures of salary.
Incentive awards made in the first year of appointment may be long-term performance for the Group.
subject to different performance measures and targets appropriate to the newly recruited Executive Director.
Malus and clawback provisions Recognising that the Group competes for talent in the international financial A malus provision applies to awards granted under the 2014 LTIP and to unvested services sector, on an exceptional basis, the Committee has the ability to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This would allow the Committee in its include other elements of pay which it feels are appropriate taking into absolute discretion to determine, at any time prior to the vesting of an award, to account the specific commercial circumstances e. g. for an interim reduce, cancel or impose further conditions in certain circumstances, including appointment.
However, this would remain subject to the limit on variable i where there is a material misstatement or restatement of the results of the remuneration set out above.
The rationale for any such component would Group in its audited accounts, ii the negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of be appropriately disclosed.
the individual which results in significant reputational damage to the Group or which has a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group or the In addition, where an individual forfeits arrangements as a result of business opportunities of the Group, or iii if the individual is a member of a appointment, the Committee may offer a buy-out, in such form as the company in the Group which suffers significant reputational damage or material Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors adverse effect on its financial position or on its business opportunities.
which may include the vehicle, expected value and timing of forfeited opportunities.
Any such buy-out will be limited to the commercial value A clawback provision applies to vested awards granted under the 2014 LTIP, of payments and awards forfeited by the individual.
vested awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and annual bonuses paid previously.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate from their home This would allow the Committee in its absolute discretion to claw back from location to take up their role, the Committee may provide reasonable individuals some or all of the vested awards or paid bonus in certain circumstances, relocation assistance and other allowances including expatriate assistance.
including i if there is a material misstatement or restatement of the results of the Global relocation support normally for up to five years and any associated Group in its audited accounts, ii the negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of costs or benefits including but not limited to housing, school fees, tax the individual which results in significant reputational damage to the Group or a preparation and filing assistance and flights back to the home country material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group or the business may also be provided if business needs require it.
Should the Executives opportunities of the Group, or iii if the individual is a member of a company in the employment be terminated without cause by the Group, repatriation costs Group which suffers significant reputational damage or material adverse effect on will be met by the Group.
its financial position or on its business opportunities.
Clawback will normally apply for a period of three years following vesting of shares deferred cash bonus and or In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, legacy payment of bonus, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors see page 80 of the 2016 Annual Report.
77 77 77 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Service contracts and payments for departing Directors Treatment of variable incentives The Groups current policy is that Executive Directors service agreements should Annual bonus Individuals may be considered for an annual bonus have notice periods that are no longer than 12 months.
The Group may terminate in respect of the period prior to cessation.
Any award an Executive Directors service agreement by making a payment in lieu of notice would be at the discretion of the Committee, subject of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits allowance, life and to the Executive Directors performance and period of employment.
medical insurance but excluding bonus and share incentives plus any accrued unused holiday entitlement.
Consideration will be given to appropriate mitigation terms to reduce payments in lieu of notice made on termination in the event of Deferred Bonus For good leavers, awards vest at the normal vesting the Executive Director commencing alternative employment, being appointed date, although the Committee may determine that Plan 2014 awards vest on cessation of employment.
The award as a Non-Executive Director or providing services pursuant to a consultancy will usually vest in full or on a prorated basis at the agreement in the 12 months following the Executive Directors departure.
Good leavers are those who cease to be an employee of a member of the Group by reason The Group may pay an Executive Directors reasonable legal fees for receiving of death, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, the sale of the individuals employing business or the transfer advice in connection with their employment.
of the Company out of the Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having The lawful termination mechanisms described above are without prejudice to the regard to a range of relevant factors including the Groups ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach of the notice Executive Directors performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
period referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages to the Executive Director.
Liquidated damages clauses are not used.
Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
Where an individual In the event of termination by the Group, each Executive Director may have an is summarily dismissed, all his awards will lapse.
entitlement to compensation in respect of his statutory rights under employment Deferred awards are subject to malus and vested awards protection legislation in the UK and potentially elsewhere.
Directors and Officers are subject to clawback as detailed above.
liability insurance and an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the law and the Groups Articles of Association are provided to the Executive Directors for the duration of their employment and for a minimum of seven years Long-Term For good leavers, awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date and following the end of the following termination.
Incentive Plan performance period, unless the Committee 2014 determines that awards should vest following The Committee considers that this is consistent with current best practice and this cessation of employment.
Vesting will be subject to approach will generally be adopted for new appointments.
Where appropriate and performance and unless the Committee determines otherwise or that another basis of reduction is when recruiting non-UK based Directors, the Committee may agree different appropriate prorated for time in employment.
Good terms based on local legal requirements or market practice.
leavers are those who cease to be an employee of a member of the Group by reason of death, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, and the sale of the individuals employing business or transfer of the Company out of the Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard to a range of relevant factors including the Executive Directors performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
Unvested awards are subject to malus and vested awards are subject to clawback as detailed above.
7 7 78 8 8 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Detailed share plan provisions Raffaele Jerusalmi entered into a service agreement with Borsa Italiana on Share awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which 1 October 2001, amended on 3 May 2011, and a service agreement with the award has been granted.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards LSEG Holdings Italy on 3 May 2011, which reflects his period of continuous only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
This includes making service from 1 October 2001.
On 1 April 2013, Raffaele Jerusalmis employment adjustments to awards to reflect certain corporate events, including a variation contract transferred from LSEG Holdings Italy to LSEG Holdings Italia S. p. A. in the Companys share capital, a demerger or a special dividend.
In change of Raffaele Jerusalmis employment contracts with Borsa Italiana and LSEG Holdings control circumstances, all LTIP awards will normally vest on an accelerated basis Italia S. p. A. expressly state that no collective bargaining agreements apply to his subject to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied, and, unless employment and accordingly, the terms applying to the termination of his the Committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
Deferred Bonus awards employment are governed by Italian law.
If Raffaele Jerusalmi is dismissed, will normally vest in full.
The Committee may also allow some or all of an award his notice period will be equal to nine months from 2 October 2016 onwards.
to be exchanged if not yet vested.
If Raffaele Jerusalmi resigns, he is required to give three months notice.
On termination of either employment for any reason, Raffaele Jerusalmi is Individual terms entitled to severance payments under Italian law equal to: i Trattamento di Fine Xavier Rolet entered into a service agreement with the Group on 25 February Rapporto TFR which Raffaele Jerusalmi has elected to transfer to his private 2009 and was appointed with effect from 16 March 2009.
Xavier Rolets service pension plan on a monthly basis since August 2007.
He will therefore not be agreement can be terminated by either party giving not less than 12 months entitled to further TFR benefits post-employment.
The TFR contributions currently notice.
Alternatively, the Group may terminate the contract by making a payment equate to 7.407% including solidarity tax at the current rate of 0.5%, which does in lieu of notice of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits not count towards Raffaele Jerusalmis contributions to his private pension plan allowance, life and private medical insurance but excluding bonus and share of base salary, benefits, annual bonus and LTIP paid to Raffaele Jerusalmi during incentives paid in a lump sum or, at the Committees absolute discretion, paid in his employment: ii prorated supplementary monthly payments the annual 12 equal monthly instalments from the date of termination of the employment.
salary is normally paid in 12 instalments plus two supplementary monthly Alternatively, the Group may in its discretion continue to provide pension, payments : and iii a payment in lieu of untaken holidays, if any.
Where no life and private medical insurance for the 12 months following termination.
just cause for termination exists, a payment in lieu of notice is payable if the If the payment is made in instalments and Mr Rolet commences alternative employment is terminated with immediate effect.
The payment in lieu of notice employment, is appointed as a Non-Executive Director or provides services is in addition to the payments at i, ii and iii above and is equal to the overall pursuant to a consultancy agreement in the relevant period of 12 months salary due to Raffaele Jerusalmi during the notice period.
For these purposes, following his departure from the Group, the instalments will be reduced by overall salary includes base salary, average of any variable pay and TFR one-twelfth of the annual remuneration earned from the alternative employment, contributions paid during the last 36 months of the employment, and benefits directorship or consultancy.
On termination other than by reason of summary in kind.
dismissal Mr Rolet will be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the year in which his employment is terminated subject to company and individual performance.
Remuneration policy for other employees and consideration of wider employee remuneration David Warren entered into a service agreement with the Group on 11 June The remuneration policy for senior Executives and other employees is determined 2012 and was appointed with effect from 2 July 2012.
David Warrens service based on similar principles to Executive Directors.
For roles below the main Board, agreement may be terminated by either party giving at least 12 months notice.
the exact structure and balance are tailored based on various factors including Alternatively, the Group may terminate the contract by payment in lieu of notice the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, development within a role and or of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits allowance, life significant market movement.
The Committee reviews and comments on the and private medical insurance but excluding bonus and share incentives.
salary, bonus and LTIP awards of the senior Executives immediately below Board Any payment in lieu of notice will be paid in 12 equal monthly instalments from level and approves the overall design and distribution of incentive awards available the date of termination of the employment.
Alternatively, the Group may in its to all employees, including share-based plans.
discretion continue to provide pension and life and private medical insurance for the 12 months following termination.
Should Mr Warren commence alternative The approach in respect of base salary and benefits is generally consistent across employment, be appointed as a Non-Executive Director or provide services the organisation.
Executive Directors and other senior managers remuneration pursuant to a consultancy agreement in the relevant period of 12 months includes a greater proportion of performance related pay when compared to other following his departure from the Group, the instalments will be reduced by employees.
The Committee considers this is essential to differentiate levels of one-twelfth of the annual remuneration earned from the alternative employment, responsibility and align pay to sustainable long-term performance and directorship or consultancy.
Payments of the instalments may be required to be shareholders interests.
deferred until six months after termination by US tax rules applying to Mr Warren.
To the extent that any payment or benefits payable to Mr Warren under his All employees are eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan which is subject service agreement or under any bonus or share incentive plan would be subject to similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Some Sales employees to US excise tax, the payments and benefits may be reduced if this would result are eligible to participate in commission plans rather than the annual bonus plan.
in Mr Warren receiving a greater after tax amount than if the benefits were not Opportunities vary by organisational level.
On termination other than by reason of summary dismissal Mr Warren will be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the year in which his employment is terminated subject to company and individual performance.
79 79 79 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Other senior employees participate in long-term incentive plans on similar terms Consideration of shareholders views to Executive Directors but with reduced award levels for less senior roles.
The Committee is mindful of shareholder views when setting and evaluating ongoing remuneration principles, and commits to consulting with shareholders The malus provision on unvested awards applies automatically to all awards prior to any significant changes to the remuneration policy.
granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the 2014 LTIP.
However, the Committee will have the discretion to determine at the grant date whether the Shareholders have been particularly supportive of the simplification of the Group clawback rule on paid bonuses and vested awards will apply to awards granted to incentive arrangements without increasing the overall incentive opportunities.
participants other than Executive Directors.
Below the Board, LTIP participants excluding Executive Directors may continue to be eligible for matching share Malus and clawback provisions remain unaltered.
awards if they acquire invested shares up to 50% of their net salary at or around the time the award is granted.
In setting remuneration for Executive Directors, the Committee considers the overall approach to reward employees across the Group taking into account the scale, scope or responsibility of the role, development within a role and or significant market movement.
Salary increases of Executive Directors in percentage terms are normally in line with those of employees in their local jurisdictions.
The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on Executive Directors pay.
The Committee receives ongoing regulatory updates and information on external market practices from its independent external advisers who provide additional context for decisions.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual Non-Executive Directors do not receive any level which is considered appropriate to attract fee with additional fees payable for committee benefits or entitlements other than their fees individuals with the necessary experience and chairmanship.
ability to make an important contribution to the Groups affairs.
Certain Non-Executive Directors are also entitled Travel and other appropriate expenses with to receive fees from subsidiary companies.
associated taxes including fees incurred in obtaining The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration professional advice in the furtherance of their duties Committee, and the Board is responsible for determining The Non-Executive Chairman of the Group and Senior incurred in the course of performing their duties are all other Non-Executive Director fees.
Independent Director receive an all-inclusive fee for reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
Fees are reviewed periodically to ensure they Non-Executive Directors are covered by the Directors remain appropriate.
The Committee retains the Fees are neither performance-related nor and Officers insurance and indemnification.
flexibility to increase, adjust and make one-off pensionable.
payments to Non-Executive Directors based on their remit.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus or LTIP plans and Fees are set taking into account the level of are not entitled to any payments on termination.
responsibility of each Non-Executive Director and fees at other companies of a similar size and complexity.
The aggregate fees payable to all Non-Executives combined excluding the Chairman and excluding fees paid for any appointments on subsidiary boards are capped as set out in the Groups Articles of Association as they may be amended by a resolution of shareholders from time to time.
The current limit on the aggregate fees that are payable is 1,500,000 per financial year.
Details of current fees are set out on page 87 of the 2016 Annual Report.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with no notice period except for the Group Chairman who has a notice period of six months unless he is not re-elected by shareholders in which case his appointment will terminate immediately.
The Non-Executive Directors appointments are for an initial period of three years from the date of appointment and are also subject to re-election by shareholders.
80 80 80 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Amendments to the Remuneration Policy Report The Committee remains mindful that regulation of companies in the financial services sector continues to evolve.
The Committee recognises that remuneration arrangements may need to be amended in order to comply with any new regulations which become applicable to the Group.
The Committee reserves the right to make changes to the Policy described above in order to comply with any such regulatory requirements which apply to the Group including any changes required under the UK Corporate Governance Code or for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Where this results in a major structural change, the Committee would expect to present a revised policy to shareholders for approval at the following AGM.
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors The chart below illustrates how much the current Executive Directors could receive under different scenarios in the first year of this policy taking effect i. e. 2017, assuming a constant share price.
Note that London Stock Exchange Group plc does not have a stated target level for bonus and share awards, so we have assumed 50% of maximum awards to illustrate a mid-range scenario.
Element of remuneration Detail of assumptions Fixed remuneration This comprises: Base salary with effect from 1 April 2017 Benefits as they applied on 31 December 2016 and set out in the single figure table in the Annual Remuneration Report Pension Annual Bonus Assumes maximum opportunity of 225% of salary for CEO and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors For mid-range scenario: assumes payment of 50% of the maximum opportunity For maximum: assumes payment of 100% of the maximum opportunity Long Term Incentive Plan Assumes maximum opportunity of 300% of salary in conditional shares For mid-range scenario: assumes 50% of the maximum opportunity For maximum: assumes vesting of 100% of the maximum opportunity Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long term remuneration Xavier Rolet David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi 000 000 000 5,262 5,000 4,000 46% 3,162 3,154 3,009 3,000 38% 46% 42% 2,000 1,934 1,946 34% 33% 38% 28% 1,062 28% 31% 1,000 22% 884 25% 714 100% 34% 20% 45% 29% 100% 37% 23% 100% 0 Fixed Mid Max Fixed Mid Max Fixed Mid Max Legacy arrangements The Committee may make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments where the terms of the payment were agreed granted i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
81 81 81 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have operated during the past financial year FY2016, and also provides details on how we intend to operate our policy during the coming year FY2017.
The information from this page 82 to page 95 has been audited where required under the regulations and is indicated as audited where applicable.
Value for Long Term Incentives shown for FY2016 represents estimated value of share awards 6.
Benefits include the cash value of private medical and life assurance and expatriate allowances granted in 2014 that are expected to vest in August 2017.
The estimate assumes 100% vesting of with associated taxes.
the TSR element and 83.7% vesting of the EPS element.
The value is based on a three-month 7.
55,403 Performance shares vested on 13 June 2016 at 25.16 per share.
This equates to average share price from 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016, being 28.06.
Annual pension allowance of 25% of salary.
Benefits represent the cash value of private medical, disability and life insurance cover, luncheon 3.
Benefits include the cash value of private medical and life assurance, Save As You Earn SAYE and vouchers, car and fuel benefit.
commuting expenses with associated taxes including car transportation where appropriate.
Pension: mandatory INPS contributions calculated on salary, benefits and bonus for the 12-month period.
Rolet contributed 500 per month to the SAYE plan between January and December 2016.
Trattamento di Fine Rapporto mandatory arrangements calculated on salary, capped benefits, has been valued based on the monthly savings amount and the discount provided 20% bonus and shares and paid into Mr Jerusalmis pension plan for the 12-month period.
104,160 Performance shares vested on 13 June 2016 at 25.16 per share.
52,448 Performance shares vested on 13 June 2016 at 25.16 per share.
52,079 Matching shares vested on 13 June 2016 at 25.16 per share.
Additional notes to the Single total figure of remuneration Audited Xavier Rolet and David Warren each receive a flexible benefits allowance of Fixed pay 20,000 per annum.
These values have not been increased since last year.
Base salary Both of them also receive benefits in kind which principally include private When reviewing Executive Director salaries, and in line with our policy, health care and life assurance arrangements.
the Committee considers multiple reference points including companies in the FTSE 100, the broader Financial Services sector and other international Xavier Rolet contributes 250 per month into each of the 2014-2017 and exchange groups.
These schemes will mature in March 2017 and July 2018 respectively, with a six-month exercise window.
Benefits A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain core benefits As an expatriate from the US to UK, David Warren is also entitled to receive such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and, additionally in the following: Italy only, disability, illness, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon vouchers Each year he is entitled to tax preparation and filing assistance in the US together with in the UK a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on elective and the UK.
benefits such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
The Group will meet the costs of repatriating Mr Warrens effects back to the US if it terminates his employment other than in circumstances such Where received as a cash supplement, this allowance is not used to calculate as serious misconduct which would justify summary termination.
bonus payments or pension contributions.
Executives are eligible to An allowance to cover the cost of renting accommodation in the UK during participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save as You Earn Option SAYE the first four years of his appointment.
Mr Warren received 30,000 net per Scheme or international equivalent.
annum until October 2016 when this benefit ceased.
An annual allowance of 30,000 net per annum to cover flights between London and New York for Mr Warren and his family.
82 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Raffaele Jerusalmi receives benefits in kind such as private medical, disability and Bonus awarded for FY2016 life insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel.
He also contributes towards Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus based on meeting or the Italian mandatory national insurance system.
exceeding bonus targets that are set at the beginning of the year, looking at the Groups financial performance, strategic deliverables and their personal contribution.
There are no contractual malus or clawback provisions in place in relation to benefits.
The Committee also receives input from the Risk Committee with regard to Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance and performance related to risk culture awareness, transparency and accountability indemnification.
Retirement Benefits The operation of the FY2016 annual bonus is broadly as per last year.
For the In the UK, pension provision for our Executive Directors takes the form of a financial year ending 31 December 2016, the Committee determined that the sole non-consolidated cash allowance.
annual financial target should again be adjusted operating profit.
The Committee considers adjusted operating profit to be of particular significance for the Group Xavier Rolet and David Warren each receive an allowance equivalent to 25% of and believes it should continue to be the main financial measure for annual bonus base salary as a taxable cash supplement.
Only base salary is used to calculate plan purposes.
As per 2015, the maximum bonus opportunity is 225% of salary pension entitlement and no other pension supplements apply.
for the Chief Executive Officer and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors.
However, whereas for 2015, the balance between financial and strategic objectives Raffaele Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits in Italy.
was 50:50, for 2016 the balance is 60:40, reflecting the increasing importance of Actual benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation in financial performance to the Group.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions which are funded by the Company at a rate fixed by local The Executive Directors awards are funded from the Group bonus pool: their law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis private pension plan.
Both INPS and TFR individual awards are based on an assessment of their contribution weighted contributions are included in the single total figure of remuneration table on the against 55% Group AOP, 35% against strategic deliverables and 10% delivery previous page.
against personal objectives as determined by the Board.
Determination of Bonus for FY2016 The Committee determined the overall Group bonus pool with reference to the 12 month performance period ending 31 December 2016.
The performance measures and targets are set out below: Performance Maximum Actual Actual performance Target relative to target percentage of bonus percentage of bonus FY2016 Group AOP FY2016 Adjusted operating FY2016 Adjusted operating Above target 60% 54% Group Bonus profit of 691 million.
Pool Strategic Detailed plan developed to deliver industry-leading Above target 40% 36% Deliverables performance by 2020: Full integration of FTSE Russell Indexes: Successful sale of Russell IM: Robust management and growth of core business faced with macroeconomic implications whilst making substantial progress on the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse: Launch of BSL in Colombo, Sri Lanka: Ongoing M&A in pursuit of incremental products and services XTF & Mergent : Launch of new products, services and initiatives that expand and leverage open access strategy CurveGlobal, LCH Spider, Turquoise Plato and SwapAgent : Launch of LSE daily intra-day auction following comprehensive market-wide consultation: Further growth of ELITE: and Complex navigation of Brexit engaging with key stakeholders across regulatory, government and investor relations.
AOP excludes amortisation of purchased intangibles, non-recurring items and unrealised net investment gains losses at LCH.
For the FY2016 Group AOP bonus measure, Threshold was set at Target minus 5% and Maximum was set at Target plus 13%.
For 2016, the Remuneration Committee excluded 5 million Russell-IM related costs from AOP for the Group bonus pool calculation.
Group adjusted operating profit performance Strategic deliverables performance % of total bonus % of total bonus Maximum: 710m 60% 40% Maximum: 40% 60% Achieved: 691m 54% Achieved: 36% 50% 30% 40% 20% Target 20% 30% Target: 627m 30% 20% 10% 10% Threshold 5% Threshold: 594m 7.5% 0% 0% 1.
Actual result for Group AOP performance is 90.5% of maximum.
Actual result for strategic deliverables performance is 90% of maximum.
83 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Under Xavier Rolets leadership, the Group has delivered another strong financial David Warren has been an exemplary Group CFO since he joined in mid-2012.
performance with growth across all core business areas.
Total income from He has delivered superior results and, alongside the CEO, has been instrumental in continuing operations rose to 1,657.1 million, up 17%.
Adjusted operating profit the Groups success and execution of the ambitious global expansion strategy, on a continuing basis for FY2016 was 685.8 million FY2015: 584.7 million for achieved despite markets of unprecedented volatility and a challenging continuing operations.
There has been strong management and growth of our core businesses, despite In addition to the strong financial results noted for Xavier Rolet above, David has being faced with significant macroeconomic implications.
This has been conducted led the focus on cost discipline while investing for growth, focusing on new whilst providing significant focus on the highly complex proposed merger with opportunities and achieving the benefits of recent acquisitions.
targeted delivery of annual run rate cost synergies of $78 million and run rate revenue synergies of $30 million related to the integration of the FTSE-Russell Xavier Rolet has been the architect of LSEGs considerable shareholder value indexes are on track to be achieved ahead of schedule, concurrent with growth in creation.
Key successes in 2016 to note are: key US and Fixed Income markets.
In addition, the launch of BSL in Colombo, Sri Lanka, provides future outsourcing opportunities in a low-cost location.
The successful sale of Russell Investment Management, preserving the business value under challenging AUM market conditions.
David was central to the successful sale of Russell Investment Management and Full integration of the FTSE-Russell indexes.
Targeted delivery of annual has been vital in the ongoing M&A activity, such as XTF and Mergent Inc. in the run rate cost synergies of $78 million and run rate revenue synergies of Information Services Division.
He has also been outstanding in his handling of the $30 million are on track to be achieved ahead of schedule, concurrent transaction with Deutsche Brse to date.
In conjunction with the transaction, the with growth in key US and Fixed Income markets.
proposed disposal of LCH SA, LCH Groups French-regulated operating subsidiary, to Euronext N. V. is expected to be achieved at a very satisfactory valuation Numerous new products, services and initiatives have been launched that conditional on the successful closing of the merger.
expand and leverage open access strategy, for example, CurveGlobal, LCH Spider, Turquoise Plato, TradeEcho, FTSE Russell FI & MA Benchmarks Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana & Director of Capital Markets and SwapAgent.
In addition to his responsibilities as an Executive Director for the Group, Raffaele In addition to the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, there has been Jerusalmi has led our Capital Markets and Post Trade Divisions in Italy.
He has ongoing M&A activity in pursuit of incremental products and services, delivered a solid performance and continued to promote innovation and drive particularly in the Information Services Division.
For example, in November growth in spite of difficult macro-economic events.
Capital Markets had a 12% we announced the acquisition of Mergent Inc. a leading provider of business increase in revenues to 368.3 million FY2015: 330.3 million.
and financial information on public and private companies.
This will support the growth of FTSE Russells core index offering.
The Group welcomed 134 companies to our markets in the year, raising a combined total of 25.6 billion in new and further issues.
This has been achieved LCH revenue growth, in particular the development in the Rates franchise despite a volatile market and the complexity arising from Brexit, which has SwapClear, FXClear and SwapAgent.
required careful navigation and significant engagement with key stakeholders.
The proposed disposal of LCH SA, LCH Groups French-regulated operating subsidiary to Euronext N. V. at a very satisfactory valuation conditional on Other key achievements have been the launch of the LSE daily intra-day auction the successful closing of the merger.
Additionally, ELITE has expanded further, including ELITE Club Deal which has demonstrated early LSEG signed the UK Treasury Women in Finance Charter signalling the Groups revenue progress.
The rebranded Turquoise Plato Block Discovery and Turquoise ongoing commitment to equality in the workplace.
Plato Uncross platforms have also demonstrated strong growth throughout the year with record trading volumes.
In fixed income, Londons position as a leading international financial centre has been strengthened and our footprint in two of the worlds high-growth economies, China and India, has been deepened.
Additionally, CurveGlobal was launched in September, bringing together LSEG with seven major dealer banks and CBOE.
Based on the above context and an assessment of individual performance, the Remuneration Committee awarded bonuses to each of the Executive Directors as follows: Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Director of Capital Markets Bonus for % of salary 205% of salary 183% of salary 179% of salary FY2016 % of maximum 91% 91% 89% total amount 1,643,000 849,000 910,000 Of which 50% is deferred 821,500 424,500 455,000 Bonus for Financial Performance 55% 90.5% of maximum 90.5% of maximum 90.5% of maximum Strategic Deliverables 35% 90% of maximum 90% of maximum 90% of maximum Personal Objectives 10% 100% of maximum 100% of maximum 80% of maximum 84 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Compulsory deferral Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals are Executive Directors must compulsorily defer 50% of their bonus for a period of able to elect to defer under three different approaches: 100% of the deferral two years.
This provision applies to the bonus amount for the FY2016 bonus above amount into shares: 50% into shares and 50% into cash: or 100% into cash.
and operates as follows: Any deferral into shares will be disclosed at a later date once confirmed.
Until the minimum shareholding requirement of 2x base salary is reached, the percentage of bonus that is deferred will be deferred 100% into shares: and Long-term incentive plan LTIP August 2017.
The estimate assumes 100% vesting of the TSR element and 83.7% The final awards which Executive Directors had outstanding under the 2004 Long vesting of the EPS element: the estimated value is based on a three-month average Term Incentive Plan have now vested during FY2016.
All currently outstanding share price from 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016.
The final vesting outcome LTIP awards have been made under the 2014 LTIP.
including the actual share price at vesting following the end of the performance period will be disclosed in the next Annual Report on Remuneration covering FY2017.
To the extent that awards granted under the 2014 LTIP have not vested at the completion of the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, they will roll over into The performance conditions applying to awards granted in August 2014 are as shares of the new entity and will vest, subject to the performance outcomes as they follows: are determined in the new entity, on their scheduled vesting dates.
Further detail on Proportion of these arrangements is set out in the scheme document for the proposed merger.
EPS element 50% average TSR element 50% absolute TSR relevant element adjusted EPS growth growth which vests Awards granted in June 2013 with a performance period ended in FY2016 Less than 6% per annum Less than 8% per annum 0% The performance period for the absolute TSR element of the Performance Share and 6% per annum 8% per annum 25% Matching Share awards ended in June 2016.
The awards granted in 2013 were based 12% per annum or more 16% per annum or more 100% on absolute TSR performance in the three years from grant, and adjusted EPS Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points performance in the 33-month performance period to December 2015.
Over the period Annualised Absolute TSR performance in the three years to June 2016 was Due to the financial year-end change, EPS will be measured against unchanged 32% per annum and therefore vested at the full 100% for this element.
The annualised growth targets over three complete financial periods over 33 months for Company also delivered average adjusted EPS growth 11.1% over the performance 2014 grants.
For awards made in FY2015 and onwards, grants return to being period and therefore vested at 88.9%.
Vesting price as at 13 June 2016 was 25.16 measured over 36 months, on a calendar year basis.
The financial year-end change both for Performance shares and for Matching shares.
does not affect the TSR measurement period which remains three calendar years from grant.
The Committee will continue to Awards granted in August 2014 with a performance period determine final outcomes to ensure there is no material advantage or disadvantage ending in FY2017 to participants due to the financial year-end change in 2014 and the 33-month EPS The value shown in the single figure table on page 82 for the financial year ending measurement period.
December 2016 represents the estimated value of the 2014 awards which will vest in LTIP Awards Granted in FY2016 Audited LTIP awards during FY2016 were granted in March 2016 under the LTIP and were made with a value of 300% of salary for Xavier Rolet, 275% of salary for David Warren, and 275% of salary for Raffaele Jerusalmi at rate of 1 1.29.
The same EPS performance conditions and vesting schedules described above for 2014 awards also apply to these 2016 awards.
This also applies for TSR, except that the TSR targets range from 6% to 14% Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Director of Capital Markets 2014 % of salary 300% of salary 275% of salary 275% of salary LTIP Nil-cost Face value 2,400,000 1,278,750 1,086,587 being sterling equivalent of performance 1,400,000 on date of grant options 1 granted on Share price 28.70 28.70 28.70 2 17 March 2016 Number of LTIP 83,623 44,555 37,860 shares granted 1.
The share price of 28.70 was determined using the closing price MMQ on 16 March 2016 and 2.
TSR is measured over a 60-day trailing average at the start and end of the three-year performance approved by the Share Scheme Committee a sub-committee of the Remuneration Committee.
period which will end on 15 March 2019.
EPS is measured over three financial years ending 31 December 2018 and compared to the 2015 baseline.
Other share plans SAYE attached to SAYE options.
There is also an International Sharesave Plan ISP, All UK employees, including Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the which is designed to provide share options to Group employees who are not based HM Revenue & Customs approved Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE.
Under the in the UK on similar terms to the options that are available to UK employees rules of the SAYE, participants can save up to 500 each month, for a period of through the SAYE.
To date, employees in France, Hong Kong, Italy, Sri Lanka and three years.
At the end of the saving period, savings plus interest may be used to the US have participated in the ISP.
acquire shares by exercising the related option.
In 2016 Mr Rolet saved the maximum of 500 per month in aggregate across The options may be granted at an exercise price which represents a discount of up both SAYE grants in which he participates, pertaining to options granted on to 20% to market value at the date of invitation.
No performance conditions are exactly the same terms as to all eligible employees.
85 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration - Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2017 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 Departure arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer, should the Xavier was awarded a LTIP in 2016 after the proposed merger was merger proceed: announced.
He will waive his entitlement to the LTIP award for 2016 The Committee has carefully considered the departure arrangements of the CEO which is due to vest in March 2019 and would have been granted should the proposed merger proceed and discussed them in detail with key good leaver status by the Committee.
The Committee was grateful for their suggestions, which have As it is not yet known whether the merger will proceed, Xavier will be been taken into account.
granted a conditional LTIP award of 300% of salary in 2017.
Should the merger proceed, this LTIP would be waived upon completion.
Should the merger with Deutsche Brse complete, Xavier Rolet will step down from his role as CEO and Director of LSEG plc upon close of the transaction.
Should Xaviers notice period terminate earlier than April 2018 and his He will remain an employee and will continue to receive salary and contractual 2015 LTIP award not be pro-rated, his net position will be negative due to benefits during his notice period.
His terms are in accordance with the relinquishing his 2016 and 2017 LTIP awards.
The gain via not pro-rating the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy: 2015 award which will be zero if he remains in employment through April 2018 would be significantly exceeded by the loss arising from waiving the 2016 and Notice period Xaviers leadership is required to run LSEG until such time as 2017 awards.
This is demonstrated in the table below, which assumes 100% the transaction completes and, as such, his twelve month notice period will achievement of performance conditions and is based on the share price as at commence once it is certain the transaction will complete.
If his employment 30 December 2016. terminates before the end of the notice period, any remaining notice period 1 2 Illustrative gain loss based on potential termination date assuming full vesting would be paid in instalments and be subject to a reduction to reflect any alternative employment income.
Award Vesting date 30 Oct 2017 30 April 2018 Annual bonus He will be eligible for a bonus for time worked during 2017, 2015 LTIP 3 April 2018 446,566 0 which will be pro-rated for time accordingly and subject to performance 2016 LTIP 18 March 2019 1,286,075 1,692,204 and deferral.
Estimated net position 839,510 1,692,204 Deferred bonus he will be granted good leaver status and awards will vest, 1.
Illlustration uses MMQ of 29.14 as at 30 December 2016. in line with vesting schedules, in March 2018 and 2019.
A s the exact timing is not yet known, an indicative commencement of notice date of 30 April 2017 is shown with subsequent termination dates at six and twelve months to illustrate the potential LTIP his 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards will vest in August 2017 and April 2018 impact on LTIP vesting.
As the 2017 LTIP is yet to be granted, it has not been valued.
Both awards vest within his anticipated twelve month notice period.
Should his notice period terminate earlier than April 2018, the 2015 Should the merger not proceed, the above treatment will not apply.
award will not be time pro-rated.
Upon completion, shares will roll over into Any outstanding awards will vest in accordance with the rules of each shares of the new entity and will vest, subject to the performance outcomes respective Plan.
as they are determined in that new entity, on the third anniversary of grant and in accordance with the leaver provisions of the Plan.
Base salary operation: Annual bonus operation: During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of the base salary For FY2017 the Group bonus pool will be determined based on performance levels of our Executive Directors.
measures weighted 60% Group AOP and 40% strategic deliverables to be intended to be tested over a 12-month performance period.
In recognition of the scale, scope and responsibilities of the Chief Financial The Executive Directors awards are funded from the Group bonus pool: Officers role, the Committee has decided to increase Davids salary from 465,000 their individual awards will be based on an assessment of their contribution to 488,000 5% increase.
David did not receive a salary increase in FY2016.
weighted against 55% Group AOP, 35% against strategic deliverables and 10% delivery against personal objectives, as determined by the Board.
The Committee has decided to increase the salary of Raffaele Jerusalmi, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of Capital Markets from 510,000 Any bonus payment will be paid out in March 2018, with mandatory deferral to 520,000 2% increase, which is below the average employee increase of 2.5%.
of 50% of bonus for a period of two years.
Until the minimum shareholding requirement of 2x base salary is reached, There is no change to the salary of Xavier Rolet, the Chief Executive Officer.
the percentage of bonus that is deferred will be deferred 100% into shares.
Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals are Base salaries effective from 1 April 2017, are set out in the table below: able to elect to defer under three different approaches: 100% of the deferral amount into shares: 50% into shares and 50% into cash: or 100% into cash.
With With effect from effect from Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions.
Bonuses already paid out Annual Salary 1 April 2016 1 April 2017 under the Deferred Bonus Plan and vested awards are subject to clawback Xavier Rolet 800,000 800,000 0% e. g. in cases of material misstatement or gross misconduct with judgement David Warren 465,000 488,000 5% applied by the Committee.
Raffaele Jerusalmi 510,000 520,000 2% For good leavers, awards will usually vest at the normal vesting date and in full, unless the Committee determines to scale back the award based on any factors deemed relevant.
86 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Long Term Incentive Plan: Malus and clawback provisions will apply to these awards, allowing the Committee To the extent that any awards granted under the 2014 LTIP have not vested at the to reduce subsisting awards or request the refund of already paid or vested awards completion of the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, they will roll over into in certain circumstances e. g. material misstatement or gross misconduct.
shares of the new entity and will vest, subject to the performance outcomes as they are determined in the new entity, on their scheduled vesting dates.
Further detail on The 2017 awards will vest three years after the grant date subject to absolute TSR these arrangements is set out in the scheme document for the proposed merger.
and adjusted EPS performance measures as follows i. e. the same measures as those that applied to the 2016 awards : Awards are currently intended to be made in 2017 under the 2014 LTIP, as described in our Remuneration Policy Report.
EPS element 50% average adjusted EPS growth TSR element 50% absolute TSR growth Proportion of relevant element which vests Less than 6% per annum Less than 6% per annum 0% 6% per annum 6% per annum 25% 12% per annum or more 14% per annum or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Awards to be made during 2017 Based on the context and an assessment of individual performance, the Remuneration Committee is currently intending to make grants to each of the Executive Directors under the 2014 LTIP as set out below.
Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Director of Capital Markets 2 1 2017 % of salary 300% on conditional basis 300% of annual salary 275% of salary LTIP award subject to 1 amount 2,400,000 1,464,000 Sterling equivalent of 1,430,000 performance at prevailing FX rate at time of grant Notes: 1.
Xavier Rolet will be granted a LTIP award of 300% of salary in 2017, which will be waived upon completion of the merger with Deutsche Brse.
Salary refers to annual salary with effect from 1 April 2017.
David Warren will be granted a LTIP award of 300% of salary in 2017, reflecting his critical role in the Group.
The long-term award recognises the importance of Davids role and his valuable contribution and provides strong alignment to the performance of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors fees for 2017 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Fees were last reviewed and revised with effect from 1 January 2016.
No changes Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board and is neither are being proposed for 2017.
The fee schedule for 2017 is therefore as follows: performance-related nor pensionable.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is intended to recognise the significant responsibilities of Directors and With effect from to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make an Fees 1 January 2017 important contribution to the Companys affairs.
Comparisons are made with Group Chairman 400,000 fees paid at FTSE 100 companies.
Senior Independent Director 140,000 Non-Executive Director base fee 70,000 Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated taxes including fees Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 incurred in obtaining professional advice incurred in the course of performing Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 their duties are reimbursed to the Chairman and to the Non-Executive Directors.
Risk Committee Chairman 30,000 The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Audit Committee, Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee membership nil Companys annual bonus or LTIP plans and are not entitled to any payments Nomination Committee nil on termination.
Certain Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive fees from subsidiary companies, details of which are set out below.
87 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The original date of appointment as Directors of the Company is as follows: LSEG Committee Other subsidiaries Date of letter of membership membership Date Appointed appointment Time to expiry Notice period Date of resignation chairmanship chairmanship SID, Audit Chair, Nomination, 1 Paul Heiden 04 06 2010 04 06 2016 03 06 2019 None Remuneration, Risk LSE plc Audit, 2 Jacques Aigrain 01 05 2013 01 05 2016 30 04 2019 None Remuneration Chair LCH Remuneration Audit, Nomination, Stephen OConnor 12 06 2013 12 06 2016 11 06 2019 None Risk Chair LSE plc 19 6 2015 as Director: Group Chairman, 1 7 2015 Nomination Chair, Donald Brydon 19 6 2015 as Chairman End of AGM 2018 6 months Remuneration LSE plc Chairman Nomination, Regulatory Advisory 3 Mary Schapiro 01 07 2015 01 07 2015 30 06 2018 None Remuneration Group Chair Lex Hoogduin 04 12 2015 04 12 2015 03 12 2018 None None LCH Chairman David Nish 04 12 2015 04 12 2015 03 12 2018 None Audit, Risk Borsa Italiana Chairman, LSEGH Italia 4 Andrea Sironi 01 10 2016 01 10 2016 30 09 2019 None None Chairman Directors who stood down from the Board during the Year: 5 Andrea Munari 01 10 2007 01 10 2013 30 09 2016 None 01 10 2016 Risk Borsa Italiana LCH Remuneration, Adviser to Risk 6 Stuart Lewis 12 06 2013 12 06 2013 11 06 2016 None 26 04 2016 Remuneration, Risk Committee LSE plc.
Paul Heiden was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 27 April 2016.
Stuart Lewis stepped down from the Board on 26 April 2016 and continues to serve as an adviser 2.
Jacques Aigrain was appointed to the LCH Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2016 in place of to the Boards Risk Committee.
Sherry Coutu stepped down from the Board on 26 April 2016 and was appointed to the Board of 3.
Mary Schapiro was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 27 April 2016 and was LSE plc on 3 March 2016.
Sherry Coutu was appointed as Chair of the Groups Technology Advisory appointed as Chair of the Groups Regulatory Advisory Group formed during 2016.
Andrea Sironi was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2016.
Baroness Bowles stepped down from the Board on 26 April 2016 and also joined the Boards 5.
Andrea Munari stepped down from the Board on 1 October 2016.
Regulatory Advisory Group, formed during 2016.
Other fees relate to subsidiaries and other committees.
Andrea Sironi received a combined annualised fee of 155,000 126,644 for his roles as 2.
Taxable benefits relate to travelling expenses, including grossed up taxes where applicable.
Chairman and Director of Borsa Italiana and Chairman and Director of LSEGH Italia.
Mary Schapiro received an annualised fee of 25,000 as Chair of the Regulatory Advisory Group.
Andrea Munari received an annualised fee of 26,000 21,244 for his combined role as Vice 4.
Lex Hoogduin received an annualised fee of 350,000 or 285,948 using rate 1 1.22 for Chairman and Director of Borsa Italiana, using rate of 1 1.22 for FY2016.
Historic rate of FY2016 as Chairman of LCH and 49,000 as a Group Director or 40,033 using rate 1 1.22 for 1 1.38 for FY2015.
Alignment between pay and performance TSR chart v FTSE 100 over 8 financial periods Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The following graph shows, for the financial period ended 31 December 2016 800 700 and for each of the previous seven financial periods, the TSR on a holding of the 600 Companys ordinary shares of the same kind and number as those by reference 500 to which the FTSE 100 is calculated.
The TSR graph represents the value, 400 at 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in London Stock Exchange Group plc on 300 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index 200 over the same period.
As a member of the FTSE 100, we have chosen the FTSE 100 100 Index as it is currently the most relevant index for benchmarking our performance 0 over the seven financial periods.
Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Dec Dec Dec 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 2016 LSEG FTSE 100 89 Total Return rebased Apr-09 100 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Historic levels of CEO pay Period ended: CEO single total figure Annual bonus payout against Long-term incentive vesting rates 12 months unless otherwise stated CEO of remuneration 000 maximum opportunity % against maximum opportunity % 5 5 31 December 2016 Xavier Rolet 5,711 91% 92% 4 4 31 December 2015 Xavier Rolet 6,526 95% 94% 3 9 months ended 31 December 2014 Xavier Rolet 4,587 89% 50% 31 March 2014 Xavier Rolet 6,383 93% 100% 31 March 2013 Xavier Rolet 6,015 89% 100% 31 March 2012 Xavier Rolet 5,245 100% 65% 31 March 2011 Xavier Rolet 2,134 89% 1 31 March 2010 Xavier Rolet 1,873 71% 2 Clara Furse 400 49% 0% Notes: 1.
Xavier Rolet has been in the role of CEO from 20 May 2009, appointed to the Board 16 March 2009.
Value shown for the period ended 31 December 2015 represents the actual vesting of LTIP 2.
Clara Furse was in the role of CEO until 20 May 2009.
She resigned from the Board on 15 July 2009. awards granted in 2013 that vested on 13 June 2016 at 25.16 for both Performance awards 3.
89% of maximum for the 9-month period to December 2014 equivalent to 67% of and Matching awards.
Forecast for LTIPs to vest in August 2017.
The estimate assumes 100% vesting of the TSR element and 83.7% vesting of the EPS element.
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO Salary Benefits Annual bonus The table to the right shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, 2 CEO 0% 4% 3% benefits and annual bonus for the CEO compared to the average of the 1 Average pay of Group UK employees 3% 3% 5% representative sample of UK employees all LSEG UK employees.
Where Notes: appropriate, amounts have been annualised to provide a like-for-like comparison.
This group has been selected to reflect the jurisdiction in which the CEO is based.
This change relates to taxable expenses, offset by an increase in the charges for insurance and medical benefits the CEO is entitled to receive as part of his remuneration package.
Relative importance of spend on pay Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the relative FY2016 versus FY2015 expenditure of the Group m on Dividends versus Total Employee Costs.
These figures are underpinned by amounts from the Notes to the Financial Statements at the back of this report.
500 6% 400 Annual 428.8 405.5 Year-on-year increases % FY2016 FY2015 Increase 300 Dividends Paid In Financial Period 129.7m 115.5m 12% 200 Total Employee Costs 428.8m 405.5m 6% 12% 100 129.7 115.5 0 2015 2016 2015 2016 Dividends Paid in Financial Period Total Employee Costs 90 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests as at 31 December 2016 Audited All Executive Directors own shares outright, at a level exceeding their minimum required shareholding of 2x base salary based on a share price of 29.14 being the closing share price at 31 December 2016.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: 1 Shares held Options held Shareholding Unvested and Unvested and as at subject to subject to Vested 31 December performance continued but not Requirement 2016 Requirement 2 Owned Outright conditions employment exercised % salary % salary met Executive Directors Xavier Rolet 601,088 292,822 51,562 200 2,108 Yes David Warren 53,426 136,648 25,175 200 322 Yes 3 4 Raffaele Jerusalmi 80,861 137,157 200 545 Yes Non-Executive Directors Paul Heiden 3,818 N A Jacques Aigrain N A Stephen OConnor N A Donald Brydon 5,000 N A Mary Schapiro N A Lex Hoogduin N A David Nish 550 N A Andrea Sironi N A Directors who stood down from the Board during the Year: Andrea Munari N A Stuart Lewis N A Sherry Coutu N A Baroness Bowles N A Notes: 1.
No options were exercised by the Directors during the year to 31 December 2016.
Raffaele Jerusalmi elected to defer his 413,500 Deferred Bonus Plan Award, for FY2015, into cash.
Refers to Deferred Bonus Plan and SAYE.
91 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests Audited Options with performance Options without performance 1 2,3 Ordinary Shares Held conditions conditions Total Interests 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Executive Directors 4 4 Xavier Rolet 601,088 519,069 292,822 374,620 51,562 23,688 945,472 917,377 David Warren 53,426 24,342 136,648 150,752 25,175 11,238 215,249 186,332 5 Raffaele Jerusalmi 80,861 52,130 137,157 154,827 218,018 206,957 Non-Executive Directors Paul Heiden 3,818 3,818 3,818 3,818 Jacques Aigrain Stephen OConnor Donald Brydon 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 Mary Schapiro Lex Hoogduin David Nish 550 550 Andrea Sironi Directors who stood down from the Board during the Year: Andrea Munari Stuart Lewis Sherry Coutu Baroness Bowles Notes: 1.
LTIP performance and matching shares are structured as nil-cost options.
Incorporates 1,212 SAYE options: the balance relates to Deferred Bonus Plan.
Unvested awards in the Deferred Bonus Plan and share options granted under SAYE.
Deferred Bonus Plan shares are structured as nil-cost options: they are subject to continued 6.
There have been no further changes in these interests between 31 December 2016 employment and malus provisions.
92 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Long Term Incentive Plan Table The 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan had two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the Executive in the Companys shares.
The 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan has the same two elements as the 2004 LTIP: however, Executive Directors can receive conditional awards of Performance Shares only.
The awards are dependent on Absolute TSR performance for 50% of the award, with the other 50% dependent on an Adjusted EPS growth target.
Details of performance conditions are set out on page 87.
FY2017 Estimate: Average share price over the period from 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016 3.
Vesting of Matching shares granted on 12 June 2013 at actual vesting price of 25.16. price with vesting forecast at 91.85%.
All estimates are shown separately in bold.
They will be fully disclosed in next years Annual 2.
Vesting of Performance shares granted on 12 June 2013 at actual vesting price of 25.16.
93 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Governance The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises the Chair and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees remit includes the remuneration including the awards made under the performance-related incentive schemes where applicable of the Chairman of the Group, Executive Directors, the Executive Committee as well as other regulated staff.
Please see pages 54 55 for details of the Groups Executive Committee.
At least three members of the Committee are considered to be independent.
Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in this Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website at www.
During the financial period ending 31 December 2016, the Committee met on four occasions.
Here is a summary of the items they discussed: Routine Non-Routine February 2016: FY2015 Performance and Bonus approval FY2016 Bonus design FY2016 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of previous LTIP schemes Sharesave vesting and FY2016 grants Performance and determination of CEO and Executive Committee members remuneration FY2015 Directors Remuneration Report LCH.
Clearnet Remuneration Committee proposals Frank Russell Company 2015 bonus and Executive Committee awards April 2016 None Merger-related items September 2016: FY2016 Performance and Bonus Update Gender pay reporting LTIP updates LCH Remuneration Committee Shareholder feedback representation 2016 Shareholder and Governance trends CurveGlobal LTIP update Regulatory update Merger-related items Shareholder consultation planning December 2016 Salary Review FY2017 Gender pay reporting Review draft FY2016 Directors Remuneration Report M&A activity FY2016 Performance and Bonus update LSEG Remuneration Policy 2017-20 FY2017 Bonus considerations considerations FY2017 LTIP Merger-related items LCH Remuneration Committee proposals Review of market analysis and regulatory updates February 2017 FY2016 Performance and Bonus approval Merger-related items FY2017 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of previous LTIP and DBP schemes Shareholder consultation planning This meeting took place during Sharesave vesting and FY2017 grants Gender pay reporting FY2017 and will be repeated in Performance and determination of CEO and Executive Committee members remuneration next years report.
FY2016 Directors Remuneration Report LCH Remuneration Committee proposals Regulatory Update To assist the Committee, the results of market surveys are made available.
Where appropriate, the Committee invites the views of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Human Resources and the Chief Risk Officer via the Risk Committee.
None of these individuals nor the Chairman participated in any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
94 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Statement of shareholder voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2014 and 2016 AGM: Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld Number % Number % Remuneration Policy Report 2014 AGM 207,082,981 94.94 11,040,635 5.06 218,123,616 206,951 Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 AGM 251,541,604 96.86 8,155,140 3.14 259,696,744 1,124,831 Advisers Outside appointments The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of recommendations from Executive Directors are allowed to accept appointments as Non-Executive key stakeholders, including institutional investor bodies.
The Committee consults Directors of other companies with the prior approval of the Chairman.
with major shareholders on any key decisions taken.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not represent a conflict of interest with the Companys activities and where the wider exposure Deloitte LLP is the principal adviser appointed by the Committee to provide gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Executive Directors independent advice on executive remuneration policy and practice, and reviews may retain fees to encourage them to seek out the development opportunities the implementation of our approved policy against current and emerging and valuable experience afforded by these appointments and in recognition of corporate governance best practice.
During 2015, the Committee undertook a the personal responsibility Executives assume in such roles and we would disclose competitive tender process for the role of Remuneration Committee adviser and these fees.
re-appointed Deloitte as its principal adviser with effect from 1 April 2016.
At present, none of the Executive Directors are in receipt of additional fees.
During the year, Deloitte LLP received 125,100 excluding VAT based on actual time spent for these services.
In addition, Deloitte received 157,300 excluding No payments were made for loss of office during the year and no payments VAT for advice related to the potential merger with Deutsche Brse.
Separately, were made to past directors.
other parts of Deloitte LLP also advised the Company during 2016 in relation to tax, internal audit, consulting and transaction support services.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte LLP is independent and objective.
Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 March 2017 95
