Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement by Remuneration Committee Chairman the 125% in future years.
In line with best practice and as a result of feedback from our engagement with major shareholders, the Committee has also agreed to introduce a holding period on vested LTIP awards, with effect from the 2017 awards.
In total, the performance period and holding period will be five years.
To further strengthen alignment with shareholders, dividend equivalents may accrue on vested shares following the end of the performance period and up until the release of the awards i. e. the point at which the awards become exercisable.
At the 2017 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve the amendments to the LTIP rules to implement these changes.
The Committee remains committed to a responsible approach to executive pay and continues to take a principled and prudent approach to setting reward levels.
Whilst the Group did not hit the Dear Shareholder internal target it set itself for Group profit it did achieve both a 7.1% On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Report increase in underlying Group profit versus 2015 which is above for the year ended 1 October 2016 comprising my Annual Statement and the bonus threshold and its return on capital target.
Based on this summary, the new Directors Remuneration Policy on page 49 and the achievement, the bonus awarded was 40% of salary which will apply Annual Report on Remuneration on page 57.
The current Remuneration to both employees and Directors bonuses.
Because the Group Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM to apply for a did not achieve all of its internal targets for the year the Directors, period of three years.
Consequently, the Committee undertook a review of in considering the wider workforce, have proposed to waive their the policy during the year to assess its appropriateness and relevance for LTIP entitlement this year.
As a result, the Committee has exercised the next three years and, as a result, the Committee are proposing a few its discretion and withheld the vesting of the 2013 LTIP which will minor changes which are summarised at the top of page 49.
designed to ensure that the policy remains aligned with our strategy whilst allowing sufficient flexibility in the event of business changes and Pay review.
In reviewing the salaries paid to Executive Directors, succession planning needs.
I recommend the new policy to you and, if the general economic climate and average increases across the approved, it will apply from the close of the 2017 AGM.
Group, the Committee approved an increase in base salaries of 2%.
In recognition of the expansion of Andrew Andreas role to contribute Approach to remuneration to Group strategy, oversee new corporate projects and implement The Committees approach to remuneration is to ensure that a new pub retail system, the Committee approved an additional our Executive Directors rewards are aligned with the interests of increase resulting in a total increase of 9.7%.
shareholders through the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The bonus targets and performance metrics attached to Shareholder engagement.
The Committee remains committed our Long Term Incentive Plan are set at challenging levels and we will to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in continue to adopt a responsible approach when considering the actual voting outcomes.
We were delighted again that the Annual Report payout of awards.
on Remuneration received a very strong level of support of over 99% of the votes cast at the 2016 AGM.
We welcome feedback from Changes to the Remuneration Policy our shareholders as it helps inform our thinking on remuneration The Committee considers that the Groups current remuneration matters.
As part of the preparation of the 2017 policy that we framework continues to be effective in supporting the delivery of our are proposing to shareholders, the Committee engaged in an business strategy and the creation of shareholder value.
Therefore, the open dialogue with major shareholders and institutional investor Committee has decided to make only minor changes to the remuneration bodies setting out the changes proposed and the thinking behind policy to take account of developments in best practice and to ensure the proposals.
I hope we can rely on your continuing support that the policy continues to provide sufficient flexibility over the next three at this years AGM where I will be available to respond to any years.
In summary the changes are: questions shareholders might have on this report or the activities Shareholding guidelines.
In line with best practice, these will be of the Committee.
We are interested in your views and if you included in our binding policy, rather than only being referenced in wish to contactme directly about the new policy, the report or the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In addition, the Committee is remunerationmatters in general then please email me at proposing that the shareholding guideline for the CEO will double to remunerationchair@marstons.
200% of salary to reflect his higher remuneration package.
The Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to say that it has been a guideline for our other Executive Directors will remain at privilege to have served on the Board of Marstons for the last eight years 100% of salary but the Committee will continue to monitor the and I will hand over the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee appropriateness of this level.
to Catherine Glickman at the end of the AGM 2017, confident that she will Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Whilst the Committee does not continue to take a responsible approach to executive remuneration that have any current intention to increase the normal maximum LTIP supports the achievement of our strategic objectives and the creation of grant, which is set at 125% of salary, it has agreed to introduce an shareholder value.
overall maximum limit of 150% of salary that may be used to make ongoing grants.
This is intended to ensure that there is flexibility in the remuneration policy, should it be required over the next three Neil Goulden years, to continue to provide competitive remuneration packages Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in order to attract and retain Executive Directors of the calibre required, taking into account the size and complexity of the business and potential changes to the business needs.
The normal maximum grant of 125% of salary will apply for the 2017 LTIP awards and we will consult with major shareholders should we intend to increase 47
