CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee Report 2016 PERFORMANCE Dear Shareholder, Strategic objective Measure Outcome I am writing to you as the new Chair of Marshalls Remuneration Delivering sustainable EPS EPS: 18.95p 32% Committee, having succeeded Alan Coppin on his retirement in growth toincrease 100% target achieved May 2016.
I am pleased to report on how the Committee has profitability carried out its objectives and responsibilities during 2016.
Maximise operational OCF OCF: 57.9m efficiencies togenerate 96.96% target achieved This report is divided into three: an introduction and at a glance cash summary of our activities, the proposed 2017 Remuneration Policy, Meet customer service Customer Target achieved and how it differs from the 2014 Policy, and our Annual Remuneration expectations Service Index Report, showing how our Policy was applied during the year and Ensure a safe workplace for Health and safety Target achieved the outcomes, particularly for Executive reward.
our employees accident reduction Janet Ashdown AT A GLANCE PERFORMANCE IN 2016 AGAINST STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Chair of the Remuneration Committee LINKED TO REMUNERATION Strategic objectives are focused on improving operational efficiency, promoting innovation and strengthening the Marshalls brand through excellence in service and systems.
Remuneration linked to delivering long-term sustainable growth Remuneration Committee Report pages 4648 through improvement in profitability and cash generation.
Remuneration Policy pages 4957 Incentive awards require achievement of significant EPS growth Annual Remuneration Report pages 5865 and an operating cash flow OCF target as proxies for measuringprogress.
co. uk remuneration Brand, market leadership and employee engagement objectives incorporated through non-financial criteria customer service and health and safety improvement.
2016 targets set for maximum performance took account of best case consensus expectations and incorporated significant stretch against these expectations and the Groups 2016 budget.
Payment of bonus balanced with shareholder returns.
The regular dividend increased by 24 per cent in line with our dividend policy and, including the supplementary dividend, the overall dividend growth for 2016, was 30 per cent.
FUTURE OBJECTIVES Obtain approval for new Remuneration Policy in 2017, maintainingstrong links with performance.
Implement Policy, ensuring it is aligned with the interests ofstakeholders in the widest sense.
Continue to follow best practice principles in remunerationmatters.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS Janet Ashdown Chair Andrew Allner Mark Edwards Tim Pile 46 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of salary for Executive Directors other than the Chief Executive Remuneration Policy Our Remuneration Policy was last submitted to shareholders in whowas already at 200 per cent.
The full Policy is set out in Section2 of this Report.
May2014 and will expire in May 2017.
On my appointment I therefore reviewed the current Policy with the Committee.
The conclusion Remuneration advisers theCommittee reached was that the current Policy in substance During 2016, the Committee also reviewed the appointment of its remained fit for purpose to support the implementation of the remuneration advisers, and carried out a competitive retendering of Companys strategy over the next 3-year Policy period.
The tender process included a full review of remuneration policy, the suitability and operation of the Groups incentive schemes In reaching this decision the Committee took into account and Executive remuneration generally.
Following this process, the thefollowing: Committee re-appointed  as its external latest guidance from the Investment Association, the Executive remuneration adviser.
Remuneration Working Groups July 2016 report and other BEIS Green Paper on Executive Pay shareholder and investor bodies: The Committee and the Board, having carefully considered the the latest GC100 report on the implementation of the proposals in the Green Paper issued in November 2016, submitted a 2013Regulations: detailed response to the Governments consultation in February 2017.
Whatever the outcome of the consultation, the Committee would the Companys performance against the main KPIs over the current expect to continue to follow best practice in relation to Executive pay Policy period: and structure, engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders and the annual votes of shareholders on how the Committee has reporting on remuneration matters.
operated the current Policy Remuneration Report voting approval of Salary increases for 2017 over 90 per cent in each year since the current Policy was introduced.
In line with the current and the new Policy, the Committee resolved We also sought the views of major shareholders in reaching this to increase the salaryof the Executive Directors with effect from conclusion.
We will therefore be putting forward a Remuneration 1January 2017 by2per cent, which is in line with the inflation-based Policy for shareholders to approve at our AGM in May 2017 that is percentage applied generally to salaries for the wider workforce.
Fees consistent with the previous Policy.
The only material change that for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were also increased by theCommittee is proposing to make on the renewal of the Policy the same percentage.
isto increase the minimum shareholding requirement to 200 per cent Summary of activities during 2016 Date Task February 2016 Review 2015 bonus forecast and status of previous years incentive scheme awards MIP, LTIP.
Determine detailed targets for performance-related incentive scheme awards for the 2016 financial year under MIP byreference to 2016 strategic objectives.
Review remuneration reporting regulations for 2015 Annual Remuneration Report including any changes toRemuneration Policy.
March 2016 Following audited accounts approval, review performance against incentive scheme targets, and approve Element A and Element B bonus awards under the MIP for the 2015 financial year: assess vesting levels of 2013 LTIP awards and approve arrangements for LTIP awards vesting in March 2016. Review and approve draft Remuneration Report to shareholders, checking it makes proper disclosure ofremuneration.
July 2016 Review CEO expenditure against expenses policy: approve extension of current expenses policy.
August 2016 Remuneration adviser tender process: review appropriate comparator sector group for remuneration purposes.
October 2016 Benchmarking of Executive and Non-Executive packages in line with current Policy: consider appropriateness and relevance of Policy and incentive schemes with external advice : and write to shareholders regarding renewal of Remuneration Policy in 2017. Review contractual termination commitments: make recommendations on Executive Directors and .
December 2016 Review Group remuneration trends and any changes in employee pay and benefits: review detailed remuneration proposals for Executive Directors and senior managers.
Review Board expenses policy and expenses paid.
Terms of Reference and Committee performance evaluation review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee Report continued Statement of shareholder voting The table below shows the May 2016 Annual General Meeting voting results on the resolutions relating to remuneration.
For and discretion as a Against as a percentage of percentage of For and discretion votes cast Against votes cast Withheld Resolution 12 RemunerationReport Votes 146,377,827 98.39 2,392,360 1.61 2,026,973 The Committee believes the percentage of votes in favour of We are pleased that the design of the MIP, introduced in 2014 to theRemuneration Report and the wider share plan initiatives replace the 2005 LTIP, continues to meet best practice guidance showsthat shareholders remain very supportive of the Groups forlong-term incentive plans, including extended holding periods, remuneration arrangements.
deferred bonus, malus and clawback and targets that are clearly aligned with shareholder interests.
Remuneration disclosure Our Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued support, Companies Act 2008 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized and also record thanks to my predecessor, Alan Coppin, for his Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment effective leadership of the Committee over the past 6 years.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Corporate available at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017 Governance Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and to answer any questions on our Policy, its application and this Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Shareholder engagement The Committee is supportive of the principle of active engagement Janet Ashdown with shareholders and other stakeholders and transparent reporting Chair of the Remuneration Committee of remuneration.
As Chair, I welcome dialogue, and the Committee 15 March 2017 will continue to seek opportunities to improve the way in which ourpolicies and their implementation can be seen to support our strategy for the benefit of shareholders, the wider workforce, our customers and other stakeholder groups.
We believe that the currentapproach strikes a good balance.
48 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
