Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Aligned to the long term success of the Company Our pay structure encourages strong alignment between This years Remuneration Report is split into three sections: the interests of our senior executives and the interests of Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration our shareholders.
Committee contains details of our remuneration principles Senior executives receive regular awards of shares under and of the key decisions reached by the Committee.
the Performance Share Plan PSP which are subject to the Policy Report to be put to a binding vote by shareholders at achievement of challenging EPS and ROCE performance targets.
EPS and ROCE are key performance indicators the 2017 AGM.
Given that the existing Remuneration Policy aligned to the Companys strategic priorities and the expires in the 2017 financial year, a summary of changes is creation of value to shareholders.
contained in this Chairmans Statement with the full details The business continues to see many global opportunities for set out in the Policy Report.
the successful deployment of capital and these measures are Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of pay designed to ensure that this is done in the most effective received by Directors in 2016 and full details of how we manner to generate sustainable long term returns.
intend to implement our pay policy during 2017.
The Annual For senior executives, there is greater emphasis on rewards Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote for delivery of longer term performance targets than short at the 2017 AGM.
Members of the Executive Committee are required to Remuneration principles build up and retain a significant holding of Merlin shares.
A series of key principles underpin the Merlin remuneration For Executive Directors, the requirement is to build a structure: payments should be based on results and performance: holding of shares worth 200% of base salary.
pay should be aligned to the long term success of the Company and consistent with best practice: and widespread share Consistent with best practice ownership should be encouraged.
Salaries are intended to be set at competitive, but not excessive, levels compared to peers and other companies Performance orientated of an equivalent size and complexity.
Rewarding performance is a core part of our ethos.
About There is potential for market competitive levels of total 80% of our permanent employees participate in a bonus plan pay but only if stretching business targets are delivered.
and over 340 employees receive regular share awards or For our employees, we have a high degree of simplicity share option grants.
To reinforce the link between performance and pay, most employees are rewarded for the performance of their Widespread share ownership particular attraction.
Only the senior executives the Widespread share ownership is an integral part of Merlins Executive Committee and their direct reports and culture.
We operate all-employee share plans that enable employees of central functions are rewarded for the all of our permanent employees to purchase a stake in performance of the overall Group.
For senior executives, including the Executive Directors, These plans supplement the discretionary share plans for performance related pay, based on stretching short term senior executives Deferred Bonus Plan and PSP and the and longer term targets, forms a significant part of their Company Share Option Plan CSOP for middle management.
82 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Performance in 2016 Review of Remuneration Policy for 2017 The Committee has reviewed the application of the The financial and operating performance of Merlin in 2016 is Remuneration Policy in place since 2014 and concluded that the set out on pages 2 to 59 in the Strategic Report.
structure of the current approach to salary, short term and long term incentives for the Executive Directors remains aligned to The Group delivered a solid set of financial results.
In light of this, no significant LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group continued to deliver amendments are proposed.
growth and the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group delivered a stronger year supported by the recovery at Alton Towers.
As previously communicated the Company has put in place However, a combination of security concerns and exchange malus and clawback provisions and a health and safety underpin rate volatility impacted trading at some of our largest city for all PSP awards from 2017 onwards.
We have also taken this centre locations in the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
opportunity to clarify that the Committee already has the ability Taken together, the Group reported revenue of 1,457 million to adjust bonus awards to ensure they reflect underlying business and generated an underlying operating profit of 320 million performance, including health and safety matters.
for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2016.
These important safeguards are incorporated into the proposed As a result of financial performance falling below the threshold new Remuneration Policy.
for payment of profit related bonus, no bonus will be paid to the CEO or the current or previous CFO in relation to Recent economic uncertainty along with suggestions for 2016 performance.
alternative approaches to Executive Remuneration structures and other guidelines from investors mean that the Committee The Performance Share Plan awards granted on IPO in will keep the policy under active review.
Any future proposals November 2013 will partially vest on 1 April 2017.
Details will be driven by the Companys strategy and will take account of the awards are set out on page 100 of this report.
of the increasing complexity of the Group.
Pay decisions for 2017 I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in The proposed pay structure for the Executive Directors for understanding our remuneration practices and that you will be 2017 is outlined on pages 93 to 94.
Key decisions made by supportive of the resolution relating to remuneration at the AGM.
the Committee in relation to 2017 include: As ever, the Committee welcomes any questions or comments The CEO received a 1.0% increase in his salary as part of the from shareholders.
pay review effective from 1 October 2016.
The annual pay review date for the Group has moved from 1 October to 1 April and as a result it is proposed to grant a further Charles Gurassa increase of 2.25% from that date.
The average salary increase Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the Merlin UK workforce effective from 1 October 2016 1 March 2017 was 1.0% and effective from 1 April 2017 is 2.25%.
Under the terms of her contract, the salary of the CFO is fixed until October 2017 when a 2.25% increase will be awarded.
The Committee has agreed the same basic structure to the bonus plan as 2016 with individual objectives for the Executive Directors appropriately reflecting Company priorities.
For the Executive Directors 100% of bonus award depends on profit performance and of that 20% also depends on achievement against specific personal objectives.
The Committee has also maintained the same basic structure for the PSP with unchanged threshold and maximum performance conditions.
In addition, for awards from April 2017 onwards a health and safety underpin will be attached to all PSP awards.
Further details are set out on page 94.
83 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report POLICY REPORT This part of the Remuneration Report sets out our updated Effective from 2016, malus and clawback conditions apply Directors Remuneration Policy Policy.
The Policy will be subject to bonus payments, deferred share awards and Performance to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
This Policy will Share Plan awards.
In addition, effective from 2017, a health apply to payments made from 13 June 2017.
The current and safety underpin will apply to all PSP awards.
The Policy policy was approved in 2014 by a vote in favour of 99.4%.
also specifically sets out that the Remuneration Committee The information provided in this section of the Remuneration has discretion to amend the bonus payout should any Report is not subject to audit.
formulaic output not reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance, including for health and Policy table safety issues.
The following table sets out details of each component of the To reflect the international composition of the Non-executive Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide Directors NED, where a NED lives outside the UK a travel pay packages that will: allowance may be paid for attendance at Board meetings.
Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
The updated Policy clarifies payments that can be made Attract high quality individuals to join us.
in connection with a Directors cessation of office or Encourage and support a high performance culture.
employment where the payments are made in good faith Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of a Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection other external stakeholders.
with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
The updated Policy clarifies the discretion of the Committee Key changes to the previous Policy are as follows with to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the details included in the relevant sections of the updated standard Policy in the exceptional circumstances when the Policy below.
Chairman or a NED or an interim appointment takes on an Executive Director role on a short term basis.
Purpose and link 1 to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions Fixed pay Base salary Generally reviewed annually with any increase No absolute maximum has been set for None To appropriately normally taking effect from 1 April although the Executive Director base salaries.
Current recognise responsibilities Committee may award increases at other times Executive Director salaries are set out in and attract and retain of the year if it considers it appropriate.
the Annual Report on Remuneration talent by ensuring salaries section of this Remuneration Report.
The review takes into consideration a number of factors, including but not limited to : Any annual increase in salaries is at the The individual Directors role, experience discretion of the Committee taking into and performance.
account the factors stated in this table Business performance.
and the following principles: Market data for comparable roles Salaries would typically be increased in appropriate pay comparators.
at a rate consistent with the average Pay and conditions elsewhere in salary increase in percentage of salary the Group.
terms for permanent UK employees.
Larger increases may be considered appropriate in certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
84 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Purpose and link 1 to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions Benefits Benefits are role specific and take into account There is no overall maximum as the None To provide market local market practice.
level of benefits depends on the annual competitive cost of providing individual items in the benefits.
Benefits currently include a company car or car relevant local market and the individuals allowance, phone costs, income protection specific role.
insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The Committee has discretion, in the event of the appointment of a Director based overseas or in appropriate circumstances, to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
Pension Current policy is for the Company to either Executive Directors receive a contribution None To provide market contribute to the Group Pension Plan and or of up to 25% of base salary to the Group competitive retirement to provide a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
Pension Plan and or as a cash allowance benefits.
Variable pay 2, 3 Annual bonus The Executive Directors are participants in the The maximum award that can be made The bonus is based on To link reward to key central bonus plan which is reviewed annually under the central bonus plan is 150% performance assessed business targets for the to ensure bonus opportunity, performance of base salary.
over one year using forthcoming year and to measures and targets are appropriate and appropriate financial, individual contribution.
supportive of the business strategy.
Each year the Remuneration Committee strategic and individual determines the maximum bonus performance measures.
Additional alignment with Two-thirds of an Executive Directors annual opportunity for individual Executive shareholders interests bonus is delivered in cash following the release Directors within this limit.
The majority of the bonus through the operation of audited results and the remaining third is will be determined by of bonus deferral.
deferred into an award over Company shares measure s of Group under The Merlin Entertainments plc financial performance.
The selected measure s Deferred awards are usually granted in the for the relevant financial form of conditional share awards or nil-cost year are set out in the options and may also be settled in cash.
Annual Report on Deferred awards usually vest three years Remuneration section after award although may vest early on of this Remuneration leaving employment or on a change of Report.
An additional payment in the form of A sliding scale of targets cash or shares may be made in respect is set for each Group of shares which vest under deferred awards financial measure with to reflect the value of dividends which would payout at zero for have been paid on those shares during the threshold financial vesting period this payment may assume performance increasing that dividends had been reinvested in to 50% for meeting Company shares on a cumulative basis.
expectations and Bonus payments and deferred share awards 100% for maximum will be subject to withholding or clawback performance.
at the Remuneration Committees discretion during the three year period following The remainder of the the award of the bonus in exceptional bonus will be based circumstances where the Committee finds on financial, strategic that the Executive Director has engaged in or operational measures misconduct justifying summary dismissal or appropriate to the there has been a material misstatement of individual Director.
the financial accounts relating to the relevant The selected measures bonus year or any other error in calculation for the relevant financial which has led to an overpayment of bonus.
year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report.
85 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Purpose and link 1 to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions The discretion available to the Committee Any bonus payout is remains unchanged and continues to provide ultimately at the wide-ranging discretion on the award and discretion of the vesting of bonuses.
In particular the Committee Committee.
has discretion to amend the payout should any formulaic output not reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance, including health and safety issues.
Performance Share Plan Awards are usually granted annually under the The maximum annual award permitted Vesting of PSP awards 3, 4 PSP PSP to Executive Directors and other selected under the PSP is shares with a market is usually dependent on, To link reward to key senior executives.
value as determined by the Committee but not limited to, business targets for the of 350% of salary.
measures of Group longer term and to retain Individual award levels and performance earnings and return on executives and the conditions on which vesting will be Each year the Remuneration Committee total investment with the creation of value for dependent are reviewed annually by determines the actual award level for precise measures and shareholders by the Remuneration Committee.
individual Executive Directors within weighting of the measures rewarding long term this limit.
Awards may be granted as conditional Committee ahead of awards of shares, nil-cost options or each award.
These details forfeitable share awards or, if appropriate, are disclosed in the as cash-settled equivalents.
Annual Report on Remuneration section Awards normally vest at the end of a period of this Remuneration of at least three years following grant although Report.
may vest early on leaving employment or on a change of control see later sections.
Performance will usually be measured over a three An additional payment in the form of cash year performance period.
or shares may be made in respect of shares For achieving a threshold which vest under PSP awards to reflect the level of performance value of dividends which would have been against a performance paid on those shares during the vesting period measure, no more than this payment may assume that dividends had 25% of the portion of the been reinvested in Company shares on a PSP award determined cumulative basis.
by that measure will vest.
Vesting then increases on PSP awards will be subject to potential a sliding scale to 100% withholding or clawback during the five for achieving a stretching year period following the date of award maximum performance in exceptional circumstances of evidence target.
coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
In the event of a material health and safety breach by the Group during the period between grant and vesting of an award, the Remuneration Committee may reduce the number of shares which would otherwise vest as a result of the EPS and ROCE performance conditions to ensure that the vesting outcome is appropriate.
86 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Purpose and link 1 to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions All Employee Share Plan Tax-approved monthly savings scheme Monthly saving limit of 500 or such The Sharesave scheme is UK Sharesave Scheme facilitating the purchase of shares through other limit as may be approved from structured in accordance 3, 5 share options at a discounted exercise price time to time by HMRC under all with HMRC requirements To create staff alignment by all eligible UK employees.
savings contracts held by an individual.
so has no performance with the Group and conditions but requires promote a sense of Executive Directors are eligible to participate participants to make ownership.
on the same basis as other employees.
regular savings into a savings contract.
Company Share Option The CSOP permits grants of share options with Annual awards of options over shares If CSOP awards were, in 3 Plan CSOP an exercise price of not less than the market worth up to 100% of salary at grant exceptional circumstances, Executive Directors value of a share as determined by the or, if the Remuneration Committee granted to an Executive will only receive CSOP Committee at the time of grant.
determines that special circumstances Director, they would be awards in exceptional exist, 200% of salary.
subject to an appropriate circumstances.
Options are usually exercisable between performance condition as three and ten years following grant although determined by the Individuals who are may have a different exercise period on leaving Committee.
promoted to the Board employment or on a change of control may have outstanding see later sections.
An individual promoted awards under this plan.
to the Board may have Options that are HMRC unapproved may, if outstanding CSOP awards appropriate, be settled in cash or be net-settled.
granted prior to their promotion that have no performance conditions attached to them.
Notes to the table: 4 1 The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition s if circumstances Performance measures - PSP.
The PSP performance measures are chosen to provide occur which cause it to determine that the original condition s have ceased to alignment with our longer term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable be appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders not materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
In particular, our use of earnings and return on total investment The Committee may also adjust the calculation of performance targets and vesting measures is designed to reward management for delivery of key financial measures outcomes for instance for material acquisitions, disposals or investments and events of Company success that should result in sustainable value creation.
Targets are not foreseen at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection considered ahead of each PSP grant by the Remuneration Committee taking into of performance over the relevant period.
In the event that the Committee were to account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next appropriately stretching.
5 Broadly equiv alent versions of the UK Sharesave Scheme operate for USA employees 2 Performance measures - annual bonus.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and overseas employees Overseas Sharesave annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets Scheme.
An Executive Director based in the USA or overseas may be eligible to for the forthcoming year in addition to key strategic or operational goals relevant to participate in one of these schemes instead of the UK Sharesave Scheme.
Precise targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year The monthly contribution limit for the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan by the Remuneration Committee based on relevant reference points, including, would be specified by the Remuneration Committee before each grant.
for Group financial targets, the Companys budget and are designed to be appropriately stretching.
6 The Committee reser ves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in 3 connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the and with the exception of HMRC approved options demerger, super dividend or 2014 AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholderunder the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the approved Directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or relevant plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Companys IPO iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, Prospectus.
Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments Policy Report is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to discretionary employee share to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the schemes and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to award is granted.
7 The Committee may mak e minor amendments to the policy set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
87 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Differences in policy from broader employee population There are differences in the precise components within the pay policy for Executive Directors and for our employees generally and a greater proportion of Executive Directors pay is at risk and determined by performance than for our employees generally.
However, as outlined in the Committee Chairmans Statement, common principles underlie the pay policy throughout the Company including for the Executive Directors.
In particular, we place great emphasis throughout the Company on reward being linked to performance either Group performance or of an employees particular attraction and on encouraging share ownership through participation in the PSP, CSOP or the All Employee Share Plan.
Non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non-executive Director NED fees NED fees other than NEDs whose Fees are set at an appropriate level that is To appropriately recognise responsibilities appointment is in respect of their position market competitive and reflective of the by ensuring fees are market competitive.
as representatives of the pre-IPO major responsibilities and time commitment shareholders comprise payment of an associated with specific roles.
annual basic fee and additional fees for further Board responsibilities such as: No absolute maximum has been set for Senior Independent Director.
fee levels are set out in the Annual Report Remuneration Committee Chairman.
on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that the total aggregate fees paid No NED participates in the Groups incentive to the Chairman and NEDs will not arrangements or pension plan or receives any exceed 1,000,000. other benefits other than: where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
where a NED lives outside the UK in which case a travel allowance may be paid.
Fees are generally reviewed annually.
NEDs whose appointment is in respect of their position as shareholder representatives do not receive a fee.
88 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Illustrations of application of remuneration policy Merlins remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short term and long term performance targets.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
Assumed performance Assumptions used All performance scenarios Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary - salary effective as at 1 January 2017.
Benefits - estimated value of 5% of base salary.
Pension - amount expected to be received in 2017 25% of base salary.
Minimum performance Variable pay No payout under the annual bonus.
Performance in line with expectations Variable pay 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
Maximum performance Variable pay 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
For the purposes of the illustration, we have, consistent with legislative requirements, included the maximum permitted annual bonus opportunity 150% of salary and maximum permitted PSP award 350% of salary as set out in the Policy Table above.
We would emphasise that these are the maximum permitted awards under the incentive schemes.
The CFOs actual annual bonus opportunity for 2017 135% of salary is lower than the scheme maximum and the face value of the PSP awards to be granted to the CEO and CFO in 2017 250% of salary and 225% of salary respectively will be lower than the scheme maximum.
4,000 3,699 PSP Annual Bonus 3,500 Fixed Pay 3,000 55% 2,426 2,500 2,231 2,000 55% 46% 1,463 1,500 24% 46% 20% 1,000 763 24% 20% 501 500 100% 34% 21% 100% 34% 21% 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum expectations expectations CEO CFO 89 000 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Approach to recruitment remuneration Buy outs To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may Principles make a one off award to buy out terms, incentives and any In determining remuneration arrangements for new other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous appointments to the Board including internal promotions, employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of all the Committee applies the following principles: relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the including the calibre of the individual, market data and existing proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle any arrangements should be in the best interests of Merlin will be that any replacement buy out award should be of and our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
comparable commercial value to the terms, incentives and other Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned compensation which have been forfeited.
However such awards onto the same package structure as the other Executive would only be considered where there is a strong commercial Directors, in line with the Policy Table presented above.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any Components and approach legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the The remuneration package offered to new appointments may original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other is appointed following the Companys acquisition of or merger element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the with another company or business, legacy terms and particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of conditions would be honoured.
shareholders subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
Upon appointment, the Committee may consider it appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements In considering which elements to include, and in determining the in order to secure the appointment.
In particular, the approach for all relevant elements, the Committee will take into Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out terms account a number of different factors, including but not limited or remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a to market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive previous employer discussed below.
If appropriate, different targets The Committee may provide costs and support if the may be applied to a new appointees incentives in their year recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard Policy to The Committee would seek to structure buy out and variable meet the individual circumstances of recruitment when: pay awards on recruitment to be in line with the Companys An interim appointment is made to fill an Executive remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary, Director role on a short term basis: or the Committee may also grant such awards outside of that Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to or a Non-executive Director takes on an executive the limits on variable pay set out above.
The exact terms of any function on a short term basis.
such awards e. g. the form of the award, timeframe, performance conditions, and leaver provisions would vary depending upon Maximum level of variable pay the specific commercial circumstances.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment Recruitment of Non-executive Directors shall be limited to the maximum permitted in the Policy Table, In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive namely 500% of their annual salary.
This limit excludes any Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line payments or awards that may be made to buy out the Director with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-executive for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their Directors.
However the Committee or the Board as previous employer discussed below.
appropriate may include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
90 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Service contracts In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements the Committee would take the following factors into account: and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment other than The Committee may determine that the Executive Director the Non-executive Director whose appointment is in respect of is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in their position as representative of KIRKBI are summarised in the which they cease employment.
This bonus would usually be table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would time apportioned.
In determining the level of bonus to be have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, take into account stated in this Policy Report.
performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole based on appropriate performance measures as determined by the Committee.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by Provision Policy the relevant share plan rules.
Notice period Executive Directors - twelve months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment Non-executive Directors - three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an Director or no notice period if terminated existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such by shareholders.
an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any Termination There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors payment the Executive Directors service agreements.
Any such payments may include but are Any payments of compensation on termination not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or would be subject to negotiation in line with the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection general principles which include a duty for with his cessation of office or employment.
the individual to mitigate loss.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive The table overleaf summarises the treatment of share awards any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling twelve months which Executive Directors could hold awards.
notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
All Non-executive Directors have rolling three Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in months notice periods so have no fixed the Group expiry date.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees as part of its process when determining Executive Director pay.
However the Committee is kept informed of general decisions Sren Thorup Srensen, as the Non-executive Director made in relation to employee pay and related issues by the nominated by KIRKBI is appointed pursuant to the Relationship Group HR Director and is conscious of the importance of Agreement with his nominating shareholder and does not ensuring that its pay decisions for Executive Directors are have an individual letter of appointment with the Company.
regarded as fair and reasonable within the business.
As outlined The Relationship Agreement provides for KIRKBI to maintain in the Policy Table, pay and conditions in the Group are one a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for of the specific considerations taken into account when so long as they hold 10% of the Companys share capital.
the Committee is determining salary levels for the The Company has the right to remove this Director should Executive Directors.
the relevant shareholding fall below 10% and no fees or termination payments are payable.
All Executive Directors Consideration of shareholders views service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of The Companys largest shareholder KIRKBI has an observer appointment are available for inspection at the Companys at the Committee.
In addition we have sought the views of our registered office at 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset BH15 1NQ.
largest institutional shareholders for instance through discussion with the Chairman of the Board and or the Remuneration Policy on payment for loss of office Committee Chair and leading advisory bodies.
As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, pension and benefits in relation to the individuals outstanding notice period.
91 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
Treatment Treatment on a change Good leaver Treatment for for any of control voluntary Plan categories good leaver other leaver winding-up Deferred Death.
Deferred bonus awards vest on Deferred bonus Deferred bonus awards Bonus Plan Injury.
Transfer of employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates Performance PSP awards will usually vest on a Awards lapse.
PSP awards will vest on a out of the Group.
Share Plan time-apportioned basis on the normal time-apportioned basis Any other scenario in vesting date subject to any relevant unless the performance which the Remuneration performance condition s measured period is complete or unless Committee determines over the full performance period.
the Committee determines that good leaver otherwise and subject to the treatment is appropriate However, in the event of death, Committees determination of other than circumstances or special circumstances at the the extent to which any justifying summary dismissal.
Remuneration Committees discretion, relevant performance awards may vest early based on the conditions are satisfied.
Committees determination of the extent to which any relevant performance conditions are satisfied.
The Committee has the discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, to dis-apply time apportionment.
Company Share Options become exercisable for a period Options lapse.
Options will become Option Plan of six months after the date on which exercisable on a timeExecutive the Committee determines the extent to apportioned basis unless Directors will which the option becomes exercisable any performance period is only receive or twelve months in the event of death.
complete or unless the CSOP awards Committee determines Options will become exercisable subject in exceptional otherwise and subject to the to the Committees determination of the circumstances.
Committees determination extent to which any relevant of the extent to which any performance conditions are satisfied and Individuals who relevant performance on a time-apportioned basis unless the are promoted to conditions are satisfied.
In the Board may relation to HMRC-unapproved options, have outstanding options may become exercisable at the awards under normal vesting date or earlier if the this plan.
UK Sharesave Options become exercisable immediately on death, ceasing employment due to injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, sale of Scheme the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates out of the Group or on a change of control of Overseas the Company.
Sharesave Scheme US Employee Options become exercisable on death, ceasing employment due to injury, permanent disability, reaching normal retirement age, sale Stock Purchase of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates or on a change of control of the Company.
Plan 92 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy, as set out in the Policy Report, in 2017 for the current Executive Directors.
Base salary Salary details for the current Executive Directors are set out below.
Salary Salary 1 October 2015 1 October 2016 % increase Nick Varney CEO 581,400 587,214 1% Anne-Francoise Nesmes CFO - on joining - 385,000 - Following a review of the timing of the Groups annual pay review it was decided to move the review date from 1 October to 1 April, effective from 2017.
To effect this transition, small interim pay awards were made in October 2016 with a full annual award to be made in April 2017.
As a result, Nick Varney received an increase of 1.0% in October 2016 and will receive an increase of 2.25% in April 2017 in line with the average increase for all UK permanent employees.
In accordance with her contract Anne-Francoise Nesmes will receive a first review of her salary in October 2017, also reflecting a 2.25% increase.
Pension and benefits As in 2016, the current Executive Directors will receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary.
Nick Varney will receive this contribution as a cash allowance and Anne-Francoise Nesmes will receive a contribution to the Group Pension Plan of no more than the minimum annual allowance for pensions of 10,000 and a cash allowance in respect of the balance.
To the extent that a cash allowance is paid this is reduced by the corresponding amount of employer National Insurance Contributions.
They will also receive a standard package of other benefits consistent with those received in 2016.
Annual bonus The structure of the annual bonus plan for 2017 remains broadly consistent with the 2016 plan.
Key features are as follows: The maximum annual bonus potential will be 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% for the CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
Bonus payments and deferred share awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the three year period following the award of the bonus in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
As noted in the new Policy, the Committees discretion remains unchanged and we have specifically noted that the Committee has the ability to adjust bonus awards to ensure they reflect underlying business performance, including health and safety issues.
The annual bonus for 2017 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below: As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Measure CEO CFO Underlying operating profit 80% 80% Personal objectives 20% 20% Total 100% 100% 93 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Payment under the non-financial elements of the bonus will be scaled back to the extent that Group underlying operating profit targets are not fully met.
This means that if there is no payment under the Group underlying operating profit element of the bonus scheme, there will also be no payment under the personal element of the bonus irrespective of performance against the aforementioned individual measures.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2017 financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan PSP awards are granted over Merlin shares with the number of shares under award determined by reference to a percentage of base salary.
Vesting of the awards is conditional upon satisfaction of performance conditions and is usually also conditional upon continued employment until the awards vest.
The CEO and CFO will be amongst the participants in the PSP award to be granted in April 2017.
Awards will be over shares worth, at the date of grant, 250% of salary for the CEO and 225% of salary for the CFO.
Vesting of these awards will be subject to satisfaction of the following performance conditions measured over the three financial years to December 2019.
EPS performance condition 50% of award ROCE performance condition 50% of award Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting Average ROCE % of award vesting 7% p. a.
Below threshold 0% Below threshold 9% 0% cumulative growth 7% p. a.
Threshold 10% Threshold 9% 12.5% cumulative growth Between threshold 7% - 14% p. a.
10% to 50% Between threshold 12.5% to 50% on 9% - 13% and maximum cumulative growth on sliding scale and maximum sliding scale 14% p. a.
Maximum 50% Maximum 13% 50% cumulative growth Adjusted EPS is defined on page 172.
Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2017, 2018 2019 financial year with Adjusted EPS for the 2016 financial year.
As noted elsewhere we are exploring the opportunity for a third LEGOLAND park in North America.
Because of the large scale and early stage of this potential development and the fact that a park is yet to be confirmed, all costs and revenues related to this project will be excluded from the calculation of vesting of the 2017 PSP award and added back into the calculation of future awards.
PSP awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the five year period following the date of award in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
Employee Share Plan Invitations to UK employees including Executive Directors to participate in the Employee Sharesave Plan UK Sharesave Plan were issued in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Similar invitations were issued to relevant employees under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the Overseas Sharesave Plan.
Invitations for the next award under each of these plans commence in March 2017.
94 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Non-executive Director remuneration The table below shows the fee structure for Independent Non-executive Directors for 2017.
Independent Non-executive Director fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee for the Chairman of the Board which is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
2017 Basic fee for UK-based Non-executive 50,000 Basic fee for overseas-based Non-executive 50,000 plus a travel allowance of 1,000 per Board meeting attended in person Senior Independent Director additional fee 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 250,000 There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees nor to the shareholder representative Non-executive Director.
95 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report AUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report up until the Unaudited information heading on page 101 is subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration in 2016 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors for 2016 with prior year comparatives for 2015.
2016 Salary Annual Long term 1 2 3 4 5 6 All figures shown in 000 and fees Benefits bonus incentives Other Pension Total Executive Directors Nick Varney 583 21 - 1,193 - 128 1,925 Anne-Francoise Nesmes 160 8 - - - 36 204 Former Executive Director 10 Andrew Carr 205 10 - 572 - 45 832 Non-executive Directors Sir John Sunderland 250 - - - - - 250 Charles Gurassa 70 - - - - - 70 Ken Hydon 60 - - - - - 60 Fru Hazlitt 50 - - - - - 50 Trudy Rautio 57 - - - - - 57 9 Rachel Chiang 57 - - - - - 57 Sren Thorup Srensen - - - - - - - 2015 Salary Annual Long term 1 2 3 4 5 6 All figures shown in 000 and fees Benefits bonus incentives Other Pension Total Executive Directors Nick Varney 581 21 - - 3 128 733 Andrew Carr 352 17 - - 3 82 454 Non-executive Directors Sir John Sunderland 250 - - - - - 250 Charles Gurassa 70 - - - - - 70 Ken Hydon 60 - - - - - 60 7 Miguel Ko 21 - - - - - 21 Fru Hazlitt 50 - - - - - 50 8 Trudy Rautio 14 - - - - - 14 Sren Thorup Srensen - - - - - - - Notes to the table - methodology: 1 Salary and fees - this represents the cash paid or receivable in respect of the period.
For Non-executive Directors based outside the UK this includes any travel allowance payable.
2 Benefits - this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid or receivable in respect of the period.
Executive Directors receive a company car or car allowance, phone costs, income protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
3 Annual bonus - this is the total annual bonus earned in respect of the period.
Two-thirds of this bonus is paid in cash and the remaining third is deferred in shares for three years.
Further details relating to the 2016 bonus are disclosed below.
4 Long term incentives - this column relates to the value of long term awards the performance period for which ends in the year under review.
The first long term incentive award granted post Listing had a performance period that ended in 2016.
As a result, this column has a zero figure in 2015 and the figure for 2016 reflects the vesting of the award based on the average closing share price for the final quarter of 2016 4.428.
Further details are given in the Outstanding awards under the PSP note on page 100.
5 Other - this column relates to the value of the grant of options under the UK Sharesave Plan.
The grant has been valued, for the 2014 and 2015 grants respectively, at 22.6% and 29.8% of the face value of shares under option which is the IFRS 2 valuation for these awards.
None of the Executive Directors participated in the 2016 UK Sharesave Plan.
96 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Notes to the table - methodology continued : 6 Pension - Executive Directors receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary.
Nick Varney receives this contribution as a cash allowance and Anne-Francoise Nesmes receives this as a contribution to the Group Personal Pension Plan up to the annual allowance and, in respect of the balance, as a cash allowance.
This figure represents the benefit received by the Directors in respect of the period.
7 Miguel Ko stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2015.
Fees shown for Miguel Ko are from 28 December 2014 to 14 May 2015.
8 Trudy Rautio joined the Board on 1 October 2015.
Fees shown in the table are from that date to 26 December 2015.
9 Rachel Chiang joined the Board on 1 January 2016.
Fees shown in the table are from that date to 31 December 2016.
10 Details shown for Andrew Carr for 2016 are his salary, pension and benefits from 27 December 2015 to 31 July 2016 plus the estimated vesting value of his 2013 PSP award, the performance period for which ended in 2016.
Andrew continued to work for the Company until 31 October 2016 and details of his pay for that period are set out on pages 98 to 99.
Andrew was ineligible for the 2016 bonus plan.
Andrew Carr retired on 31 October 2016 at which date his salary was 351,900.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single figure table Annual bonus Executive Directors are participants in the central bonus plan.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors for 2016 was 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% of salary for the CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned is deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
In 2016, Andrew Carr was not eligible for bonus due to his retirement and Anne-Francoise Nesmes was eligible on a pro-rated basis for the period from joining until 31 December 2016.
The maximum potential annual bonus that could be paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2016 performance was determined by underlying operating profit performance with targets set by reference to the Group budget.
20% of that potential bonus was additionally subject to satisfaction of individual objectives.
Performance measures and targets applying to the 2016 annual bonus are set out below.
In 2016 no bonus was payable to employees under the central bonus plan, including the Executive Directors, since the financial threshold for payment of bonus was not achieved.
Proportion of % of Performance bonus determined Threshold Target Maximum Actual maximum measure by measure performance performance performance performance bonus payable 2 Underlying 80% 338.8 million 360.4 million 382.0 million 320 million 0% operating profit 0% of bonus 40% of bonus 80% of bonus payable payable payable 1 Individual 20% Following the year end, the Committee assessed performance objectives against the individual objectives for each Director for 2016.
CEO: The CEO met the majority of his personal objectives which 0% as comprised health and safety, development of the pipeline in threshold profit support of the 2020 targets for new LEGOLAND parks, target was not accommodation and Midway openings, visitor satisfaction achieved and talent management.
CFO: The CFO met the majority of her personal objectives which comprised simplifying processes, with a particular focus on budget and business plans, and assessing the future finance organisation model to support Merlins international growth.
0% CEO TOTAL 0% CFO 1 The maximum annual bonus payout that can be received as a result of individual objectives is scaled back to the extent that the actual underlying operating profit falls short of the maximum payout.
2 As reported on a statutory 53 week basis.
97 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Performance Share Plan awards An award was granted under the PSP to selected senior executives, including Nick Varney, on 1 April 2016.
Following her recruitment, as disclosed in last years Remuneration Report, a PSP award was granted to Anne-Francoise Nesmes on 1 September 2016.
These awards are subject to the performance conditions described below and will vest on 1 April 2019 and 1 September 2019 respectively.
Maximum Face value End of number of Face value % of base Threshold vesting performance Type of award shares salary % of award period Performance 1 For EPS element Nick Varney 313,592 1,453,500 250% shares 10% of award max 50% 29 December 2018 For ROCE element Anne-Francoise Performance 180,431 866,250 225% 12.5% of award max 50% 2 Nesmes shares 1 The maximum number of shares that could be awarded has been calculated using the closing share price on 31 March 2016 of 4.635 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
2 The maximum numb er of shares that could be awarded has been calculated using the closing share price on 31 August 2016 of 4.801 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
10% to 50% Between threshold 12.5% to 50% 9% - 13% and maximum cumulative growth on sliding scale and maximum on sliding scale 14% p. a.
Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2016, 2017 2018 financial year with Adjusted EPS for the 2015 financial year.
Payments to past Directors There were no payments to past Directors during 2016.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office to Directors during 2016.
Andrew Carr stepped down as a Board Director on 31 July 2016 and continued to work for the Company until 31 October 2016 in order to provide transitional support to the new CFO.
His salary, pension and benefits until 31 July 2016 are included in the single total figure of remuneration on page 96.
He received an additional 111,622 for salary, pension and benefits earned as an employee between 1 August and 31 October 2016.
He received no additional payments in relation to his notice period.
98 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report As disclosed in last years Remuneration Report, Andrew Carr was not eligible for a bonus or PSP award in 2016.
His outstanding PSP awards will vest, to the extent that performance conditions are satisfied, on a time pro-rated basis and on the normal vesting date.
The estimated vesting value of his 2013 PSP award, the performance period for which ended in 2016, is included in the single total figure of remuneration on page 96.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests A shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary by the fifth anniversary of appointment applies to the Executive Directors.
The CEO had a shareholding that exceeded that requirement at 31 December 2016.
The CFO joined in August 2016 and is in the process of building up her shareholding to meet the requirement by her fifth anniversary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve the shareholding requirement primarily by retaining at least 50% of any share awards that vest under the PSP and the Deferred Bonus Plan after selling sufficient shares to satisfy tax liabilities.
Individuals are expected to be compliant with their shareholding requirement within five years of that individual becoming subject to the requirement.
The Committee reviews ongoing individual performance against the shareholding requirement at the end of each financial year.
Current shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors are set out in the table below.
Number of shares Interests in share Interests in share incentive incentive schemes, schemes, awarded without awarded subject to performance conditions at performance conditions 2 Value of shareholding at 31 Shares 31 December 2016 at 31 December 2016 December 2016 as a % of owned salary Shareholding outright at Deferred 1 Director requirement target 31 December 2016 Sharesave Bonus PSP 3 Nick Varney 4,949% 200% 6,477,823 5,816 66,086 1,234,085 Anne-Francoise 5% 200% 4,500 - - 181,452 3 5 Nesmes Sir John Sunderland - 511,122 - - - Charles Gurassa - 31,746 - - - Ken Hydon - 31,920 - - - Fru Hazlitt - 31,746 - - - Trudy Rautio - 11,250 - - - Rachel Chiang - - - - - Sren Thorup Srensen - - - - - 4 Andrew Carr 2,658% 200% 2,085,123 5,816 34,006 375,330 Notes to the table: 1 In accordance with the Deferred Bonus Plan rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under Deferred Bonus Plan awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the deferral period calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The total number of shares shown in this table includes 1,722 shares for Nick Varney which relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant on Deferred Bonus Plan awards.
As a good leaver, shares held under the Deferred Bonus plan for Andrew Carr vested on his retirement on 31 October 2016.
2 Further details relating to the PSP grants are summarised in the table below.
3 For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals salary and the share price as at 31 December 2016 has been used 4.486.
4 Information regarding Andrew Carr relates to shareholdings at his date of ceasing to be an Executive Director 31 July 2016 and his salary at that time.
5 Anne-Fr ancoise Nesmes is required to build up her shareholding by the fifth anniversary by retaining at least 50% of shares that vest under the Deferred Bonus Plan or the Performance Share Plan or the Company Share Option Plan after selling sufficient shares to satisfy the tax liability on vesting and any exercise price payable in relation to the share awards until the value of her share interest satisfies these guidelines.
Between 31 December 2016 and the date of this report there were no changes in the shareholdings outlined in the above table.
99 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Outstanding awards under the PSP Maximum Dividend Date Date number of equivalent Performance 2 of grant of vesting shares shares period Performance condition EPS: 10% vests 12 November 2013 1 April 2017 560,952 18,326 2014-2016 for 7% p. a. cumulative Nick 2 April 2015 2 April 2018 328,846 8,807 2015-2017 growth increasing to 50% Varney 1 April 2016 1 April 2019 313,592 3,562 2016-2018 vesting for 14% p. a. cumulative growth ROCE: 12.5% vests for average ROCE of 9% Andrew 12 November 2013 1 April 2017 269,202 8,793 2014-2016 1 increasing to 50% vesting Carr 2 April 2015 2 April 2018 94,797 2,538 2015-2017 for average ROCE of 13% Full details of performance conditions can be found in the AnneRemuneration Reports for the Francoise 1 September 2016 1 September 2019 180,431 1,021 2016-2018 year in which the grants Nesmes was made.
1 In the table above the maximum number of shares for Andrew Carr has been time pro-rated from the date of grant to his retirement date of 31 October 2016.
2 In accordance with th e PSP rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under PSP awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The figures in the table above relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
As disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts the performance period for the 12 November 2013 awards was the three financial years to 31 December 2016.
The calculation of the performance conditions is as follows: Adjusted EPS growth - by comparing EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 comprising 53 weeks with EPS for the financial year ending 28 December 2013.
The Adjusted EPS for the financial year ended 28 December 2013, taking account of the full year impact of the post Listing financing structure was 15.7p.
Average ROCE - an average of ROCE for the three individual financial years ending 27 December 2014, 26 December 2015 and 31 December 2016 53 weeks.
The compound annual growth rate of Adjusted EPS over the performance period was 9.8% and the average Return on Capital Employed was also 9.8%.
The performance conditions set out above yield a vesting of 46.5% of maximum.
100 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report UNAUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The chart below compares the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company over the period from Listing to 31 December 2016 to the performance of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which Merlin is a member.
The base point in the chart for Merlin equates to the Offer Price of 315p.
148 150 146 Merlin Entertainments FTSE 350 145 140 135 130 126 125 120 120 115 115 110 103 103 105 101 100 100 95 90 Listing 2013 year end 2014 year end 2015 year end 2016 year end 13 November 28 December 27 December 26 December 31 December 2013 2013 2014 2015 2016 The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and PSP vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
1 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 Salary and Benefits 000 75 596 605 604 Pension 000 18 127 128 128 Bonus 000 58 859 - - 3 PSP Long Term Incentive Plan 000 n a - - 1,193 CEO single figure of remuneration 000 151 1,582 733 1,925 Annual bonus payout n a no maximum 100% 0% 0% as a % of maximum opportunity limit applied in 2013 PSP vesting outturn n a no award n a no award n a no award 46.5% as a % of maximum opportunity vested in 2013 vested in 2014 vested in 2015 1 From Listing on 13 November 2013 to 28 December 2013.
2 Includes value of options under UK Sharesave Plan.
3 Relates to performance from 28 December 2013.
101 Value of 100 invested at the Offer Price Merlin on the date of Listing FTSE 350 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Percentage change in remuneration of the CEO The table below indicates the change in the CEOs remuneration between 2015 and 2016 and the change in average remuneration for other UK permanent employees between 2015 and 2016.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the UK workforce is the most appropriate comparator for this analysis for the UK based CEO.
1 2 3 Salary increase Benefits increase decrease Annual bonus increase decrease CEO 1% 0% 0% Average for all UK employees 1% 0% 0% 1 The CEOs salary was increased by 1% effective 1 October 2016.
There has been no further increase since that time.
2 The CEOs benefits remained at the same level as the previous year.
3 For comparative purposes the annual bonus % for the CEO is compared to the average for the participants in the central bonus plan.
Relative importance of the spend on pay This table illustrates the total expenditure on pay for all of Merlins employees compared to distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit is also shown.
2015 2016 m m Increase decrease Employee costs 327 382 17.0% Distribution to shareholders 64 67 4.7% Underlying operating profit 291 320 9.7% 102 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Committee has been chaired throughout the year by Charles Gurassa.
The Committee has comprised the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Committee, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt and Trudy Rautio.
The Committee met three times during 2016.
The CEO, CFO, Group HR Director, Group Compensation and Benefits Director, Sren Thorup Srensen and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in his role as secretary to the Committee were also present at some of these meetings by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of Executive Director pay.
It also monitors pay arrangements for other senior executives and oversees the operation of all share plans.
Full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website under Investor Relations - Corporate Governance.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company in 2013 to provide advice on executive remuneration matters.
During the year the Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte, principally on the drafting of the remuneration report, shareholder consultation and market practice.
Deloitte was paid 56,800 in fees during 2016 for these services charged on a time plus expenses basis.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, other practices of Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, have provided indirect tax advice to the Company during the year.
Shareholder voting on the Remuneration Report At the relevant Annual General Meetings, strong shareholder support was received for our resolutions on remuneration as summarised below.
Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Approval of the Policy Report 2014 896.7 million 99.4% 5.2 million 0.6% 7.3 million Approval of the Annual Report on 840.5 million 96.4% 31.5 million 3.6% 0.1 million Remuneration 2016 External Board appointments Executive Directors are normally entitled to accept external appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they received a fee.
Annual General Meeting The Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report will be submitted for an advisory shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 June 2017.
On behalf of the Board Charles Gurassa Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2017 103
