ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Composition of the Remuneration Committee As at 31 December 2016, the members of the Committee were all independent Non-Executive Directors: Number of meetings Members attended 4 4 Howard Flight Chairman 4 4 Keith Carby 4 4 Roger Farah Chairmans statement Craig Donaldson CEO and Vernon W. Hill, II Chairman On behalf of the Board, and as Chairman of the Remuneration attend meetings by invitation and assist the Committee in its Committee, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee deliberations as necessary other than in relation to their Report and also the Directors Remuneration Report the Report own pay and fees.
The Committee also receives assistance for the year ended 31 December 2016 including the Remuneration from the Chief People Officer, Danielle Harmer, who acts as policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, which describes the Secretary to the Committee.
how the Remuneration policy is implemented and discloses the amounts paid relating to the year ended 31 December 2016.
Following each meeting the Chairman provided a verbal update to the Board.
The Committee minutes are also The Companys Remuneration policy which is proposed to apply included in future Board papers.
Areas of discussion are for three years will be presented to shareholders for approval by outlined on the following page.
way of a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM in April and will take effect from that date.
The Companys report on remuneration for 2016 will also be presented to shareholders at the AGM along with this statement for approval by way of a Variable reward non-binding advisory vote.
Variable reward is based on key financial, risk, customer, people and culture objectives balanced with the personal behaviours, Remuneration consists of a base salary, appropriate benefit and contribution and delivery of individual Executive Directors.
pension provision and variable reward.
Variable reward is delivered through share-based awards: primarily share options, and Final decisions on 2016 variable reward cannot be made until cash, the receipt of which is subject to stretching personal and after we announce our annual results.
We are proposing Company performance conditions over one financial year, subject total variable reward of 52% of the maximum 200% allowed to deferral over five years.
All share options are awarded at the within our Remuneration policy for the CEO and variable market share price with no discount.
All employees throughout reward of 45% of the same maximum allowed within our the organisation are eligible for share options or an equivalent policy for the CFO in respect of the 2016 financial year.
At as there is a strong ethos of employee buy-in and ownership.
least 75% of variable reward is awarded as options which vest over up to five years.
The proposed figures are used in the All variable reward is subject to malus and clawback apart from single figure table in the Report on remuneration for 2016. the relatively small proportion of the non-deferred cash element paid after the end of the relevant financial year.
REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2017 Our approach to variable pay also ensures longer-term alignment with other stakeholders through deferral and the fact that it is paid We will be taking the following approach to implementation of via share-based awards, usually share options.
We do not operate the Remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2017: separate long-term incentive plans.
This is because as a growth organisation our short-term goals are aligned to our long-term Non-Executive Director fees strategic objectives.
The additional annual fee paid to members of the Remuneration Committee will increase from 5,000 p. a. to 10,000 p. a. and PERFORMANCE AND REWARD OUTCOMES IN THE to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will increase 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR from 15,000 to 20,000, from 1 April 2017.
This is to bring these fees in line with the market for this Committee.
All other It has been a significant year for Metro Bank: which listed on the Non-Executive Director fees will remain unchanged.
London Stock Exchange in March 2016 and achieved full quarter statutory profitability for the first time in Quarter 4.
In determining The fees for the Chairman, Vernon W. Hill, II, increased by 35% the Executive Directors remuneration this year, the Committee to 385,000 from 1 February 2017.
The Chairmans fees were has balanced the principle of paying for performance with the last increased in April 2014. need to motivate and retain our key leaders.
50 AN ANNU NUAL AL R RE EP PO OR RT T AN AND D A AC CC CO OUN UNTS TS 2 20 016 16 METRO BANK PLC Variable reward ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee will set appropriate and stretching annual variable reward targets for the year ended 31 December 2017 based The Committees primary objective is the design of a remuneration framework that promotes the growth and longon key financial, risk, customer, people and culture objectives.
The Committee is committed to providing transparency in term success of Metro Bank and reflects the unique culture and values, which deliver an outstanding customer experience.
decision making in respect of variable reward.
It will disclose It promotes sound and effective risk management and does not historic targets and measures: together with information relating encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of risk tolerated and to performance against those targets in the Annual report on agreed by the Board.
remuneration for the relevant year, except to the extent that It is in line with our business strategy and objectives, with a this is deemed to be commercially sensitive, in which case strong emphasis on long-term growth and share options as the it will be disclosed once it is deemed not to be sensitive.
major source of reward so that everyone is focused and At least 75% of any variable pay earned will be awarded as share rewarded for long-term, sustainable success.
options deferred over up to five years as explained in the policy.
It is actively aligned to the delivery of an outstanding customer experience, as a result of the way we measure behaviours and The Committee believes this approach to variable reward performance for individuals and how we capture and act upon will continue to focus the Executive Leadership Team customer insight across the organisation.
on growth and building the long-term and sustainable It rewards success and is an attractive framework for talented success of the business.
In fact, all employees are eligible individuals, in particular it strikes a balance between short-term to be included in our share schemes as part of our ethos to rewards whilst also recognising the long-term performance of enable colleagues to have meaningful equity ownership.
It complies with the FCA remuneration principles.
Salary The CEOs salary will remain unchanged in 2017.
Full details can be found on our website: www.
The CFOs salary will increase by 7.14% to 375,000 from 1 April 2017 to reflect the growth of the CFO role, and also how his Key areas discussed at Remuneration Committee in 2016 salary and total compensation compare to the pay data for FTSE 250 CFOs.
Area Discussion Policy Remuneration Committee Terms Pay and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Bank of Reference were taken into account when setting this Remuneration policy.
Remuneration policy Salary increases compare with the typical rate of increase to Variable reward scheme rules be awarded to employees across the Company with an overall old and new pay pot of 3% for all employees.
This is made up of a pay pot of Annual remuneration disclosure for 2015 2.25% for normal inflationary and performance-related pay rises.
We have also set aside additional funds for increases linked to Remuneration Base pay of Executive Directors, Company and individual role growth in line with our model and Non-Executive Directors and members or, realigning specific jobs better to the market data available.
ofthe Executive Leadership Team For these growth and market data realignment increases the Confirmation of application of deferred average pay rise is 10.97%.
executive pay increases Awards 2016 pay and variable reward quantum The Committee believes that the overall remuneration structure and multipliers continues to be appropriate.
It ensures there is significant Share options number available for alignment between the interests of Executive Directors granting and dilution policy and shareholders.
2016 Annual Reward Review outcomes We will of course keep the Remuneration policy to be approved and CEO summary by shareholders under review to ensure that our structures remain Share options for Advisory Board effective, competitive and aligned with the Companys objectives.
Share plans New Share Incentive Plan SIP which may Any changes to policy will be subject to shareholder approval.
be implemented in 2017 and offered to all colleagues As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I engage with relevant organisations concerning the Companys approach Pension Default fund changes to remuneration.
Pension provider review On behalf of the Committee, thank you for your continued Other Revised appointment letters for Chairman support.
I trust that you find the report informative and please and Non-Executive Directors and do contact me with any comments or questions you may have.
contracts for Executive Leadership Team Lord Flight Remuneration Committee Chairman 2 March 2017 51 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
