Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report To increase the maximum annual bonus opportunity from 100% Senior independent director and remuneration to 150% of salary for all executive directors to align with the committee chairs statement current maximum opportunity for the Executive Chairman : and On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration report for the financial year ended 30 April 2016.
Similarly For those subject to the changes, to introduce malus and claw to last year, this report is split into three sections: the remuneration back provisions to apply to deferred bonus awards, as well as committee the committee Chairmans Annual Statement, the tothe cash bonus.
Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Shareholder approval is also required to replicate the ASG programme.
The Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 64 to 76 wasapproved at the AGM on 25 September 2014, was amended No change is proposed to Kevin Loosemores bonus arrangement as at a General Meeting on 27 October 2014 and will next be put his maximum opportunity will remain 150% of salary and is governed toashareholder vote in 2017 at the latest.
However, we will be by the terms of his appointment in 2011.
The committee considers seeking shareholder approval for an amendment to the operation the proposed amendments to the annual bonus to be important of the annual bonus plan for the coming year.
This amendment and appropriate in the context of the recent changes to our board incorporates feedback we received from shareholders last year and and the competitive nature of the market for talent.
We intend to brings our bonus structure closer to best practice, and we will be implement theseproposed changes for FY17, subject to shareholder seeking a binding shareholder vote on the proposed amendment approval.
As no other fundamental changes to the Remuneration by a standalone resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
We will also Policy areproposed at this time, we will be presenting a stand-alone be seeking an amendment to enable the Board to utilize an ASG resolution summarising the bonus proposals for a vote at the AGM.
programme in the event of a material acquisition.
As the market in mature infrastructure evolves this is necessary to avoid the company As part of the transaction to acquire TAG, shareholders were finding itself at a competitive disadvantage in executing its strategy.
asked to approve new incentive arrangements for the senior team to recognize the increased size of the Group and the significant Corporate performance and business context incremental workload involved in integration activities.
As set out The Company has a clear strategy that defines an operating and in last years report, given the increased footprint and complexity financial model designed to deliver superior shareholder return.
of the business, the committees intention was to revisit certain This model is underpinned by a remuneration model that ensures aspects of executive remuneration during the year to ensure they rewards only accrue as value is delivered to shareholders.
We believe remained fit for purpose.
Following a review, the committee this tight linkage positively differentiates the Companys approach to determined that the Additional Responsibility Allowance ARA governance and value creation.
would cease for all individuals as of 1 February 2016.
Effective from 1 February 2016, Mike Phillips ARA of 120,000 was rolled into 2016 was the first full year of operation as the new business his salary of 350,000 to give a combined salary of 470,000. formed following the acquisition of TAG on 20 November 2014.
Kevin Loosemores ARA of 260,000 was rolled into his salary This created a global infrastructure software business with revenues of490,000 to give a combined salary of 750,000.
Overall, no of $1,245.0m and EBITDA of $532.5m which has traded in line with increase to salary was awarded to either individual.
The new salary our expectations of revenue and ahead of expectations for EBITDA.
levels are in line with market comparators for a company of Micro This was achieved during a year of significant change as we began Focus size, sector and complexity, and reflect the skills, level of implementation of the outputs from our integration review.
In experience and calibre of the individual executives.
addition, we announced the acquisition of Serena on 22 March 2016 which was subsequently completed on 2 May 2016.
The committee also determined that the ASGs made in relation to the 2014 acquisition of TAG have been instrumental in motivating Taking a longer-term view of performance, our reward strategy is the top executive team, ensuring the successful integration of TAG highly focused on our objective to achieve 15% to 20% compound and delivering exceptional shareholder value.
3,262,420 ASGs were annual return for shareholders.
awarded and remain outstanding compared with a shareholder approved total of 5,412,240.
Given the success of the ASG programme Remuneration decisions in the year ended and to increase our flexibility in negotiating transactions that create 30April 2016 substantial shareholder value, the Committee now proposes that the During the year, the committee reviewed the operation of the ASG programme is replicated on substantially the same terms as annual bonus, and is proposing to make a number of amendments those applied as part of the acquisition of TAG, including the same to the bonus element of the Directors Remuneration Policy, for limits on shareholder dilution.
The detailed terms of the ASGs which shareholder approval is required, as follows: implemented at the same time as the acquisition of TAG are set out in the relevant deeds of grant, copies of which are available on the To introduce a mandatory conversion of one-third of any bonus Companys investor relations website.
ASGs would be awarded in earned into deferred bonus awards over Company shares for the event that a material acquisition of a business or entity is made by allexecutive directors other than the Executive Chairman, to the Group.
Further details on the ARA and ASG are provided in the maximize long-term shareholder alignment, support retention Remuneration Policy on pages 68 to 69.
A summary of the key ina highly competitive and global talent market and in line with terms of the replicated ASG programme is set out in the Notice typical market practice.
The remaining two-thirds of the bonus ofAnnual General Meeting.
will continue to be paid in cash: To provide that deferred bonus awards will vest in full after three years, subject to continued employment.
Dividend equivalents will be payable over the vesting period in respect of deferred bonus awards that vest: 62 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 On 1 February 2016 Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann were promoted to the board as CEO of Micro Focus and CEO of SUSE, respectively, under the continued leadership of Kevin Loosemore as Executive Chairman.
The committee determined their remuneration packages in line with the approved Remuneration Policy: details are set out on pages 64 to 76.
Calendar of activities The calendar is driven by the business planning activity of the Group prior to the start of the new financial year.
The committee is fully informed of changes in business strategy, which may affect its decision making.
The annual timetable for the committee is set out below: Date Purpose Matters reviewed and or approved Q1 May-July Annual Report Directors Remuneration report: and Payments Bonus payments and any vesting of awards under all plans for the previous year: and Grants of equity awards to executives, top talent and all employee share schemes.
Q2 August-October AGM Investor engagement: and Review committee agenda for following year.
Q3 November-January Strategic Outlook Progress of half-year business performance: and Policy Review On-going appropriateness and effectiveness of remuneration and benefits policies strategy and their linkages to the overall business strategy: Review of external remuneration consultants: Review of revised remuneration reporting regulations: Corporate governance developments: and Business objectives for the following year.
Q4 February-April Year End Executive director, Company Secretary and executive committee remuneration Remuneration reviewsincluding benchmarking where appropriate of base salaries and benefits: Approvals Group-wide pay and benefit reviews: Setting of targets and performance conditions for grants to executives, top talent andemployee share plans: Setting of targets for annual performance-related bonus arrangements for executivesand employees for forthcoming year: Review of performance and terms of reference of committee: and Review of vesting of long-term incentive awards.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
We continue to value any feedback from shareholders and hope to receive your support at the AGM.
Karen Slatford Senior independent director 13 July 2016 63 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Policies on remuneration take account of the pay structure, employment conditions and relativities within the Group and also Compliance statement the industry sector.
They also take into consideration that individuals This Directors Remuneration report has been prepared on behalf may have different levels of experience, capability, and market demand of the board by the committee and complies with the provisions for their services.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large and appropriate to each executive director, the committee considers Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports benchmark remuneration data for selected comparable technology Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report has been prepared in companies as well as a broader Group of companies ofa similar line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance sizeto the Company.
Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
It is intended that a significant proportion of remuneration will continue to be performance-related.
Conditions for performancerelated bonuses and long-term incentives, i. e. Underlying Adjusted Directors Remuneration Policy EBITDA and EPS respectively, will represent challenging targets which are designed to increase shareholder value and are linked to This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for executive the Companys financial and operational strategy.
The committee directors in accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 will review the performance conditions annually to ensure that the Act.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders theyremaindemanding and appropriate.
atthe 2014 AGM and took effect from that date.
It was amended and reapproved by shareholders at the General Meeting on 27 October In line with the Investment Associations guidelines on responsible 2014.
The report below is as disclosed in the 2014 Directors investment disclosure, the committee will ensure that the incentive Remuneration report except for a number of minor changes as follows: structure for executive directors and senior management will notraise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by References to financial years have been updated where appropriate: inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no The amendments approved by shareholders on 27 October 2014 restriction on the committee that prevents it from taking into in respect of ARAs and ASGs have been included: account corporate governance on ESG matters.
Pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the latest salaries, benefits, incentive opportunities, and ASGs: Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion that Malus and claw back provisions have been introduced to the partof the report has been properly prepared in accordance with Long Term Incentive Plan awards from July 2015: the Companies Act 2006.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The announcement made by the Company on 22 August 2014 published on the Companys website with regard to recruitment Terms of reference awards and appointment of interim executive directors has been The committee is responsible for reviewing remuneration arrangements included for clarity: and for members of the board and for providing general guidance on aspects of Remuneration Policy throughout the Group.
Its terms of Confirmation that the non-executive director fees did not apply reference include the following: to the non-executive directors representing Wizard, the Companys former controlling shareholder.
Determine and agree with the board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, CEO and other In addition, the policy has been updated to include the proposed executive directors, the Company Secretary and other members of amendments to the operation of the annual bonus, set out on page the executive management team as appointed from time to time : 66, and the replicated ASG programme, which is summarized at pages 69 to 70 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting which the Determine the total individual remuneration package of each Company is asking shareholders to approve at the 2016 AGM.
Itis executive director and other senior executives including bonuses, intended that the revised policy in relation to the annual bonus and incentive payments, share options and any other share awards: replicated ASG programme will come into effect from the date of the AGM.
Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each executive director and other senior executives: The Companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors and their direct reports is established by the committee and approved by Approve the framework of salaries for senior managers, the board.
The individual remuneration package of each executive determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes director is determined by the committee.
No executive director or operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments: employee participates in discussions relating to the setting of their own remuneration.
Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by theboard and shareholders: The objective of the Groups remuneration policies is that all employees, including executive directors, should receive appropriate remuneration Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience.
Remuneration throughout the Company or Group: and packages are designed to enable the Group to attract and retain keyemployees by ensuring they are remunerated appropriately and Review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the competitively and that they are motivated to achieve the highest level Remuneration Policy.
ofGroup performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
64 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The full terms of reference of the committee are available from the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website http: investors.
The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy that was approved at the AGM on 25 September 2014 and subsequently amended at the General Meeting held on 27 October 2014 to include the ARA and ASGs as part of the shareholder vote to approve the acquisition of TAG.
For these purposes, payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration Policy table Base salary Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Supports the recruitment Normally reviewed annually.
Increases Ordinarily, salary increases will None, although overall and retention of executive generally apply from the first quarter bein line with increases awarded performance of the directors of the calibre of the financial year.
to other employees of the Group.
individual is considered required to deliver the However, increases may be by the committee when Groups strategy.
When determining base salary levels, madeabove this level at setting and reviewing consideration is given to the following: thecommittees discretion salaries annually.
Rewards executives for the to takeaccount of individual performance of their role.
Pay increases for other employees circumstances such as: of the Group: Set at a level that allows Increase in scope and fully flexible operation of The individuals skills, experience responsibility: our variable pay plans.
and responsibilities: Increase to reflect the Pay at companies of a similar individuals development and size, complexity and international performance in role e. g. for a scope, in particular those within new appointment where base the technology sector, the salary may be increased over FTSE250, US listed technology time rather than set directly companies and privately owned atthe level of the previous software companies: and incumbent or market level : and Corporate and individual performance.
Benefits Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides a competitive The Group provides a range of Set at a level which the None.
andcost-effective benefits benefits which may include a car committeeconsiders: package to executives to benefit or cash equivalent, private assist them to carry out medical insurance, permanent Appropriately positioned their duties effectively.
against comparable roles incompanies of a similar Additional benefits may also be sizeandcomplexity in provided in certain circumstances therelevantmarket: and which may include but are not limited to relocation expenses, Provides a sufficient level housing allowance, school fees and ofbenefit based on the role temporary increase in responsibilities.
andindividual circumstances, Other benefits may be offered such as relocation.
ifconsidered appropriate and reasonable by the committee.
65 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Pension Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides a competitive Defined contribution plan with 20% of base salary.
post-retirement benefit, Company contributions set as in a way that manages apercentage of base salary.
the overall cost to the Company.
An individual may elect to receivesome or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Annual bonus Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Rewards and incentivizes Measures and targets are set annually Prior to 2016, the maximum The measures and the achievement of and pay out levels are determined annual bonus opportunity was: targets are set by the annualfinancial and bythe committee after the year committee each year.
endbased on performance against 150% of salary and ARA for Themeasures that those targets.
Executive Chairman: and applied for the financial year 2016, and that will The committee may, in exceptional 100% of salary and ARA for apply for the financial circumstances, amend the bonus pay other executive directors.
year 2017, are described out should the formulaic outcome in the Annual Report not, in the view of the committee, Effective from the financial onRemuneration.
reflect overall business performance yearended 30 April 2017, the or individual contribution.
Any such maximum opportunity is 150% of Targets are set that adjustments would be disclosed in salary for all Executive Directors.
driveimprovement in the the relevant years Annual Report on underlying performance Remuneration and bonuses would of the business ensuring a not exceed the stated maximum.
Up to and including 2016, the annual Currently measures bonus was delivered in cash.
Effective arelimited to growth from the financial year ended 30 April inUnderlying Adjusted 2016, all executive directors with the EBITDA excluding exception of the Executive Chairman theimpact of in year who is already asignificant shareholder acquisitions and currency.
in the Company are required to defer The maximum bonus will one-third of their bonus into an award be achieved by growing over Company shares for aperiod of the Underlying Adjusted three years.
EBITDA by 10% year-onyear excluding the impact In the case of fraud, misstatement of in year acquisitions ofaccounts or misconduct, malus and currency on a andclaw back provisions are in place straight-line basis.
for a period of up to one year after abonus payment has been made This may change if ora bonus share has vested.
needed to support achange in businessstrategy.
Dividend equivalents are payable over the vesting period in respect of the bonus share awards which vest.
66 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Motivates and rewards the Contingent awards of performance Maximum opportunity contained The performance measures achievement of long-term shares structured as nil-cost options within the plan rules is 200% and respective weightings business goals.
are made annually with vesting of salary.
may vary year-on-year to dependent upon the achievement reflect strategic priorities, Supports the creation of of performance conditions over The maximum face value of subject to retaining at least shareholder value through three years.
annual awards will be 200% 50% on EPS.
the delivery of strong of salary.
market performance The committee has discretion to Details of the measure and aligned with the long-term decide whether and to what extent performance targets used business strategy, both targets have been met, and if an for specific LTIP grants are organic and inorganic.
exceptional event occurs that causes included in the Annual the committee to consider that the Report on Remuneration.
Supports achievement of targets are no longer appropriate, Threshold performance our strategy by targeting the committee may adjust them, will result in 25% vesting.
performance under our provided the new conditions are no keyfinancial performance tougher or easier than the original Awards granted from indicators of revenue conditions at the time they were set.
the date of this report growth and EPS growth.
onwards under the LTIP The committee has the discretion to share scheme are subject Aligns executive interest adjust the LTIP outcomes to ensure to malus and claw back with those of long-term alignment of pay with performance to provisions.
ensure the outcome is a true reflection may apply at the discretion of the performance of the Company.
of the committee if Any such adjustments would be financial statements are disclosed in the relevant years corrected or published AnnualReport on remuneration.
thatindicate the relevant performance was materially worse than in the financial statements used to assess vesting.
All-employee share plans Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides an opportunity UK resident executive directors Participation limits are those set Not applicable.
fordirectors to voluntarily areentitled to participate in a tax by the local tax authorities from invest in the Company.
approved all-employee plan, The time to time.
Micro Focus Sharesave Plan 2006, under the same terms as other employees.
Under this plan they make monthly savings over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Micro Focus shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
67 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Additional Responsibility Allowance Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Ensures the success of ARAs will be a fixed amount per Kevin Loosemore: capped None.
the acquisition of TAG individual, paid on a monthly basis at260,000 per annum by Micro Focus and the subject to the recipient being in successful integration employment with the Group on Mike Phillips: capped at ofTAG and the Group.
120,000 per annum Recognizes the significant Payments will be made during a Stephen Murdoch: initially incremental workload and period of at least six months but not at100,000 per annum responsibility and allows exceeding three years from the date for a revised salary to be of completion of the acquisition.
inaggregate 520,000 The ARA does not contain malus perannum orclaw back provisions.
Subject to review every six monthsfor the first 18 months and then at any time thereafter.
Any amendment will take effect on three months notice, except ifa revised salary has been determined, in which case any entitlement to the ARAwill ceaseimmediately.
The maximum amount payable under the ARA to all recipients will be no more than 1.0m per annum in aggregate.
Effective from 1 February 2016, the ARA is no longer payable.
68 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Additional Share Grant Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Aligns executive interest ASGs take the form of nil cost In respect of the ASGs granted in The percentage of the with those of long-term optionswhich may be awarded respect of the acquisition of TAG, ASG which will vest is: shareholders and ensures during the first 18 months from the Kevin Loosemore, Mike Phillips the success of a material date of completion of the acquisition andStephen Murdoch and Nils i 0% if the Shareholder acquisition by whatever by whatever means, with vesting Brauckmann will receive ASGs Return Percentage is means of a business or dependent upon the achievement overno more than 947,140 50%orless: entity made by the Group.
ofa performance condition over ordinary shares, 676,529 ordinary three years.
shares, 405,917 ordinary shares ii 100% if the and 405,917 ordinary shares Shareholder Return The ASGs do not contain malus respectively subject to appropriate Percentage is 100% orclaw back provisions.
adjustment in the event of any or more: and capitalization issue, rights issue oropen offer, sub-division or a percentage consolidation of shares or determined on a reduction of capital or any other straight-line basis variation of capital or demerger between i and ofall or part of the business.
In respect of the acquisition of The Shareholder Return TAGthe number of ordinary shares Percentage will reflect subject to ASGs granted to any dividends paid and any other one participant could not increase in share price exceed 1,082,448 subject to from a reference price appropriate adjustment in the fixed at, or following, event of any capitalization issue, thecommencement of rights issue or open offer, subdiscussions relating to division or consolidation of shares therelevant transaction or reduction of capital or any other to the average of the variation of capital or demerger of closing share price on all or part of the business.
the20 business days prior to the vesting date.
The replicated ASG programme The vesting date is the third anniversary of contains a limit under which the thedate of grant or an number of ordinary shares subject earlierdate determined to ASGs granted pursuant to an by the committee.
individual limit under any specific ASG programme cannot exceed 0.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the time of completion of the acquisition.
Total dilution pursuant to a single ASG programme would not exceed 2.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the time of completion of the acquisition.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the board after taking appropriate advice.
The Company currently has an Executive Chairman and two Chief Executive Officers.
The section below details the Companys policy on how the non-executive directors, including a non-executive Chairman, will be remunerated.
69 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Non-executive directors fees Element of pay and Operation alignment with strategy Provides an appropriate The non-executive Chairman and non-executive directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are reward to attract and paid for chairmanship of board committees and for the roles of senior independent director and retain high-calibre deputyChairman: individuals.
Fees are currently paid in cash but the Company may choose to provide some of the fees in shares.
Fees are set at a level which: Reflects the commitment and contribution that is expected from the non-executive Chairman andnon-executive directors: and Is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market, especially companies of a similar size and international scope to the Company, in particular those within the technology sector, the FTSE 250, US listed technology companies and privately owned software companies.
Increases will typically be in line with market levels of fee inflation.
In exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, material misalignment with the market or a change in the complexity, responsibility or time commitment required to fulfil a non-executive director role the board has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to fee levels to ensure they remain market competitive and fair to the director.
Aggregate fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in the Companys articles of association, currently 1m.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors Annual Report onRemuneration for the relevant financial year.
Non-executive directors representing Wizard representative directors are not paid a fee.
Non-executive directors and representative directors do not participate in any incentive scheme.
The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out below, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
Selection of performance measures The Companys core objective is to continue to deliver shareholder returns of 15% to 20% per annum over the long-term.
The committee continues to believe that a combination of Underlying Adjusted EBITDA, Revenue Growth, Cash flow, EPS and Total Shareholder Return remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance of the Company.
The performance measures used under the annual bonus are selected annually to help the Group achieve its core objective.
The annual bonus plan is currently linked to growth in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA.
Vesting of LTIP awards is currently linked to growth in EPS as the committee believes that this aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value, which together with the annual bonus metrics provide a strong line of sight for the executives and supports the long-term strategy.
Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Group operates.
70 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In relation to the annual bonus plan, the committee retains Remuneration policy for other employees discretion over: The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles to those for executive directors.
Salary reviews The participants: the determination of the bonus payment: take into account Group performance, local pay and market thetiming of payment: and dealing with a change of control: conditions and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All non-commission employees participate in a bonus Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules scheme which operates on the same metrics for all levels in the ofthe plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Company from entry level employees to executive directors.
The annual review of performance measures and weighting, Around 100 of our senior managers and other key employees also and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year: and receive LTIP awards.
Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by individual.
All UK employees The operation of malus and claw back.
are eligible to participate in the all-employee share plans on the same terms.
The plans are available to 22 other countries worldwide.
In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, the committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set All of our UK employees are able to participate in our Flexible different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or Benefits programme.
divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is ASGs in relation to the 2014 acquisition of TAG were made by required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and theremuneration committee in the first 18 months following the are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above acquisition to certain senior managers or employees of the Enlarged discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Group and new joiners who were deemed critical to the delivery of Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject the acquisition and integration of TAG and Base Micro Focus, with of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
the total number of recipients including executive directors not exceeding 15.
In relation to ARA, the committee has discretion to revise the allowances for Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips downwards The committee will operate the annual bonus and LTIP according orfor other recipients upwards or downwards following a review to their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance but based on current assessment can envisage no circumstances with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The committee retains where any would be revised upwards.
As of 1 February 2016, discretion, consistent with market practice, with regard to the the committee has determined to cease ARAs for the executive operation and administration of these plans.
These include, directors, and to instead roll the ARAs into their base salary.
butare not limited to, the following in relation to the LTIP: The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Sharesave and The participants: the timing for granting awards: the size of approved section of the LTIP will be as permitted under HMRC rules anaward subject to maximum limits set out in the policy table: and the Listing Rules.
Details of share awards granted to existing and the determination of vesting: executive directors are set out on pages 83 to 85 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or their original award terms.
restructuring of the Group: Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules ofthe plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
71 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Illustrations of the application of Remuneration Policy The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the executive directors based on awards made in the year, and the potential split between the different elements of pay underthree different performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Potential remuneration opportunities are based on Micro Focus current Remuneration Policy including theproposed new bonus opportunity, applied tosalaries as at 1May 2016.
Note that nofurther ASGs will be made in relation tothe 2014 acquisition ofTAG.
72 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The minimum scenario shows salary, pension and benefits only.
The committee published the following announcement on the These are the elements of the executive directors remuneration Company website to clarify the Remuneration Policy when hiring packages that are not at risk.
anew executive director: The on-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, 1.
The remuneration package for a new executive director plusapay-out of 50% of the maximum annual bonus and 25% including incentive opportunities will normally be consistent vestingfor long-term incentives excluding ASG awards.
with the policy for current executive directors, but in any event the maximum total level of award that may be made under the The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full annual bonus and share plans in any one year will not be above pay-out of all incentives excluding ASG awards.
500% of salary: Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share 2.
Buy-out awards as previously disclosed will generally be based pricemovements.
solely on remuneration lost on leaving a former employer and will have a fair value no greater than the awards forfeited.
In doing so the committee will take account of relevant factors Recruitment of executive directors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, The remuneration package for a new executive director would the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and beset in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration thetimeframe of awards: policy in force at the time of appointment and taking account of the experience and skills of the individual and prevailing market 3.
The committee does not envisage any cash payment being conditions.
In determining the appropriate remuneration structure offered which could be construed as a golden hello: and and levels, the committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that the arrangements are in the best interests 4.
The committee will consult with and seek approval from ofthe Company and its shareholders.
The committee may also shareholders in advance of operating outside the maximum make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy-out limit described above.
incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer and may exercise the discretion available under the relevant In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring ListingRule to facilitate this, i. e. in the event that a structure that anew executive director, the committee will take into account isdifferent from those detailed in the Remuneration Policy would relevant factors: this may include the calibre of the individual, local be required.
For example, the committee may offer additional market practice, the existing remuneration arrangements for other cashand or share-based elements as part of the buy-out when executives and the business circumstances.
The committee seeks itconsiders these tobein the best interests of the Company and, toensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both therefore, of its shareholders.
Any such buy-out payments would theCompany and its shareholders and not to pay more than bebased solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former isappropriate.
employer, and wouldbe no higher in fair value terms and would reflect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, time horizons andperformance requirements attaching to that Internal appointment of executive directors remuneration.
However, the committee has the discretion in In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element unforeseen and exceptional circumstances to offer awards of awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out variable remuneration in excess of the maximums stated in the according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other on-going policy table if judged necessary to procure the services of the remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may mostappropriate candidate.
continue, provided that they are disclosed in the following yearsAnnual Report on Remuneration.
For external and internalappointments, the committee may agree that the Companywill meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate andwithin the limits set by the committee.
73 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Appointment of interim executive directors The committee also recognizes that there may be times when Provision Detailed terms itisappropriate to appoint an interim executive director or in exceptional circumstance require that a non-executive director takes Normal Base salary, pension and benefits: on an executive function on a short-term basis.
Remuneration for remuneration Company car or cash allowance: interim executive directors will be determined within the existing arrangements Private health insurance: Remuneration Policy.
The committee retains the discretion to make Life assurance: appropriate one-off remuneration arrangements for non-executive 25 days paid annual leave: directors, including a non-executive Chairman, outside of the Participation in annual bonus plan, standard policy at these times.
Any such arrangements will be subject to plan rules: and detailed in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules.
In exceptional circumstances where a non-executive director Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in takeson an executive function on an interim basis, the director the event of a change of control.
Details willreceive an increase to their cash fee reflecting the market of the treatment of LTIP awards are ratefor that role only for the duration of the appointment.
Non-executive directors will not be eligible for an annual bonus Notice period A maximum of 12 months notice from orLTIP in the event of a significant merger or acquisition.
The the Company or the director.
This will committee commits to consulting with and seeking approval from bestandardized at six months in 2017. shareholders in advance of operating outside these policy limits.
Termination Payment in lieu of notice equal to: Executive directors appointed as a result of payment A maximum of 12 months mergers and acquisitions basesalary: As merger and acquisition activity is part of the Companys strategy, the committee recognizes that such activity may give rise Pension supplement: and to situations where there are exceptional circumstances in relation to executive directors and certain senior management.
Should it be Cash supplement in lieu of necessary to match compensation in an acquired company and or otherbenefits.
adjust compensation of existing management to deliver significant shareholder benefits then the Company may wish to offer awards Restrictive During employment and for a maximum of variable remuneration in excess of the maximum levels stated in covenants of 12 months after leaving.
As part of the acquisition of TAG during the last financial year two additional incentives were agreed by shareholders to compensate a small number of executives and senior managers for the incremental workload involved in the integration.
These twoadditional incentives, the ARA and ASGs, are described in detail in the policy table.
Executive directors service agreements The Companys policy is that executive directors service agreements normally continue until the directors agreed retirement date or suchother date as the parties agree are terminable on no more than one years notice and provide no entitlement to the payment ofa pre-determined amount on termination of employment in anycircumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases, career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment fora definedperiod.
The table above provides details of the main terms of the executive directors service contracts and termination payments not otherwise set out in this report.
74 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus and this is atthe discretion of the committee.
Where an executive director Executive Date of service contract ceases to be employed by reason of death, disability, ill-heath or director anyother reason at the committees discretion they may receive apro-rata bonus for the year of cessation, paid on the normal Kevin Loosemore 14 April 2011 payment date with committee discretion to accelerate, based onperformance against predetermined targets and time served Mike Phillips 7 September 2010 during the year.
1 Stephen Murdoch 16 April 2014 The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
The committee will 2 Nils Brauckmann 27 January 2016 determine when and if awards vest and the period during which awards may be exercised.
1 S tephen Murdoch was appointed as CEO of Micro Focus and appointed Share options lapse if the participant leaves employment in case tothe board on 1February 2016.
2 N ils Brauckmann was appointed as CEO of SUSE and appointed to the of termination for cause or resignation.
In other cases, normally board on 1February 2016. including death and ill health, injury or disability, redundancy and retirement, or any other reason at the committees discretion, awards would typically vest early and be pro-rated for time and If an executive director commits a material breach of their service performance where relevant.
contract, any crime, or act of gross misconduct or dishonesty, the Company is entitled to summarily terminate the service contract ASG awards will lapse following voluntary resignation, breach without notice or payment in lieu of notice or other compensation.
ofcontract, gross misconduct or gross incompetence, subject to Such a contract term cannot however, as a rule of law, affect the committee discretion.
In other cases, the ASG will vest, subject executive directors statutory rights such as rights in respect of tothe performance condition, and become exercisable on the unfair dismissal.
normal vesting date for a period of six months.
All of the executive directors service contracts were entered Change of control intobefore 27 June 2012 with the exception of Stephen Murdoch The rules of the LTIP provide that, in the event of a change of appointed 16 April 2014 and Nils Brauckmann 21 November 2014 control, awards vest to the extent that the performance conditions and have not been modified or renewed following their execution.
where applicable are satisfied at the date of such event.
Any As such, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office suchearly vesting would generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
thatare required to be made under them are not required to be Thecommittee may vary the level of vesting, if it believes that consistent with the policy.
exceptional circumstances warrant this, taking into account anyother factors it believes to be relevant in deciding to what Loss of office payments extentanaward will vest.
Except for Kevin Loosemore, there are no predetermined special provisions for directors with regard to compensation in the event The directors may exchange their awards over Company shares of loss of office: compensation is based on what would be earned forawards in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the by way of salary, pension entitlement and other contractual offer allow this.
benefits over the notice period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, and a payment in lieu of notice made, payments Awards held under all-employee plans would be expected to to the executive director may be staged over the notice period, veston a change of control and those which have to meet specific at the same interval as salary would have been paid.
requirements to benefit from permitted tax benefits would vest in accordance with those requirements.
In respect of Kevin Loosemore, his loss of office compensation isequal to 150% of his basic pay to reflect the value of salary ASG awards will vest and become exercisable in full immediately andbenefits.
For this purpose, salary is based on the sum of prior to and for one month following a change of control.
hisbasesalary and ARA if applicable.
Other executive directors must take all reasonable steps toobtain alternative employment during the notice period and payments made by the Company will be reduced to reflect any payments received in respect of alternative employment.
75 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued All appointments of non-executive directors are subject to Policy in respect of external board appointments electionby shareholders at the first AGM of the Company after We recognize that external non-executive directorships are appointment and to re-election on an annual basis thereafter.
beneficial for both the executive director concerned and the Allthe directors will be offering themselves for election or Company.
With prior approval from the board, each serving re-election at the AGM to be held on 22 September 2016. executive director can undertake external non-executive directorships.
At the discretion of the board, executive Karen Slatford is the senior independent non-executive director,  to retain fees received in respect andalso chairs the nomination committee.
Prescott Ashe and David Golob did not serve on any board Non-executive directors terms of appointment committees and did not receive a fee for their services.
The non-executive directors terms of appointment are recorded inletters of appointment.
The required notice from the Company Shareholding guidelines isthree months in all cases.
The non-executive directors are We believe executive directors and other senior managers should notentitled to any compensation for loss of office and stand for beencouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal election or re-election as appropriate at each AGM.
Details of wealthin shares of the Company.
Over a period of three years from theletters of appointment of each non-executive director who appointment, executive directors are required to build a holding in hasserved as a director of the Company at any time during the the Groups shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to two financial year are set out below: times base salary for the Executive Chairman: 1.5times for other executive directors.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken intoaccount when determining eligibility Non-executive Appointment or Expiration date for LTIPawards.
director re-appointment date Non-executive directors do not have a shareholding requirement.
1 Tom Skelton 23 October 2014 24 September 2015 Consultation with employees Although the committee does not consult directly with Karen Slatford 5 July 2016 5 July 2019 employeeson the Directors Remuneration Policy, the committeedoes consider the general basic salary increase, Tom Virden 5 January 2015 5 January 2018 thebenchmarking of employee compensation and benefits, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions Richard Atkins 16 April 2014 16 April 2017 forthebroader employee population when determining Remuneration Policy for the executive directors.
3 Karen Geary 8 January 2015 8 January 2018 Consideration of shareholder views Steve The committee also considers developments in institutional Schuckenbrock 1 February 2016 1 February 2019 investors best practice expectations and the views expressed by shareholders when setting directors remuneration.
We remain Amanda Brown 1 July 2016 1 July 2019 committed to shareholder dialogue and take an active interest invoting outcomes.
We consult extensively with our major 1 Tom Skelton stepped down from the board on 24 September 2015. shareholders when setting our remuneration policy.
If any 2 P rescott Ashe and David Golob were appointed to the board pursuant to oftheseshareholders express concerns relating to our policy, the Relationship Agreement entered into by the Company, Wizard Parent wewould endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, LLC and the Wizard Shareholders on 20November 2014.
Following a tounderstandand respond to any issues they may have.
reduction in Wizards shareholding they both stepped down from the board on 1February 2016.
3 K aren Geary stepped down as a non-executive director on 1 March 2016 inorder to take up an executive position in the Company.
76 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Agenda during the year ended 30 April 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration The key activities of the committee were as follows: The following section provides the details of how the Remuneration Approval of the Directors Remuneration report for the year Policy was implemented during the year.
ended 30 April 2016: Remuneration committee membership during Reviewed salaries of the executive directors and the the year ended 30April 2016 ExecutiveChairmans direct reports, including the on-going The committee comprises four independent non-executive directors appropriateness of the ARA: which we see as fundamental to ensuring that the remuneration ofexecutive directors and senior executives is set by people who Reviewed bonus payments and LTIP against targets: areindependent and have no personal financial interest, other thanasshareholders, in the matters discussed.
Amanda Brown was Conducted annual review and ratification of remuneration appointed to the committee on 12 July 2016 and will be appointed packages for executive directors and senior executives, Chair after the AGM on 22 September 2016.
The committee met incorporating institutional investor feedback: four times during the year under review.
Attendance by individual committee members at the meetings is detailed below.
Considered current guidelines on executive compensation fromadvisory bodies and institutional investors: Committee Membership Number of Reviewed Group-wide pay and benefits: member throughout meetings the year attended Reviewed the ARA in accordance with financial performance andprogress of the integration plan: Karen Slatford Yes 4 Established targets for annual cash bonuses for the year Chair ended30 April 2017: and 1 Tom Skelton No 2 Reviewed the performance and terms of reference of thecommittee.
Tom Virden Yes 4 2 Karen Geary No 3 External advisors The committee last reviewed their external advisors in 2012 and Richard Atkins Yes 4 appointed Kepler Associates a brand of Mercer.
Kepler attends committee meetings where appropriate and provides advice on remuneration for executives, analysis on all elements of the 1 T om Skelton stepped down from the board on 24 September 2015.
2 Remuneration Policy and regular market and best practice updates.
K aren Geary was appointed to the board on 8 January 2015 and stepped down on1March 2016.
Kepler reports directly to the committee chair, and is a signatory tothe Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Keplers The committee invited the views of each of the Executive Chairman, parent, Mercer, does not provide any other services to the Company.
the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Human Resources The committee is satisfied that the advice it receives from Kepler Director during the year to provide advice on specific questions isindependent.
The terms of Keplers engagement are available raised by the committee and on matters relating to the performance from the Company Secretary and they are paid on a time and and remuneration of senior managers.
They did not participate in materials fee for projects outside the scope of their retainer.
discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The Company Thecommittee seeks advice on legal matters from a number Secretary attended each meeting as secretary to the committee.
The committee continually assesses  by its advisors on remuneration matters.
Thefeesincurred with Kepler in the year under review were 23,755 2015: 38,600, plus VAT.
77 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Single figure for total remuneration audited The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for directors for the financial year ended 30 April 2016 and 2015.
2 T axable benefits include car benefits, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
3 P ension: the Companys pension contribution or cash allowance during the year.
4 A nnual bonus: payment for performance during the year.
5 L TIP: the value at vesting of awards vesting on performance over the three year periods ended 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015.
The 2016 figures are based on the share price on the date of vesting 26 June 2016 of 1,530 pence.
6 S tephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann were appointed to the board on 1 February 2016.
Their 2016 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits in respect ofservice as executive directors, their full-year bonus and full-year LTIP.
Stephen Murdoch also served as an executive director up to 20 November 2014: his 2015 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits in respect of his service as an executive director, and his full-year bonus and full-year LTIP.
7 Converted at 30 April 2016, using an exchange rate of USD 0.68 to 1.
8 Karen Slatfords base salary, ARA and fees include 80,000 of base salary for the year and 2,000 back-dated base salary.
9 Steve Schuckenbrock was appointed to the board on 1 February 2016.
78 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Base salary Market positioning of base salary is approached on an individual basis, taking account of advice received from the committees independent external advisors regarding the salary levels for similar roles in selected groups of comparable companies and the individual performance and experience of each executive.
The aim is for base salary to be set with reference to the market median, dependent on thecommittees view of individual and Group performance.
Following the acquisition of TAG, the committee approved ARAs to the executive directors with effect from 20 November 2014 on amonthly rate of 21,667 for Kevin Loosemore and 10,000 for Mike Phillips.
The ARA is included in the determination of incentive opportunities and pension benefits.
Payments are reviewed every six months in line with overall Group financial performance and the progress of the integration plan which covers all aspects of the effort involved in delivering a fully integrated business.
Following a careful review, the committee determined to cease all ARAs as of 1 February 2016 and to roll the ARAs into the base salary.
No increase to overall salary was awarded.
The salaries are broadly in line with the market for a company of Micro Focus size and complexity and reflect the skills, experience and calibre of the individual executives.
The table below shows the salaries for the executive directors.
At 1 February At 1 May Executive director 2016 2015 % change 1 Kevin Loosemore 750,000 750,000 0% 2 Mike Phillips 470,000 470,000 0% Stephen Murdoch 500,000 n a n a Nils Brauckmann 500,000 n a n a 1 Comprises base salary of 490,000 and ARA of 260,000.
2 Comprises base salary of 350,000 and ARA of 120,000.
Annual bonus for the year ended 30 April 2016 audited For the year ended 30 April 2016, the maximum bonus opportunity was 150% of salary and ARA for Kevin Loosemore and 100% of salaryand ARA for theother executive directors.
The executive directors are on the same bonus plan as all non-commissioned employees and their bonuses are capped at the percentages above.
There is no bonus pay out if Underlying Adjusted EBITDA on a constant currency basis, excluding theimpact of in year acquisitions, is the same as the previous year and maximum bonuses are earned if the increase in thismeasure is10%ormore.
Underlying Adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of in year acquisitions grew by 10% over the figure for theyear ended30April 2015 on a constant currency basis and so maximum bonuses were paid.
Underlying Underlying Adjusted Adjusted EBITDA growth EBITDA growth EBITDA growth Maximum % of Executive director threshold maximum achieved bonus maximum Bonus for 2016 Kevin Loosemore 0% 10% 10% 1,125,000 100% 1,125,000 Mike Phillips 0% 10% 10% 470,000 100% 470,000 Stephen Murdoch 0% 10% 10% 125,000 100% 125,000 Nils Brauckmann 0% 10% 10% 97,891 100% 97,891 Vesting of long-term incentives for performance to the year ended 30 April 2016 The awards granted on 26 June 2013 to the executive directors vested on 26 June 2016.
Vesting of the award was based on annualized EPS growth in excess of RPI over the three years ended 30 April 2016, as set out in the table below.
Annualized EPS growth of the Company in excess of RPI over the performance period Vesting percentage of the shares subject to an award Less than 3% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis Equal to or above 9% p. a.
100% 79 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued The annualized Diluted Adjusted EPS growth rate over the performance period exceeded the performance criteria of 10.57% being RPI of 1.57% plus 9%.
The performance criteria have therefore been met and the awards accordingly vested in full on 26June 2016.
The table below details the executive directors 2013 awards.
The awards have been valued based on the closing price onthe date of vesting, 24June 2016, of 1,530 pence.
Estimated Executive director Interest held % vesting Interest vesting Vesting date value Kevin Loosemore 142,132 100% 142,132 26 June 2016 2,174,620 Mike Phillips 63,959 100% 63,959 26 June 2016 978,573 1 Stephen Murdoch 39,884 100% 39,884 26 June 2016 610,225 1 Stephen Murdochs awards were made to him prior to his appointment to the board.
Share interest awards made during the year audited On 17 July 2015, Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips were granted awards of nil-cost options under the LTIP.
On 23 March 2016, StephenMurdoch and Nils Brauckmann were granted awards of nil-cost options under the LTIP in relation to their promotion to the board.
They also received awards on 17 July 2015, prior to their appointment to the board.
Details are provided in the table below.
Awards Middle Market Face value at made during closing price at Face value at date of award Executive director Date of grant the year date of award date of award % of salary Kevin Loosemore 17 July 2015 111,275 13.68 1,522,242 203% Mike Phillips 17 July 2015 52,299 13.68 715,450 152% Stephen Murdoch 17 July 2015 44,510 13.68 608,897 122% 23 March 2016 26,024 15.54 404,413 81% Nils Brauckmann 17 July 2015 17,722 13.68 242,437 62% 23 March 2016 26,024 15.54 404,413 104% In respect of both the 17 July 2015 and 23 March 2016 awards, the three year period over which performance will be measured will be 1May 2015 to 30 April 2018.
The awards are eligible to vest, subject to EPS performance, on the third anniversary of the grant date.
The table below sets out targets for the EPS measure and vesting of the awards: Annualized EPS growth of the Company in excess of RPI over the performance period Vesting percentage of the shares subject to an award Less than 3% p. a.
100% 80 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Percentage change in Executive Chairman remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Executive Chairmans remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all staff that were on the corporate bonus scheme in both years and were employed at the beginning and end of the financial year.
We have selected our staff on the corporate bonus scheme unchanged from last year for thiscomparison as it is considered to be the most relevant for structure of remuneration.
Other Executive Chairman 000 employees Base package and ARA 2016 2015 % change % change Salary 750 605 24.0% 4.9% Taxable benefits 31 35 -11.4% 1.4% Annual performance bonus 1,125 908 23.9% 12.4% Total 1,906 1,548 23.1% 5.5% Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below shows the value, by 30 April 2016, of 100 invested The table below shows the percentage change in total employee in Micro Focus International plc on 30 April 2009 compared with pay expenditure and shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share share buy-backs from the financial year ended 30 April 2015 to Software and Computer Services Indices.
The intervening points thefinancial year ended 30 April 2016. areat the Companys financial year ends.
The FTSE 250 and the FTSEAll-Share Software and Computer Services Indices have beenchosen as they are considered the most relevant indices 2016 2015 % forcomparison with the Company.
$m $m change Distribution to shareholders Historical TSR performance Dividends paid 105.2 72.7 44.7% Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the Return of Value 131.6 n a seven years to 30 April 2016 1 Employee remuneration 509.7 348.2 46.4% 700 1 2015 includes TAG employee emoluments for the post acquisition period only.
600 500 The directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 400 30April 2016 of 49.74 cents 37.40 pence per share 2015: 33.0 cents 300 21.2pence.
200 Payments for loss of office audited 100 There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
0 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Payments to past directors audited There were no payments made to past directors during the year.
Micro Focus FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Index Other directorships FTSE 250 Index None of the executive directors held any other directorships outsidethe Group during the year.
Review of past performance The remuneration package is structured to help ensure alignment with shareholders.
There is no direct correlation between share price movement and the change in value of pay package in any one year as the remuneration package comprises several components.
The graph above right and table on page 82 show how the Chief Executive Officers or Executive Chairmans pay compares to total shareholder returns TSR over the last seven years.
81 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued The table below details the Executive Chairmans or, prior to his appointment on 14 April 2011, the Chief Executive Officers single total figure of remuneration over the same period: Year ended 30 April 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Kevin Loosemore Single total figure of remuneration 23 1,291 1,304 12,468 4,315 4,231 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil 90% 92% 100% 100% 100% LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil Nil Nil 199% 100% 100% Nigel Clifford Single total figure of remuneration 628 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil Stephen Kelly Single total figure of remuneration 3,696 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil LTIP vesting % of maximum 100% Implementation of Remuneration Policy for the year ended 30 April 2017 Base salary Following a careful review, the committee decided to cease all ARAs as of 1 February 2016 and to roll the ARAs into the base salary.
Noincrease to overall salary was awarded.
At 1 February At 1 May % Executive director 2016 2015 change 1 Kevin Loosemore 750,000 750,000 0% 2 Mike Phillips 470,000 470,000 0% Stephen Murdoch 500,000 n a n a Nils Brauckmann 500,000 n a n a 1 Comprises base salary of 490,000 and ARA of 260,000.
The average basic salary increase across the non-commissioned staff of the Group for 2016 is 4.7%.
Pension Executive directors will continue to receive a pension contribution or payment in lieu of pension.
The Executive Chairman receives a payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary whilst other executive directors receive a contribution of 15% of base salary.
Annual bonus The annual bonus for the financial year ended 30 April 2017 will operate on the same basis as for the year ended 30 April 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval, the committee has approved a maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary for all executive directors.
The annual bonus will continue to be based on growth in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA on a constant currency basis excluding the impact of in year acquisitions.
There will be zero payment if there is no growth increasing on a straight-line basis to a maximum payment at 10% year-on-year growth.
Subject to shareholder approval, for all executive directors with the exception of the Executive Chairman, one-third of any bonus earnedwill be mandatorily converted into Company shares, to maximize long-term shareholder alignment, support retention in a highly competitive and global talent pool, and be in line with typical market practice.
Two-thirds of the bonus will continue to be paid in cash.
The Executive Chairman will continue to receive his bonus in cash, given his significant shareholding in the Company.
Deferred bonus awards will vest in full after three years, subject to continued employment.
For those subject to the changes, malus and claw back provisions will apply to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan, as well as to the cash bonus.
82 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 LTIP The committee expects to make awards of 200% of salary to the Executive Chairman and 150% of salary to the CFO later in 2016.
There will be no change to the performance conditions to the LTIP, which are as follows: Annualized EPS growth of the Company in excess of RPI over the performance period Vesting percentage of the shares subject to an award Less than 3% p. a.
100% Awards will vest three years from the grant date.
Further details of the awards will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP awards were made to Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann on their appointment to the board in February 2016 see below and page 84 for further details.
Implementation of non-executive director remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2017 Following the annual review of non-executive director fees in February 2015, the executive directors determined that there should be no changes in fees for the financial year ended 30 April 2016 except that Karen Slatfords remuneration would be increased with immediate effect to 80,000 per annum to reflect her appointment as senior independent director.
This fee would include the fee for chairing any committee or none.
Independent non-executive director base fee 50,000 p. a.
Additional fee for chairing a committee 10,000 p. a.
Fee for the SID including chairing committees 80,000 p. a.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited Nil-cost options held Options Shares held Unvested and Unvested and Shareholding Current owned Vested but not subject to Vested but not subject to requirement shareholding Requirement Director outright exercised performance exercised performance % of salary % of salary met?
1 Kevin Loosemore 698,520 334,289 1,173,607 200% 1,166% Yes 2 Mike Phillips 145,654 150,430 790,538 150% 388% Yes 4 Stephen Murdoch 136,121 532,872 150% Not yet due 4 Nils Brauckmann 476,822 150% Not yet due Tom Skelton Yes Karen Slatford Yes Tom Virden 4,207 Yes 3 Richard Atkins 5,464 Yes 5 Karen Geary 39,037 n a Prescott Ashe n a David Golob n a Steve Schuckenbrock 6,700 n a 1 47,918 shares are held by Kevin Loosemores wife, Joy Loosemore.
2 122,077 shares are held by Mike Phillips wife, Josephine Phillips.
3 2,055 shares are held by Richard Atkins wife, Julie Atkins.
4 Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann are required to have a 150% shareholding within three years of joining as directors on 1 February 2016.
5 Karen Gearys options were awarded whilst an employee of the Company and not when she was a non-executive director.
Between 1 May and 13 July 2016 there had been no changes to these interests.
83 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Remuneration report continued Micro Focus International plc Incentive Plan 2005 Plan The executive directors as at 30 April 2016 held awards granted under the terms of the Plan.
The movements in these awards during the financial year are shown below.
2 I n the year ended 30 April 2016, the LTIP awards to Kevin Loosemore, Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch did not vest until 26 June 2016 but the committee believed that the performance measures had been substantially completed by the year end.
3 P erformance condition requires that cumulative EPS growth over a three year vesting period is at least equal to RPI plus 3% per annum at which point 25% of awards will vest and for full vesting the cumulative EPS growth will be required to be RPI plus 9% per annum.
Straight-line vesting will apply between these points.
Performance against these objectives is determined by the committee based on the Companys audited results.
4 This award vested in full on 27 December 2015.
84 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Additional Share Grant The executive directors as at 30 April 2016 hold the following awards of ASGs.
Number Number Number Number at granted in exercised in lapsed in Number at Exercise Date 1May 2015 financial year financial year financial year 30April 2016 price of exercise 1 Kevin Loosemore 947,140 947,140 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 1 Mike Phillips 676,529 676,529 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 1 Stephen Murdoch 405,917 405,917 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 1 Nils Brauckmann 405,917 405,917 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 1 The performance condition is that the percentage of ordinary shares subject to the ASG which may be acquired on exercise on or after the vesting date is as follows: i 0% if the Shareholder Return Percentage as defined below is 50% or less: ii 100% if the Shareholder Return Percentage is 100% or more: and iii a percentage determined on a straight-line basis between i and ii above.
The Shareholder Return Percentage will be calculated by deducting 819.4 pence per share the Reference Price, being the average of the 20 days before 3 June 2014 being the date of the heads of agreement relating to the proposed combination of Micro Focus and TAG between Micro Focus, Wizard, Golden Gate Capital and Francisco Partners Management LLC, from the sum of the Vesting Price calculated as the average closing share price over the period of 20 days ending on the day prior to the vesting date plus the total of all dividends per share between Completion and the vesting date.
This will be divided by the Reference Price, multiplying the resulting figure by 100 to obtain the Shareholder Return Percentage.
Sharesave In relation to the Sharesave Scheme, Mike Phillips joined the Company scheme on 21 August 2013 at an option price of 5.98 over 1,504shares that are exercisable from 1 October 2016.
Share option schemes Details of the Companys share option schemes are given in note 35 of the financial statements.
The mid-market price of the shares at 30 April 2016 was 1,529p per share and during the financial year ended 30 April 2016 the price varied between 1,175p and 1,610p per share.
Statement of shareholding voting The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2015 Directors remuneration report at the AGM held on 24 September 2015: Votes for Votes against Number Percentage Number Percentage Votes cast Votes withheld 171,007,625 91.75% 15,380,001 8.25% 186,387,626 2,829,110 The current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders with a 90.56% vote for at the 2014 AGM, and the amendment to the Remuneration Policy was approved with a 60.56% vote for at the 2014 GM.
The reasons for the voting outcome and actions taken by the committee to engage with shareholders were set out in last years report.
On behalf of the board, Karen Slatford Senior independent non-executive director 13 July 2016 85
