Directors Remuneration Policy Report PageGroup is a global business that operates in a cyclical industry in which the retention and ongoing motivation of Executives and management continuity is critical to the success of the Company.
As a result, the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in this report has been designed to encourage long-term decision making, to avoid undue volatility in remuneration outcomes, and to act as an effective retention tool during market downturns.
The Remuneration Policy set out below will take effect, subject to shareholder approval, from 8 June 2017 the date of the Annual General Meeting.
This new policy will replace the Annual Bonus and LTIP with a single plan, the Executive Single Incentive Plan ESIP.
This change will not increase the maximum total quantum available to executives, and will: simplify remuneration: introduce a single balanced scorecard: incorporate deferral of a significant portion of any award: introduce post-vesting holding periods on all vesting shares for executives who have not met the shareholding requirement: maintain both annual and longer-term performance measurement: and result in simpler disclosure of remuneration outcomes.
There are no other new components in the remuneration policy.
Future Policy Table for Executive Directors Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Salary Attract, retain and Salary levels and subsequent increases are set after reviewing Salaries will not increase by Fixed reward high calibre various factors including individual and Company performance, more than RPI 5% except pay Executive Directors role and responsibility, internal relativities such as the increases increases in excess of this awarded to other employees and prevailing market levels for may be awarded in the case Executive Directors at companies of comparable status and of new Executive Directors market value, taking into account the total remuneration package.
where it is appropriate to offer a below market salary Salaries are normally reviewed annually.
initially on appointment and Salary is paid monthly and increases are generally effective from a series of staged increases, 1 January.
subject to performance and experience in role, to bring to a market competitive salary.
Aim for market competitive salaries.
For information the 2017 CEO salary level is 601,749 and the 2017 CFO salary is 350,000 which can be increased in line with the parameters set out under the column Operation.
Benefits Attract, retain Competitive benefits including car allowance or company car Competitive benefits in line Fixed and reward high including running costs, private medical insurance for the with market practice.
pay calibre Executive individual and family, permanent health insurance and four times Directors salary life assurance.
Provision of Provision of relocation assistance and any associated costs or opportunities for benefits including but not limited to housing benefits, personal connecting with tax advice and school fees upon appointment if when applicable.
clients, investors The Company may also provide tax equalisation arrangements.
and staff to Membership of clubs as appropriate for the development facilitate growth of business.
strategy PageGroup Annual Report 2016 55 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Executive Rewards both Awards are paid in cash 40%, and deferred shares The ESIP allows for annual Single short and long 60% which vest in equal tranches over a minimum awards of up to a maximum of Incentive term performance three-year period.
375% of base salary for each Plan ESIP Executive Director.
The plan consists of annual awards with performance Aligns interests of measured over both one year and trailing long-term Executive Directors performance periods.
At least 40% of any award will with shareholders depend on trailing longer-term metrics.
Performance will be measured against a balanced scorecard, to support the companys strategy.
Performance targets will be a mix of financial, strategic operational and personal targets which may comprise, but are not limited to, the following: PBT: key strategic projects: people development: cost management: relative Gross Profit vs a comparator group: and EPS.
Directors who have not reached the shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary will be required to hold vested shares from each tranche of the ESIP for a further two years post-vesting, except for sales for the purposes of meeting tax liabilities on vesting and exercise.
A minimum of 70% of the possible award will normally be linked to financial metrics.
Dividend equivalents accrue during the vesting period but are only released to the extent awards vest.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply to the total award, including cash and deferred portions, for misstatement of performance, substantial failure of risk control, and gross misconduct.
Pension Attract, retain Executive Directors may receive a defined contribution CEO: 25% of salary.
Fixed pay and fairly reward pension benefit or cash supplement.
Other Executive Directors: high calibre 20% of salary.
Executive Directors To avoid measuring performance over periods already known at implementation, the trailing element for the first ESIP award to be made in 2018 will be based on 2017 EPS.
For the second ESIP award, performance will be measured over a two-year performance period.
For the third and subsequent awards, performance will be measured over a three-year performance period.
performance measures should financial performance.
The Committee Choice of performance provide alignment between the are mindful that: measures and target setting interests of management and those targets for financial and strategic of shareholders Information on performance measures measures should be stretching yet and targets for each annual award a significant proportion of any achievable, and set with reference is disclosed in detail in the Directors incentive scheme should be linked to internal plans and external Annual Remuneration Report.
When to Group financial performance expectations choosing performance measures and PBT and EPS are used currently targets should not incentivise setting targets the Committee is guided because they are key measures excessive risk taking by the following principles: of business performance and performance measures should drive profitability Legacy arrangements and reward the achievement of key Strategic measures will focus Executives In approving this Directors Remuneration short and long-term financial and on key drivers that underpin long-term Policy Report, authority is given to the strategic goals PageGroup Annual Report 2016 56 Directors Remuneration Policy Report Company to honour any commitments when setting the Executive Director Executive shareholding entered into with current or former Directors remuneration policy.
Remuneration levels requirements such as the payment of a pension or awards for all employees are set in the context pursuant to the terms of the legacy share of internal relativities and market levels Shareholding requirements are operated schemes such as the Long-Term Incentive of remuneration for comparable roles.
to align Executive Directors interests Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan granted Policy for Executive Directors differs from with those of shareholders.
The current prior to the date that this policy takes effect.
other senior executives in that Executive requirement is 200% of base salary.
Details of any such payments will be set Director variable remuneration is capped, This will be achieved through the retention out in the Directors Annual Remuneration whereas for other senior executives it is of half of any vesting share award net of Report as they arise.
This is in line with practice in tax made under the legacy deferred bonus the recruitment industry where variable arrangement, and through the application remuneration is funded from an uncapped Consistency with remuneration of 2-year post-vest holding periods net profit pool.
This arrangement provides a of tax if the award was made under the for the wider group strong incentive for employees to grow legacy LTIP or the new ESIP.
The Committee reviews and considers remuneration across PageGroup Our approach to recruitment Remuneration will be subject to the maximum levels as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
As a result, the maximum level of variable remuneration is 375% of base salary under the ESIP excluding any buy out payments.
Individuals will participate in the ESIP up to the normal annual limit subject to: Award levels in the year of appointment being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the financial year worked Performance measures and or measurement periods may be adjusted for newly appointed Executive Directors, taking account of the timing of appointment and the individuals role The table below sets out our approach to the treatment of outstanding awards of variable remuneration when recruiting externally or internally: Element of remuneration External recruits Internal recruits Treatment of May offer additional cash and or share-based elements when considered to Any variable pay element awarded outstanding be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders, in order in respect of the prior role may be awards to buy out forfeited remuneration.
allowed to pay out according to its of variable terms on grant.
Any buy-out payments would be based solely on remuneration lost when remuneration leaving the former employer and would be on terms that are no more favourable than the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options and time horizons.
Where forfeited remuneration is performance related, any buy-out payment would be subject to performance conditions determined by the Committee.
The Committee may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R to make such awards where doing so is necessary to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of the relevant individual.
In addition, the structure of remuneration for a new Executive Director may differ temporarily from that in effect for other Executive Directors.
The circumstances in which this may occur are as follows: when it is appropriate to offer a below market salary initially, a series of salary increases may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and experience in role which bring the incumbent to the determined salary level, reflective of the policy to pay market competitive salaries the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain costs associated with the recruitment for example legal fees PageGroup Annual Report 2016 57 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The extent to which any awards made Policy on payment for loss Illustration of the application under legacy share plans prior to the of office of our remuneration policy effective date of this policy would vest upon cessation of employment would On termination, any compensation The chart below gives an indication of be determined in accordance with their payments due to an Executive Director the total remuneration which could be terms and the plan rules.
are calculated in accordance with normal received by the Chief Executive Officer legal principles, including mitigation, as and Chief Financial Officer under the In considering the exercise of discretion appropriate.
Should notice be served by policy.
Three scenarios are presented: as set out above, the Committee will take either party, an Executive Director can the minimum remuneration receivable: into account all relevant circumstances.
continue to receive basic salary, benefits the amount receivable if they perform in Factors that the Committee may but and pension for the duration of his notice line with the Companys expectations: and shall not be obliged to take into account period during which time the Company the maximum remuneration receivable.
will include, but not be limited to, the may require the individual to continue to Note that the charts are only indicative, following: fulfil his current duties or may place the as share price movement and dividend the best interests of the Company individual on garden leave.
The Company accruals have been excluded and the contribution of the Executive can make a payment in lieu of notice performance outcomes are assumed.
Director to the success of the PILON as a lump sum equivalent to Assumptions for each illustrative scenario Company during their tenure the amount of base salary, benefits and are as follows: pension that would have been payable the need to ensure continuity Minimum: fixed remuneration only to the executive.
This payment can be the need to compromise any claims i. e. salary, benefits and pension phased over the remainder of the notice that the Executive Director may have Target: fixed remuneration plus 60% period and be subject to reduction of the maximum payable under the whether the Executive Director if there are alternative earnings.
The annual elements of the ESIP, and received a PILON payment phasing and reduction of PILON will not 50% of the maximum payable under whether a greater proportion of the apply to Executive Directors in post at the longer-term trailing elements of outstanding award may have vested 31 December 2013.
A payment may be the ESIP had the Executive Director served made in respect of accrued but untaken Maximum: fixed remuneration plus out his notice holiday.
maximum ESIP opportunity whether the Executive Director has An Executive Director who resigns or is presided over an orderly handover The charts are based on an annual salary dismissed for cause will not be eligible of 601,749, for the Chief Executive adjustment of performance for an ESIP award and will forfeit any Officer and 350,000 for the Chief outcomes to ensure that payout is deferred awards.
Financial Officer, and assume a maximum fair and reasonable in the context of In respect of the ESIP, an Executive ESIP opportunity of 375% and 325% the Companys overall performance.
Director may be deemed a good leaver, of maximum salary for the Chief for example due to: Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
Redundancy, retirement, injury, disability, ill health or death in service: A transfer of employment in Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer connection with the disposal of a business or undertaking: 3500 2000 The company with which the 3,044k Executive Director holds office 3000 or employment ceasing to be a 74% 1,584k member of the Group: or 1500 72% 2500 Other appropriate circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
2,040k 2000 As a good leaver they will be eligible 1,077k 61% 1000 for an ESIP award for their last year of 59% employment pro-rated for the portion 1500 of the year worked and subject to performance.
Unvested deferred 1000 787k 446k 500 ESIP awards may be retained by the 100% 41% 28% Executive Director and will normally vest 100% 39% 26% 500 at the established vesting dates and will continue to be subject to malus and clawback.
They may also be subject 0 0 Minimum Target Max Minimum Target Max to time pro-ration at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 58 Directors Remuneration Policy Report described in the Policy on Statement of consideration Key areas of discretion payment for loss of office section of employment conditions Key areas of Committee discretion in the on page 58 Remuneration Policy include but are not elsewhere in the Group adjustments required in certain limited to : circumstances e. g. rights issues, PageGroup does not consult directly with the choice of financial performance corporate restructuring and special employees when determining remuneration measures in variable remuneration and dividends policy for Executive Directors.
However, the choice of performance targets for increases in pay across the senior the ability to adjust existing those measures management population and the wider performance conditions for the treatment of leavers in the ESIP workforce are taken into account when exceptional events so that they as described in the Policy on setting pay levels for Executive Directors.
can still fulfil their original purpose payment for loss of office section subject to the amended condition on page 58 Statement of consideration of not being materially less challenging certain discretions as set out in the shareholder views ESIP plan rules such as: External Non-Executive Director The Committee considers shareholder the timing of grant of award and or positions feedback received in relation to the AGM payment each year at its first meeting following Subject to Board approval, Executive the size of an award and or a the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee Directors are permitted to take on nonpayment subject to the maximums Chairman will seek to inform major executive positions with other companies.
set out in the Future Policy Table for shareholders of any material changes to Executive Directors are permitted to retain Executive Directors the Remuneration Policy in advance and their fees in respect of such positions.
determination of a good leaver in will generally offer a meeting to discuss Details of outside directorships held by the addition to any specified categories these changes.
Executive Directors and any fees that they for incentive plan purposes based received are provided on page 72 of the on the rules of the ESIP, and the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
resulting treatment of the award as Future Policy Table for Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services and do not receive any other benefits from the Group, nor do they participate in any of the bonus or share schemes.
The fees recognise the responsibility of the role and the time commitments required, and are not performance related or pensionable.
They are paid monthly in cash and there are no other benefits.
Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees Attract, retain and Reviewed by the Board after recommendation by the Chairman and The maximum aggregate fees for all fairly reward high Chief Executive and by the Committee in the case of the Chairman Directors allowed by the Companys calibre individuals.
taking into account individual responsibilities, such as committee Articles of Association is 600,000.
Chairmanship, time commitment, general employee pay increases, and Current fee levels are set out in the prevailing market levels at companies of comparable status and Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
Fee increases are normally reviewed annually and are generally effective from 1 March.
The above principles will also be applied for the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors.
twelve months following termination of on payment for early termination in the Service contracts and letters of employment.
After the initial appointment three year term they may be reappointed Non-Executive Directors, including the for a further term of three years, subject All Executive Directors service contracts Chairman of the Board, are engaged to annual re-election at Annual General contain a twelve month notice period.
The under letters of appointment and do not Meetings.
service contracts also contain restrictive have service contracts with the Company.
covenants preventing the Executive They are appointed for a fixed term of Further detail on service contracts and Directors from competing with the Group three years, during which period the letters of appointment are set out on page for six months following the termination of appointment may be terminated by either 69 and copies are available for inspection employment and preventing the Executive party upon one months written notice or in at the Companys registered office during Directors from soliciting key employees, accordance with the Articles of Association normal business hours.
clients and candidates of the employing of the Company.
There are no provisions company and Group companies for PageGroup Annual Report 2016 59
