Governance Directors remuneration report Annual chairmans statement Dear Shareholders, 2016 Annual Bonus for the Group Chief Executive Officer The Committee reviewed Mr Lees performance during 2016 and 2016 remained relatively quiet in terms of the Groups remuneration.
adjudicated an award of 110,461 for his 2016 annual bonus 2015: During the year, the Committee conducted a detailed review of its 127,122, which represents 14.73% of his maximum cash bonus Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders in opportunity.
This amount reflects the Committees assessment of the May 2014 and, as required by legislation, is set to expire at our May performance of the Group and the achievements of Mr Lee over the 2017 AGM.
Details of the calculation can be found on page 57 of this report.
Proposed Amendments to the Directors Remuneration Policy This Remuneration Report contains details of the proposed Developments under the Companys Share Schemes Remuneration Policy to be submitted to a binding shareholder vote at The Committee reviewed the Companys achievement of the the forthcoming 2017 AGM.
The review conducted by the Committee performance measures for the 2014 awards granted under the 2006 took into account shareholder feedback, evolving market best practice LTIP, including total shareholder return as assessed against the FTSE and our desire to align measures and targets with the Companys 250 excluding investment trusts and a hospitality peer group, growth strategic goals.
As a result, the Committee concluded that the Policy in the Companys net asset value and cumulative earnings per share approved at the 2014 AGM remains broadly appropriate, and is growth for the three-year period ended 31 December 2016.
The proposing only minor changes to the Policy for the next three-year Committee determined that the Company did not meet the required period.
minimum thresholds and accordingly awards will lapse in full.
As the 2006 LTIP and 2006 Sharesave Plan both expired in May 2016, The key proposed changes and amendments to the revised policy are as revised plans were submitted for approval and approved by follows: shareholders at the Companys 2016 AGM.
As previously indicated, the revised plans did not include material amendments, as the Committee believed they continued to be effective and reflected best practice.
A maximum limit on executive director base salaries and benefits.
Under the 2016 LTIP the Committee now has discretion to apply an Increased flexibility to align LTIP measures and targets with the additional two-year post-vesting holding period, in addition to the Companys long-term financial and strategic goals at the start of each standard three-year performance period.
We sought feedback on the cycle.
A minimum weighting of 50% will be retained on earnings per new plans from our largest shareholders before the AGM and no share growth.
Details of the revised plans can be A higher shareholding requirement for Executive Directors of 200% of found in the notice of the 2016 AGM.
Clarification of the malus and clawback provisions in the Companys I would also like to thank the members for their contributions to the incentive schemes.
Committees work over the past year, which is very much appreciated.
Clarification of the Companys position on non-executive director fees and external and subsidiary director appointments.
The remainder of this Directors Remuneration Report has been Removed the ability in exceptional cases to pay in lieu of pension a prepared in compliance with applicable reporting requirements and I cash contribution up to 30%.
The Committee welcomes any feedback from our shareholders and we trust that you will support the policies and practices The Committee believes that the proposed Policy is in the best interests outlined in this report.
of the Company and its shareholders.
We engaged with our largest shareholders on the proposed changes in January 2017.
Yours faithfully, Other matters considered by the Committee in 2016 Alexander Waugh The following summarises the significant matters considered by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee in respect of the 2016 financial year.
16 February 2017 Retirement of the Group Chief Executive Officer As announced by the Company on 24 August 2016, Aloysius Lee, our Group Chief Executive Officer, notified the Board of his intention to retire in the first quarter of 2017, and the Board subsequently agreed with Mr Lee a retirement date of 28 February 2017.
On behalf of the Committee, Id like to thank Aloysius for his service to the Group over his two-year tenure and wish him the best in his future endeavours.
We look forward to working with the Nominations Committee and wider Board on the recruitment of Mr Lees successor and his or her remuneration arrangements.
48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Committee governance Membership Alexander Waugh chairs the Remuneration Committee the Committee In addition, the Committee is authorised to: and the other members include Shaukat Aziz, Susan Farr, Nicholas George and Gervase MacGregor.
All Committee members served administer the Companys share option schemes: throughout the full year.
The Committee held four scheduled meetings in oversee major changes to employee benefit structures throughout the 2016 and one ad hoc meeting.
Attendance of the regularly scheduled Group: meetings is shown on page 41.
The Chairman of the Board and the ensure that performance related elements of remuneration form a Group Chief Executive Officer are invited to attend meetings as significant proportion of the total remuneration of Executive Directors appropriate, but they are excluded when their own performance or and are designed to align their interests with those of shareholders: remuneration are being discussed.
consider whether the Executive Directors should be eligible for annual bonuses and benefits under long-term incentive schemes: No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other provide packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive than as a shareholder of the Company, in the matters to be decided by Directors of the quality required: the Committee or involvement in the day-to-day management of the approve the terms and duration of any service agreement to be entered business of the Group.
into with an Executive Director: consider the compensation commitments payable to Executive Further information regarding the Committees advisors and its Directors under their service agreements or otherwise in the event of evaluation can be found on page 63 of this report.
early termination: and select and appoint consultants engaged to advise the Committee.
Our role The Committee has delegated authority from the Board to determine, in The Committees terms of reference are available at consultation with the Chairman of the Board and Group Chief Executive www.
Officer as appropriate, the broad remuneration policy and individual remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and senior management team.
It also oversees the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy The Companys current Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting AGM held on 1 May 2014, and will expire at the AGM to be held on Friday, 5 May 2017.
The revised Directors remuneration policy which is proposed to take effect from 5 May 2017 for a period of up to three years, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM is set out below.
During the year under review, the Committee conducted a detailed review of the remuneration policy in the context of its alignment with the Companys strategic aims, shareholder feedback, and institutional investor best practice.
The Committee concluded that the policy approved at the 2014 AGM remains appropriate, and is therefore proposing only minor changes to the Policy for the next three-year period.
As before, the Committee retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the remuneration policy without reverting to shareholders.
Policy for Executive Directors It is proposed the following policy will apply to all Executive Directors presently the Group Chief Executive Officer is the only Executive Director.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Salaries are a key component of the reward package in attracting, motivating and retaining executives who are instrumental in driving and growing the business and delivering the Companys strategic goals.
Operation Salaries in the Group are based on the value of the individual, the level of responsibility, experience and market conditions.
Salaries are reviewed at least annually but are not necessarily increased.
The Committee may award salary increases at other times of the year if it considers such an award to be appropriate.
In reviewing salaries, account is taken of market conditions, significant changes in role, pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, inflation and budgets.
Maximum The salary payable to Executive Directors will normally be capped at the upper quartile of the relevant market benchmark for the role under review.
This maximum salary represents the highest end of the range at which the Committee would expect the base salary to be set, rather than the actual amount to be paid.
Salaries will be set on a case-by-case basis to reflect the role and the experience and qualifications of the individual.
There is no separate cap on the annual increase to base salaries.
However, the Committee will normally determine the appropriate level of increase for Executive Directors taking into account the general level of increase for the broader workforce, but on occasion may need to make a more significant increase to recognise additional responsibilities, or an increase in the scale or scope of the role.
Larger increases also may be considered appropriate if a Director initially had been appointed to the Board on a below-market salary.
The Committee will provide the rationale for any increase in excess of those for the wider workforce in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
It is expected that the annual base salary for Executive Directors will be inclusive of director fees, but not reimbursable expenses, payable in respect of directorships of subsidiary companies that may be held by the Executive Director.
Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme to: incentivise executives to drive Group strategy and performance over the short term: and ensure that a significant proportion of the total reward of executives packages is linked to performance during the year.
Operation The performance period for annual bonuses corresponds with the financial year.
Bonus measures, weightings and targets are set annually at the start of the financial year by the Committee which retains discretion to revise any calculated bonus downwards, but not upwards, if it is felt to have become misaligned with the Groups performance.
Payment of the annual bonus is normally contingent on the employee still being employed by the Group at the time of payment and the employee or the Company not having served notice of termination.
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
The Committee may defer and pay a proportion up to 100% of the earned annual bonus in shares which must be held for up to three years before vesting.
No performance conditions apply to such deferred bonus shares, but their release is subject to continued employment over the vesting period.
Deferred bonus share awards would be eligible, at the Committees discretion, for a dividend equivalent.
1 The bonus plan includes clawback and malus provisions.
50 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Maximum The level of bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is: Group Chief Executive Other Executive Officers Bonus Directors Bonus as a % of base as a % of base salary salary Threshold 0% 0% Target 75% 50% Maximum 150% 100% The maximum value of a deferred bonus share award is the value of the cash bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
2 Performance 70% of the bonus opportunity will be linked to financial performance, with the remainder linked to non-financial measures, which may include personal objectives and other non-financial operational measures as determined by the Committee, such as corporate social responsibility performance targets.
However, the Committee has discretion to vary those percentages by plus or minus 10% for any year to reflect particular corporate objectives.
Financial measures may include, but are not limited to, operating profit, profit before tax, revenue and revenue per available room.
The Committee determines bonus performance measures, weightings and targets annually which are closely aligned with the Groups short-term strategic priorities.
Targets for financial measures are set by reference to the Groups budget, while the personal element of the bonus is driven by personal performance objectives set at the start of the year.
Further details will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Long-Term Incentive Plan Purpose and link to strategy The Companys 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP forms the long-term variable element of executive remuneration at the Company and is intended to incentivise long-term outperformance.
The LTIP allows for the award of performance shares, nil cost share options and deferred bonus shares.
For the three-year period over which this policy is intended to apply, LTIP awards will normally comprise awards of performance shares, which are aimed at: driving and rewarding sustainable performance over the long term: aligning the interests of executives and shareholders: and supporting retention.
Operation Performance share awards are made annually and normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over three years, continued employment with the Group and the rules of the Plan.
LTIP awards may additionally be subject to an additional post-vesting holding period of up to two years.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions under the Plan.
The Plan allows dividends or dividend equivalents to accrue, subject to the Committees discretion.
1 The Plan includes clawback and malus provisions, see note below for details Maximum The maximum annual value of performance shares and nil cost share options awarded under the LTIP is 150% of base salary, although awards with face values of up to 200% of salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, the recruitment of a new Executive Director.
The level of award is otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, details of which will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance The performance measures attached to LTIP awards will comprise a blend of measures determined by the Committee from time to time, with at least a 50% weighting on Earnings Per Share EPS.
A small element, not exceeding 10% of any award, may be based on a discretionary assessment of the achievement of key strategic objectives, such as those relating to asset management and the timely delivery of key projects within budget.
Under each measure, entry level performance will result in 25% of maximum vesting for that element, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting.
Further details on LTIP awards, including the measures selected, their weightings and the performance targets set, will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy The provision of retirement benefits supports the Company in attracting and retaining executives and promoting long-term retirement planning.
Operation A defined cash contribution may be made into either a Company sponsored pension plan or a private pension plan or as cash in lieu of pension.
Maximum up to 20% of base salary.
Other benefits Purpose and link to strategy Allows the Company to recruit and retain appropriate executive talent through the provision of cost effective benefits consistent with market practice.
Executive Directors also may also participate, along with other employees, in the Groups tax advantaged United Kingdom Save as You Earn SAYE, or other equivalent savings-based share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
Operation Standard benefits are offered to ensure they are competitive with market practice by location and the level and responsibilities of the individual.
These may comprise although are not limited to a motor vehicle and driver or an appropriate allowance, insurances for life, personal accident, disability and family medical cover.
Special benefits such as relocation, removal, tax equalisation, house purchase rental allowance and childrens education allowance may be offered to attract the right candidate in the event that an Executive Director is appointed on expatriate or international assignment terms.
Maximum SAYE savings-based schemes are subject to individual limits.
In the UK the limit is set by the Committee up to the limits prescribed by legislation.
The value of standard benefits is consistent with relevant market practice and is kept under review by the Committee, but would not be expected to exceed more than the equivalent of a months salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
The value of any special benefits is reviewed on a case-by-case basis but would not be expected to exceed more than the equivalent of three months base salary other than in exceptional circumstances.
1 Clawback and malus provisions are included in the Groups reward schemes to provide a means for the Company to correct any share award or bonus that may have incorrectly or unjustly been granted and or paid under any of the reward schemes.
This may be through the adjustment of any share award, unvested long-term incentive award, annual bonus, or future annual bonus, prior to vesting payment malus or the return of any money or shares previously paid or granted clawback.
Current examples of when these provisions could be applied include, without limitation: i where the Company is found to have materially misstated its financial results: ii where the assessment of any condition imposed on an award is found to have been based on an error or on inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions: or iii if any other circumstances arise which the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback malus provisions e. g. gross misconduct of a participant as determined by the Committee or a participant by act, or omission, contributes to serious reputational damage to the Company.
The Committee retains discretion to modify the terms and conditions of the clawback and malus provisions.
52 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Shareholding requirements Within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of their base annual salary.
Should an Executive Director not hold the required level of shares then at least 50% of any vesting under a Company incentive plan is required to be retained until the requirement is met.
Provided that Executive Directors hold and maintain the appropriate level of shares, they may sell shares, subject to the normal requirement for directors dealings under applicable regulations.
Share interests which do not count towards the shareholding guidelines include: unvested performance share awards: SAYE options: unvested deferred bonus shares: and any notional accrued dividend equivalent shares with vesting subject to future performance.
Directors to whom this requirement applies are prohibited from engaging in any hedging transactions with respect to Company shares, including trading in any derivative securities.
There are no formal shareholding guidelines for the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and the senior management, however, they are encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Non-Executive Director Policy The remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors is set out below: Fees Chairman fee In the case of the Chairman, the Chairman receives a set fee and the fee level is determined by the Committee.
The Chairmans fee is determined taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of the role, as well as the role holders skills, gravitas and qualifications to lead the board.
Basic fee Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities.
The policy is to set fees at or around the median for companies of a similar size and complexity.
Their purpose is to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors.
Additional fees Non-Executive Directors are paid an additional fee for being Senior Independent Director, a member of a Board committee and for chairing a Board committee.
Other matters The independent Non-Executive Directors each have rolling letters of appointment which may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to bonuses, benefits or pension scheme contributions or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
In addition to any remuneration payable, a Non-Executive Director may be paid reasonable travel, hotel and other expenses properly incurred in discharging the Directors duties.
Fees cease immediately in the event the Non-Executive Director ceases to be a Director.
All Non-Executive Director fees are paid in cash.
Remuneration on recruitment Reward packages for new Executive Directors will be consistent with the policy set out on pages 50 to 53, which describes each component of remuneration for the Executive Directors of the Company.
Fixed remuneration elements would be paid only from the date of employment and any bonus will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
The maximum level of variable remuneration is as stated in the policy table above.
If, consequent to joining the Group, a new director forfeits elements of variable reward linked to their previous employment, the Committee reserves the right to make compensatory awards up to the maximum amount of the individuals actual or estimated loss.
Any such awards would be made taking into account the performance conditions and time horizon of the forfeited awards.
In the event that an internal candidate is appointed as an Executive Director, any contractual obligation in respect of a previous role will be honoured even if it is inconsistent with this policy at the time the obligation is fulfilled.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 53 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued The Committee retains discretion to use Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 and for this purpose only to compensate an Executive Director for long-term incentive scheme awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Such buyout awards will have a fair value no greater than the awards forfeited.
The arrangements that exist for current Executive Directors, as set out in the Policy Table, would then apply to the balance of the individuals remuneration package.
Directors service agreements and letters of appointment To reflect current practice, it is the Companys policy for Executive Directors to have service contracts that provide for a notice period for termination of up to 12 months.
The dates on which Directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term Chairman Kwek Leng Beng Nominee of controlling shareholder Executive Director Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 10 December 2014 12 months written notice given by either party Independent Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz 16 June 2009 Daniel Desbaillets 11 August 2016 Susan Farr 12 December 2013 Rolling letters of appointment terminable by either party on one months notice Nicholas George 16 June 2009 Gervase MacGregor 11 December 2014 Alexander Waugh 16 June 2009 Other Non-Executive Directors Kwek Eik Sheng Nominees of controlling shareholder Kwek Leng Peck The commencement date was 1 February 2015 and the effective date of Mr Lees appointment to the Board was 1 March 2015.
Mr Lee will be stepping down from the Board on 28 February 2017.
The commencement date of Mr Desbaillets appointment to the Board was 14 September 2016.
Service contracts are kept at the Groups corporate headquarters at Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London, W8 5SR.
There exist no other obligations that might give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments or payment for loss of office which are not disclosed elsewhere in this report.
Subsidiary and outside board appointments If an Executive Director wishes to take on an external non-executive appointment, the Companys policy is to support an Executive Director with that appointment provided that there is no conflict of interest and the role does not interfere with the executives commitment or duties.
They may retain any fees paid and generally the number of external non-executive appointments should be restricted to one such appointment.
For subsidiary directorships, the Committee retains the discretion to allow any Director to retain any fees paid for those appointments, subject to the limits set out in the Executive Director policy above.
Termination payments The Companys normal policy is to limit payments to Executive Directors on termination to contractual entitlements under their service agreements and the rules of any incentive and pension plans.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus as part of the termination arrangements, and the value of any terminating arrangement will be at the discretion of the Committee, having regard to all relevant factors.
This discretion allows the Committee to determine good leaver status, the consequences of which are set out in the table on page 55.
54 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Incentive schemes The rules of the incentive schemes currently provide that: Good leavers Other leavers Change of Control Discretion Performance conditions applied Award lapses Performance conditions To disapply the pro rata vesting, or Performance Shares taking into account the foreshortened applied taking into account the decide that the award will vest on performance period.
A time pro rata reduction is then A time pro rata reduction is then applied.
Performance conditions applied No bonus payable Performance conditions To disapply pro rata reduction and Annual Bonus taking into account the foreshortened applied taking into account the maintain original sum.
Vest in full Award lapses Vest in full To determine the number of shares Deferred Bonus Shares that vest, up to the value of the applicable bonus.
Reasons for good leaver status include death, ill health, retirement with the approval of the Company, office of employment ceases to be a part of the business or any other reason determined by the Committee.
Pay Scenarios The following chart shows the various remuneration scenarios for the existing remuneration package of the Group Chief Executive Officer on an annualised basis and calculated based on the stated assumptions.
Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Base 100% 610 Target 52% 32% 16% 1,173 Maximum 29% 35.5% 35.5% 2,110 '000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Assumptions: Base The Base scenario reflects fixed remuneration, including basic salary, pension and benefits, which are the only elements of the Group Chief Executive Officers package not linked to performance.
Target The Target scenario reflects the fixed remuneration elements as set out above, plus a target bonus payout of 50% of maximum and LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of the maximum award.
Maximum The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
No share price growth has been assumed in any scenario.
Consideration of employment conditions in the Group When setting the policy for executive remuneration, the Committee does not specifically consult employees.
Management does, however, ensure that the Committee is aware of pay and conditions throughout the Group and that these are taken into account when framing executive remuneration.
As a global group, in a sector with ready mobility, the more senior the role, the more a reward package needs to reflect the global market, whilst for the majority of employees the package is set with greater consideration of local market conditions and practices.
The annual bonus scheme and longterm equity incentive awards including under the LTIP are limited to the senior management team and key employees responsible for managing the hospitality business.
Shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of its key shareholders and investor representative bodies and is committed to undertaking consultation before committing to significant changes in aspects of remuneration.
Large shareholders were consulted prior to submitting the 2016 LTIP rules for approval at the Companys 2016 AGM, and also on the policy set out in this report which will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Legacy matters If approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, this remuneration policy will apply from the date of that meeting.
However, any legacy awards and other commitments, including those made prior to the adoption of this policy, may still be paid notwithstanding that they have only been incorporated by reference and not been fully described in this Directors remuneration policy report.
Such payments will be described in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Audited Information Single total figure of remuneration for each Director in 2016 The total remuneration for each person who served as a Director of the Company during 2016 is set out in the table below.
Salaries and fees ar e shown inclusive of sums receivable by the Directors from the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Aloysius Lee r eceived his pension contributions as a cash allowance equal to 20% of his basic salary.
In addition to his basic fee, Kwek Leng Beng r eceived 21,225 in director fees from subsidiary companies.
Aloysius Lee is the highest paid Dir ector.
His biography on page 34 reports the directorships and positions he holds in other publicly-traded Group subsidiaries and associate companies.
Daniel Desbaillets joined the Boar d as a Non-Executive Director on 14 September 2016.
In addition to their basic fee, Kwek Leng Peck and Kwek Eik Sheng r eceived 7,686 and 2,128 respectively in director fees from subsidiary companies.
As r eported last year, Wong Hong Ren stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer and a Director as of 28 February 2015.
Until that time, his benefits comprised a motor vehicle and driver, medical, personal accident and travel insurance.
As indicated in this report and in line with previous disclosures, he was paid his basic salary in monthly instalments through February 2016 and accrued holiday pay of 12,500 in accordance with his service agreement.
The 175,834 shar es awarded to Mr Wong on 4 April 2014 under the Long Term Incentive Plan, will lapse on 4 April 2017 since the minimum performance conditions for this award, which were measured over the three years ended on 31 December 2016, were not achieved and therefore have been valued at nil.
2016 annual bonus for Executive Directors The annual performance bonus for the only Executive Director who served in 2016, Aloysius Lee, was divided into two components including financial performance measures, which represented 60% of the bonus opportunity, and personal key performance indicators, which combined represented 40% of the bonus opportunity.
56 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information The following describes how the annual bonuses for Aloysius Lee was calculated for the year ended 31 December 2016, including a summary of the Committees assessment of his personal objectives.
The Committee considers that the specific financial target figures remain commercially sensitive given their close alignment with the Companys strategic plans.
Additionally, the Committee continues to be of the view that disclosing the targets could put the Company at a disadvantage to some of its competitors, which are not subject to similar reporting requirements.
However, as with last year, the Committee commits to disclose such targets when the Committee determines that they are no longer commercially sensitive, such disclosure to be within the next two years in any event.
As such, set out below are the targets set for 2016.
Financial Performance Objectives representing 60% of the opportunity Financial Performance Measure Target Minimum and Maximum Thresholds Weighting Achievement Group Revenue Not disclosed No payout below threshold of 95% of budget, rising on a straight line 10% 7.73% basis to maximum payout for 105% of budget or more Group Profit Before Tax Not disclosed No payout below threshold of 92% of budget, rising on a straight line 50% nil% basis to maximum payout for 108% of budget or more Personal Objectives representing 40% of the opportunity.
Personal Key Performance Indicator Weighting Aloysius Lee Objectives concerning the development of the senior executive management team 10% US business development and performance objectives 15% Group growth, capital and asset management objectives 10% Room rate and room occupancy growth objectives 5% Total 40% The Committee assessed that Mr Lee achieved 7% out of the 40% of his bonus opportunity related to his personal key performance indicators KPIs due to his achievements against the objectives agreed by the Committee.
The Committee recognised Mr Lees efforts to implement some cohesion and strength to the senior management team and structure and raise brand awareness and perception to Chinese outbound travellers.
Also the business has seen improvement in performance in the US region outside of New York.
Accordingly, after taking into account the Companys achievement of the financial performance objectives and Mr Lees achievement of his personal objectives, Mr Lee received a total bonus of 110,461 which constitutes the full bonus payable with respect to his 2016 annual bonus.
Reporting on 2014 annual bonus targets As we indicated in our 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the following describes the financial performance targets applicable to the annual bonus for Wong Hong Ren for the year ended 31 December 2014.
These were not disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts due to their commercial sensitivity.
2014 Financial Performance Measure Target Minimum and Maximum Thresholds Weighting Achievement Group Revenue Min 812.9m No payout below threshold of 95% of budget, rising on a straight line 15% 826.5m Max 898.5m basis to maximum payout for 105% of budget or more 2% payout Group Profit Before Tax Min 152.6m No payout below threshold of 92% of budget, rising on a straight line 55% 173.4m Max 179.2m basis to maximum payout for 108% of budget or more 43% payout The 2014 Group profit before tax was calculated using consolidated figures including CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT and only 20% of the revaluation gain recognised that year was taken into account, but the gains affecting CDLHT were excluded.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Scheme interests awarded in 2014 Performance share awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in 2014 were subject to performance conditions comprising both earnings per share EPS and Net Asset Value NAV plus dividend growth, and relative total shareholder return TSR performance over the three-year period ending 31 December 2016.
These awards were due to vest on the third anniversary of the awards being made, with 50% vesting on a straight line basis in the event the Companys cumulative EPS exceeded 104 pence at the end of the performance period, up to a maximum threshold of 132 pence.
A further 20% was to vest on a straight line basis in the event the Companys NAV plus dividend growth exceeded 6% per year during the performance period, up to a maximum threshold of 13% growth per year.
The remaining 30% would vest if the Companys TSR performance over the relevant period meets or exceeds the median TSR performance of a comparator group comprising those companies within the FTSE 250 index, excluding investment 1 trusts, and the median TSR performance of a comparator group comprising those companies within the selected peer group over the period.
The TSR performance element, split equally between the two comparator groups, was to vest on a straight line basis between the index, as a minimum threshold, and a maximum threshold of 9% growth per annum for each comparator group.
Based on the Companys EPS, NAV plus dividend growth and relative TSR performance for the three years ended 31 December 2016, the Committee has determined that the LTIP awards made on 4 April 2014 will lapse in full on 4 April 2017.
Scheme interests awarded during 2016 The only Director to be awarded performance shares under the Companys LTIP during 2016 was Aloysius Lee.
The award was made on 29 March 2016 and, subject to achievement of the relevant performance measures and LTIP rules, will vest on 29 March 2019.
Details of the award and the performance measures and targets attaching to this 2016 LTIP award are provided in the tables below.
None of the Directors participated in any other share-based incentive plans during the year.
Aloysius Lee Date of award 29 March 2016 Awards made during the year 185,643 1 Market price of shares used to calculate award 4.0400 Basis of award 150% of salary Face value of award on date of grant 000 750 % vesting at threshold performance 25% Performance measures and targets See following table Performance period end date 31 December 2018 Vesting date 29 March 2019 Market price at the vesting date Monetary value of vested award Note: 1.
The number of shares awarded was calculated using the 5 day average middle market share price ending on 24 March 2016, one business day prior to the date of grant.
1 The names of the companies forming the peer group are shown in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
58 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information The performance measures, targets and vesting thresholds are set out below.
1 Performance Measure Weighting Minimum Threshold Level of Vesting Maximum Threshold Level of Vesting Cumulative EPS 60% 95 pence 25% 115 pence 100% Net Asset Value growth plus dividends 20% 5% p. a.
Vesting levels between threshold and maximum will be assessed on a straight-line basis.
The FTSE 250 comparator group excludes investment trusts.
The peer group comprises Accor, Banyan Tree Holdings, Belmond, Choice Hotels International, Hongkong & Shanghai Hotels, Hotel Properties, Hyatt Hotels, InterContinental Hotels Group, Mandarin Oriental, Marriott International, Melia Hotels International, NH Hotels, Overseas Union Enterprise, Rezidor, Shanghai Jin Jiang International, Shangri-La Asia, Starwood Hotels & Resorts, Whitbread and Wyndham Worldwide.
Merged with Marriott International on 23 September 2016 Payments made to past directors Except as disclosed elsewhere in this report, no payments to past Directors were made during 2016.
As set out above, the LTIP award made in 2014 to, and held by, Wong Hong Ren will lapse in full on 4 April 2017.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office made during the year.
The termination arrangements agreed with Aloysius Lee are set out in the Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2017 section below.
All sums paid to him, or which are to be paid to him, in respect of 2016 are included in the single total figure of remuneration table.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests The interests of the Directors who served during 2016, and their connected persons, in the ordinary shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc were as follows: 2 Number of ordinary shares owned outright Number of scheme interests LTIP awards which LTIP awards which are not subject to are subject to future Value of ordinary shares Holding on Holding on performance conditions performance conditions Total interests as at owned outright as a 1 Director 31 December 2016 1 January 2016 at 31 December 2016 at 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 percentage of salary Chairman 2 Kwek Leng Beng N A Executive Directors 3 Aloysius Lee 320,051 320,051 0% Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz N A Daniel Desbaillets N A Susan Farr N A Nicholas George 12,500 12,500 12,500 N A 3 Kwek Eik Sheng N A 3 Kwek Leng Peck N A Gervase MacGregor N A Alexander Waugh N A Notes: 1.
For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings as a percentage of salary, the individuals salary and the share price as at 31 December 2016 were used.
The interests of the Directors appointed by City Developments Limited in that company and its ultimate parent company, Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd, are disclosed in the accounts of those companies.
LTIP interests comprise the 134,408 shares granted to Aloysius Lee pursuant to the 2015 LTIP award, details of which can be found in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, and 185,643 shares relating to the LTIP award made during 2016, details of which can be found above.
In addition to shares or scheme interests in the Company, Mr Lee due to his appointment as a director of the following subsidiaries of the Company, holds 1 share in each such subsidiary: Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, Rogo Realty Corporation and Harbour Land Corporation.
These shares were transferred from Wong Hong Ren.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Director shareholding requirements are as disclosed earlier in this report, on page 53.
As Mr Lee was appointed as an Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2015, he was not required to have met the requirements by 31 December 2016.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests between 31 December 2016 and the date of this report.
Unaudited Information Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2017 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our Remuneration Policy in 2017.
Retirement of the Group Chief Executive Officer Given the impending retirement of Aloysius Lee in early 2017, his basic salary will remain unchanged at 500,000 per annum.
No annual bonus will be payable for 2017 and no performance share award made to him under the LTIP.
Mr Lees pay and allowances due under his service agreement will cease on 31 January 2017, and he will retire from the Board and as Group Chief Executive Officer, as previously announced, at the end of 28 February 2017.
He will retain the performance shares awards made to him under the LTIP in 2015 and 2016 in accordance with the rules of the LTIP for a good leaver by virtue of his forthcoming retirement with the consent of the Company.
The Committee has determined that the vesting of the awards will not be accelerated and will vest on their normal vesting date subject to the relevant agreed performance conditions, time pro-rating and the rules of the scheme.
Remuneration of Executive Directors to be appointed in 2017 The basic salary of any other Executive Director appointed to the Board during the year will be agreed by the Committee at the appropriate time, in conjunction with any appointment, and be aligned with the Companys Remuneration policy.
The financial performance measures indicated below will apply to their annual bonus whilst such Directors personal objectives will be agreed by the Committee at the appropriate time.
The Committee believes that the specific financial targets are commercially sensitive given their alignment with the Companys operating budget and strategic plans for 2017, and that consequently it is not appropriate to disclose them in this report.
The Committee will consider the extent such targets and objectives will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration after the conclusion of the year.
Financial Performance Measures Weighting Group Revenue 10% Underlying Group Profit Before Tax 50% Total 60% Personal Key Performance Objectives Weighting To be agreed with any new Executive Director 40% Total 40% 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan award The maximum value of any LTIP awards granted during the year will remain at 150% of basic salary for a Group Chief Executive Officer and 100% of basic salary for any other Executive Director, subject to any recruitment considerations.
The Committee has reviewed the current LTIP structure and as such has proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy.
These changes are set out in Remuneration Policy contained within this Directors remuneration report.
Subject to the Policy being approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the performance conditions attaching to any future award will be reviewed on the appointment of a new Executive Director and aligned with this new Policy.
The performance targets will reflect the Groups three-year forecast, be based on its strategy and business plan over the coming years, and be appropriately stretching when compared to other FTSE companies.
60 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information The vesting period and any additional holding period will be determined at the date of grant.
Pension and benefits As in 2016, Aloysius Lee will receive a cash pension contribution worth 20% of his basic salary in 2017, up to the end of January 2017.
He also will continue to receive a standard package of other benefits consistent with those received in 2016 for this period.
The pension and benefits for any other Executive Director appointed during the year will be determined at that time and in compliance with the approved Remuneration policy.
Non-Executive Director fees The basic fee for the Non-Executive Directors will continue to be 50,000 per annum in 2017.
Non-Executive Directors also will continue to receive separate annual fees for their service as a member and, to the extent applicable, the chair of a Board committee, and the Senior Independent Director, will be paid an additional fee of 10,000 per annum to serve in such capacity.
Details of the additional committee fees are set out in the table below.
Committee Annual fee for membership of a committee Additional annual Chairmans fee Audit Committee 5,000 10,000 Remuneration Committee 5,000 10,000 Nominations Committee 2,000 Risk Committee 3,000 5,000 The annual fee for the Chairman of the Board, including the basic fee paid to Non-Executive Directors, will remain unchanged at 250,000 for 2017.
Also, the Chairman will continue to receive fees for serving as a director of certain subsidiary companies.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Additional disclosures Performance of the Company and historic remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer The following graph illustrates the total shareholder return of the Companys shares and comparator indexes over the past seven years.
As the Company is a constituent of both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Allshare Travel & Leisure index, the Directors consider these indices to be the most appropriate broad equity market indices against which the Companys performance should be compared for these purposes.
The remuneration history of the Group Chief Executive Officer over the same period also is provided.
Millennium & Copthorne 8-year TSR performance Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc FTSE250 excluding investment trusts FTSE Allshare Travel & Leisure 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 Remuneration history of the Group Chief Executive Officer 1 2 3 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 000 1,243 4,404 1,495 2,287 1,429 1,389 832 Annual bonus as a percentage of maximum opportunity 100% 63% 37% 67% 62% 19% 15% LTIP vesting rates as a percentage of maximum opportunity 0% 100% 100% 50% 0% 0% 0% Notes: 1.
Richard Hartman retired as Group Chief Executive Officer and Wong Hong Ren was appointed to the post on 27 June 2011.
These figures are for both and are restated to be consistent with the other years.
Wong Hong Ren stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 February 2015 and Aloysius Lee was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer Designate from 1 February 2015 and assumed the full role as of 1 March 2015.
These figures are for both.
Includes final two months of payments under his service contract.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer The tables below show the percentage change in remuneration based on salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2015 and 2016 for the Group Chief Executive Officer and employees within the Groups bonus pool.
1 % Change from 2015 to 2016 Basic Salary Benefits Bonus 2 Group Chief Executive Officer 13 3 Employees 2 4 37 1.
All percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into pounds sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
Group Chief Executive Officer change is the percentage change between the remuneration paid to Mr Lee in 2015 and 2016.
The salary and benefits paid to Mr Lee in 2015 have been trued up to equate to a full year.
Change in bonus relates to payments made in the respective year.
62 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total pay for colleagues across the Group being the aggregate personnel expenses as set out in Note 8 to the financial statements and distributions to shareholders being declared dividends.
The average number of colleagues employed by the Group in 2016 was 10,996 2015: 10,870.
2015 2016 m m Change % Employee remuneration costs 351 352 Dividends distributed 44 21 52 Statement of voting at general meeting The following table sets out the proxy voting in respect of the resolutions to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the 2015 Directors remuneration report, which resolutions were put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meetings held on 1 May 2014 and 5 May 2016, respectively, and passed on a show of hands.
The Directors were pleased with the support received from shareholders.
Resolution Votes for % of vote Votes against % of vote Votes withheld % of vote Approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 281,458,849 99.09% 2,573,555 0.91% 10,619,954 3.60% Approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 308,118,428 98.75% 3,914,366 1.25% 538,829 0.17% includes discretionary votes This Directors remuneration report will be put to an advisory vote of the shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2017.
Changes to the Remuneration policy are being proposed and in line with best practice and as required by the regulations, the Remuneration policy, as contained within this Directors remuneration report, also will be submitted to shareholders for approval at that Annual General Meeting.
Consideration by the Committee members of matters relating to directors remuneration The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers if it considers such an appointment to be beneficial.
In 2012 the Committee conducted a tender process and selected Kepler Associates as the Committees remuneration adviser.
Kepler Associates, who are now known as Kepler, a brand of Mercer, continued to act in that capacity during 2016, where over the course of the year, consultants from Kepler attended most of the Committees meetings and provided advice on a range of topics, including remuneration trends and best practices and the design of the performance share incentive plans.
Separately, the Company also received from Kepler advice on the accounting treatment of share options required by IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
Kepler provided no other services to the Company.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
The consultants from Kepler are routinely asked to confirm any conflicts and the Committee is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
Kepler generally charges on an hourly basis.
The aggregate amount of fees paid to Kepler during 2016 was 30,100 2015: 62,000.
During 2017, the Committee intends to conduct a tender process for the advisory service it receives.
The tender will include Kepler and a select group of alternative advisers and the Committee will report on the result of that process in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board and Group Chief Executive Officer are invited to attend Committee meetings.
In addition to the remuneration consultant, the Committee considers their views when reviewing the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Individuals who attend Remuneration Committee meetings do not participate in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 63 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued External appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden the executives knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Group.
Fees payable to Executive Directors in connection with external appointments may be retained by them with the approval of the Committee.
As at the date of this report, Mr Lee does not hold any external appointments.
Satisfaction of performance share awards Performance share awards are made for nil consideration and are satisfied either by the issue of new shares or through market purchases of shares.
Currently the company has in place an employee benefit trust known as the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Employee Benefit Trust 2006 the EBT, which was established to acquire shares to satisfy performance share awards that may vest from time to time.
As at 31 December 2016, the EBT held 2,244 unallocated shares 2015: 5,758 shares, representing approximately 0.00069% of the Companys issued share capital as at the same date.
Executive Directors who participate in the LTIP, together with other employees of the Group who participate in the LTIP and other performance share schemes, are potential beneficiaries of the EBT and, as such, are deemed to be interested in any shares held.
Dilution The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains within best practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not exceed 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital for allemployee share plans and 5 per cent in respect of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Company monitors dilution levels on a regular basis and the Committee reviews these at least once a year.
Share price The market price of a Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc ordinary share at 31 December 2016 was 460.4 pence and the range during the year was 366.4 pence to 483.1 pence.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and was approved at a meeting of the Board held on 16 February 2017.
On behalf of the Board Alexander Waugh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 February 2017 64 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016
