Report on Directors remuneration Imelda Walsh 2016 remuneration Chair of the The 2016 annual bonus plan had two elements, Adjusted Operating Remuneration 1 Profit Operating Profit and Guest Service.
Reported Operating Profit Committee of 318m was short of the threshold level set by the Committee and therefore no bonus under this element was payable.
The primary measure of Guest Service was Net Promoter Score NPS, which used a guest survey to measure satisfaction.
At the time the Committee set the targets, the Company was reviewing both the survey provider and the method by which data was collected.
Therefore, the I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report in Committee decided that additional guest metrics would be reviewed respect of the financial year which ended on 24 September 2016. alongside the NPS score to ensure that any final assessment of guest service improvement was robust.
The Guest Service measure was also Background and business context subject to Operating Profit achieving a threshold level of performance.
Under the old survey basis, the NPS score achieved was 67.1%, which At the start of the 2016 financial year Phil Urban was appointed as Chief would, potentially, have triggered the maximum pay-out under this Executive.
As I explained in my statement last year Phil brought to the element.
However, as described above, the Committee would still have role extensive experience and a strong track record in the industry and, taken into account other metrics such as guest complaint resolution and having joined M&B earlier in 2015 as Chief Operating Officer, had data from TripAdvisor.
In the view of the Committee this would have already established good working relationships with the Board and led to a probable reduction in the percentage due under this element.
This enabled Phil to undertake a review of the However, as the threshold level of Operating Profit had not been business very quickly and establish his strategic priorities.
This review achieved, no award under this bonus element was made.
concluded that the best way of delivering sustainable shareholder returns was to accelerate the organic growth of the business by focusing The 2014-2016 Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP performance on three key objectives: condition also had two elements, growth in adjusted earnings per share 1 EPS and total shareholder return TSR, each element weighted Building a more balanced business equally.
Over the performance period EPS growth was 2.7% p. a. Instilling a more commercial culture below the threshold level of performance required for vesting.
TSR performance was also below the median threshold required for vesting.
As a result, awards under both elements lapsed.
Good progress has been made during the year against these objectives.
In June 2016 an award was made under the terms of the PRSP in respect We have carried out a full review of the estate, and as a result have of the 2016-2018 performance period, details of which are set out on identified a number of opportunities: in some cases to convert into more pages 75 and 76.
In my statement last year, I outlined the Committees optimal brands, and in others to develop the existing brand and guest intention to delay the granting of this award.
A new CEO had just been offer through remodel investment.
For example, this approach has seen appointed and Phil had initiated a review of all aspects of the business.
us increase the number of Miller & Carter businesses through successful The Committee wanted the new strategic priorities, once presented to acquisitions and conversions, and we have also evolved our Pizza & and agreed by the Board, to be considered by the Committee before Carvery offer into Stonehouse, a new brand in its own right.
Overall, we agreeing the design and targets for the FY 2016 PRSP award.
Following have significantly increased the number of remodels and conversions, a period of consultation with major shareholders and investor groups, improving amenity level across the estate, which reflects the level of the Committee agreed to retain the existing plan structure, and therefore capital being invested in the guest-facing areas of our businesses.
two performance conditions, growth in adjusted EPS and relative TSR A number of other work streams were established to support the second apply.
The EPS target range has a threshold level of performance set and third priorities, aimed at taking a structured approach to delivering at 4% growth p. a. and maximum set at 8% growth p. a.
The Committee a wide range of operational and other improvements.
The main areas believed that this represented a demanding range in the context of the of focus for these work streams, which will continue into FY 2017, earnings forecast at the time of the award, given the significant cost were digital and technology, new market opportunities, including challenges the business faced.
These included the introduction of the home delivery, and better operational effectiveness.
National Living Wage in April 2016.
At the time of setting the targets, Trading over the first half of the year was disappointing with sales a 4% to 8% p. a. growth range was broadly equivalent to 9.5% to 13% p. a. declining by 1.6%, however performance improved over the second growth if the expected impact of the National Living Wage was excluded.
half as the initiatives described above began to take effect, with sales improving on a like-for-like basis by 0.2%.
We ended the year with total sales falling by 0.7% and like-for-like sales of minus 0.8%.
Operating Profit fell by 3% to 318m which was linked to the decline in total sales and was also a result of wage inflation, primarily driven by the introduction of the National Living Wage NLW in April 2016.
The higher levels of investment increased the number of weeks that businesses were closed for development or refurbishment.
Adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating profit included in the report on Directors remuneration, are quoted before separately disclosed items as set out in note 2.2.
58 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Approach for 2017 In setting the EPS target range, the Committee has considered the impact on earnings resulting from the ongoing work to reposition the No changes to the remuneration policy are sought this year, but I would estate, and the impact of the NLW.
In addition, the past 6 months has like to draw attention to the following points: seen further cost headwinds emerge, for example the impact of weaker sterling on input costs, the Apprenticeship Levy and increases Annual Bonus to utility, rent and business rates.
In light of this, the Committee The annual bonus plan will continue to be based 75% on Operating believes the EPS range remains very challenging in the circumstances.
Profit and 25% on Guest Service.
To further understanding, the Committee has decided to include an The Committee will continue to set demanding targets for both update on performance for all outstanding PRSP awards.
At the Operating Profit and Guest Service.
The threshold at which a bonus present time, our assessment is for nil vesting for the 2015-2017 and nil will begin to accrue will be set at 95% of target, slightly lower than in to threshold vesting for 2016-2018 PRSP awards.
Further information 2016, reflecting the demanding nature of the target set by the can be found on page 75.
Maximum payment for the Operating Profit element will be for achievement of 105% of target, increased from 103% in 2016.
Salary The amounts payable at threshold, target and maximum remain No salary increase will apply for any Executive Director.
Phil Urbans unchanged from 2016. salary will remain at 510,000 and Tim Jones as 426,500.
Salaries will The Committee felt that a slightly wider performance range was next be reviewed as part of the upcoming Remuneration Policy review.
appropriate given the ongoing economic uncertainty and continuing cost pressures, including the additional costs associated with the Remuneration Policy Review accelerated investment in our estate, which increases the number of As our Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2015 AGM we will, closure weeks due to site redevelopment.
Whilst these closures have over the coming year, undertake a review of our policy prior to a short-term impact, in the medium term good returns are anticipated.
submitting a new Remuneration Policy for consideration and approval There is also an expectation that the other work streams referred to at the 2018 AGM.
This review will take into account all relevant factors, above will begin to positively impact sales, and there may be some including the implementation of the business strategy and other external further benefit as we see higher wages from the introduction of the impacts.
It is not possible at this stage to determine if any changes to the NLW flowing through to the wider economy.
current policy will be necessary, but should this be the case then, as ever, NPS will continue to be the lead measure of Guest Service.
The the Committee is committed to maintaining an open and constructive targets are now based on the new survey, which the Committee dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
believes has a more robust method of collecting data and therefore The Committee and I are particularly cognisant of emerging practice result validity.
Guests are being invited to provide feedback in and guidance in relation to executive pay and the potential for further different ways, either directly by a member of the team or by email or evolution over the coming months.
One area of particular focus is the text invitation following their visit.
Again, the Guest Service element relationship between CEO pay and that of the wider workforce, and with will only be payable if the threshold level of financial performance is this in mind the Committee has decided to include the pay ratio of the achieved.
For 2017 this has been set at 95% of target in line with the CEOs total pay versus median pay of other employees in this years threshold level set for Operating Profit.
report, details of which can be found on page 80.
We have provided this The Committee has also agreed that prior to any bonus being additional disclosure but look forward to greater debate and clarification approved in relation to Guest Service, progress against other guest over the method of calculation and how this additional information will metrics will be considered, such as TripAdvisor reviews and the speed inform discussion on executive remuneration.
at which guest complaints are addressed.
This rounded assessment If you have any comments or questions on any element of the report, will ensure that guest service improvements are assessed please email me, care of Craig Provett, Director of Compensation & comprehensively and not solely based on a single metric.
com More broadly, the Committee is committed to ensuring that any bonus or incentive payment is consistent and representative of the overall performance of the Company.
Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP 21 November 2016 A PRSP award is due to be made in respect of the 2017 to 2019 performance period.
The Committee has reviewed the terms of the This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and has been approved by the Board.
award and concluded that the performance measures should remain The report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act disclosure regulations unchanged from the June 2016 award, with two equal elements, the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports 1 Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
growth in adjusted EPS EPS and relative TSR.
The Committee has also concluded that the EPS target range should remain unchanged, with the threshold set at 4% growth p. a. and maximum vesting at 8% growth p. a.
59 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued FY 2016 annual bonus At a glance The annual bonus was based on two elements: 75% on Operating Profit This section briefly summarises the principles that underpin our and 25% on Guest Service as measured by our NPS.
remuneration policy, highlights performance and remuneration Target Actual Result outcomes for FY 2016, and our approach for FY 2017.
More Operating Profit 335m 318m Nil bonus due detail can be found in the annual report on remuneration on pages 72 to 81.
NPS 66% 67.1% Nil bonus due While the NPS target was achieved, no bonus was payable as the threshold level of Remuneration principles financial performance had not been achieved, this being 328m Operating Profit in respect of FY 2016.
Shareholder alignment No bonus awards have been made to Executive Directors in respect of A high proportion of reward is delivered in the form of equity, ensuring FY 2016 performance.
Executives have strong alignment with shareholders.
FY 2016 PRSP vesting Competitive The PRSP awards granted in 2013 had a performance period ending on Providing competitive reward that promotes the long-term success of the 24 September 2016.
50% of the award was based on relative TSR business whilst enabling the attraction, retention and motivation of high 1 performance and 50% on EPS growth.
Target Actual % vesting Performance-linked Total Shareholder Return relative to Median median A significant part of an Executives reward is linked to the performance of peer group x 1.35 Below median Nil the business with a clear line of sight between business performance and Compound annual delivery of shareholder value.
adjusted EPS growth 8% 16% CAGR 2.7% p. a. Nil Straightforward TSR performance was below median and EPS growth of 2.7% p. a. over The remuneration structure is simple to understand for participants and the period was below the threshold, therefore no part of the award vests.
shareholders and is aligned to the strategic priorities of the business.
FY 2016 single figure remuneration for Executive Directors Short-term Pension related Long-term Total Basic salaries Taxable benefits incentives benefits incentives remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Phil Urban 509 15 89 613 Tim Jones 425 15 75 515 Total 934 30 164 1,128 Approach for FY 2017 Salary No increases to salary will apply for Executive Directors.
Benefits and pension No change proposed.
A pension contribution or cash equivalent of 20% of salary, will continue to apply.
Annual bonus No change to potential quantum 100% of salary.
75% will be based on Operating Profit and 25% on Guest Service.
Half of any bonus payable will be deferred in shares and released in equal parts after 12 and 24 months.
PRSP Award levels remain unchanged, 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of salary for the Finance Director.
No change to the performance condition proposed, which will continue to have two equally weighed elements, adjusted EPS growth and relative TSR.
Threshold vesting under the EPS element will be 4% growth p. a. and maximum vesting is achieved at 8% growth p. a.
Under the TSR element threshold vesting is achieved for TSR performance equivalent to the median of the comparator group and maximum vesting is achieved for upper quartile performance.
60 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Policy report This section of the report sets out the Companys remuneration policy as approved at the 2015 AGM and the performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect the salaries effective from 1 January 2017 and the value of benefits paid in FY 2016.
The Committee is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website: www.
com investors businessconduct boardcommittees and on request.
The Committees responsibilities include: making recommendations to the Board on the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior Executives giving full consideration to the Code and setting the remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and compensation payments: taking account of all factors necessary when determining the policy, the objective of which shall be to ensure remuneration policy promotes the long-term success of the Company without paying more than is necessary: and aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders by providing the potential to earn significant rewards where significant shareholder value has been delivered.
The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the business and accordingly takes account of a range of factors when setting remuneration policy including market conditions, pay and benefits in relevant comparator organisations, terms and conditions of employment across the Group, the Companys risk appetite and shareholder feedback.
The Committee considers a broad range of internal and external information in determining policy: this includes a review of external benchmarking information when reviewing Executive Directors base pay and as required on appointment of a new Executive Director or Executive Committee member.
While market data is provided to the Committee by its independently appointed advisers, such data provides the context for setting pay levels and the Committee does not consider it in isolation.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors set out over the following pages supports the business needs of the Company, ensuring it promotes the long-term success of the business whilst enabling the Company to attract, retain and motivate senior Executives of a high calibre.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy supports the Companys business strategy of growing long-term shareholder value and appropriately balances fixed and variable remuneration.
With a high proportion of reward delivered in the form of equity, this ensures that Executives have strong alignment with shareholders through the Companys share price.
For clarity of reporting, references to the Sharesave Plan Sharesave, Share Incentive Plan SIP, Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP and Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP refer both to share awards under these original schemes and, following the expiry of these schemes for grant purposes, subsequent awards under their respective replacement schemes on substantially the same terms.
Both the original schemes and their replacements in 2013 were approved by shareholders.
61 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Policy table The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Base salary Provides a sound basis on Salaries are normally subject to Normally set broadly around Executive Directors performance No recovery or withholding which to attract and retain annual review.
mid-market levels with increases is a factor considered when applies.
Executives of appropriate in line with that of the Companys determining salaries.
Performance Salary levels may be influenced by: calibre to deliver the strategic UK workforce.
is reviewed in line with the objectives of the Group.
established performance review role, experience or performance: Percentage increases beyond process in place across the Group.
To reflect the market value those granted to the wider Group profitability and prevailing of the role, personal workforce may be awarded in market conditions: and contribution, experience certain circumstances such as periodic external benchmarking and competence.
when there is a change in the of similar roles at comparable individuals role or responsibility companies by size and sector.
or where there has been a fundamental change in the scale Any increase is normally effective or nature of the Company.
In addition, a higher increase may Payable in cash, four-weekly be made where an individual had throughout the year.
been appointed to a new role at below market salary while gaining experience.
Subsequent demonstration of strong performance may result in a salary increase that is higher than for the wider workforce.
There may also be circumstances where the Committee agrees to pay above mid-market levels to secure or retain an individual who is considered, in the judgement of the Committee, to possess significant and relevant experience which is required to enable the delivery of the Companys strategy.
62 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Annual Performance Bonus cash and shares Provides a direct link between Bonus payment level is determined Currently, the normal maximum At least 75% of bonus will be based Clawback and malus will apply the achievement of annual by the Committee by reference to payment is 100% of base salary.
This may be to the cash bonus and deferred business performance targets performance against the targets a single measure or a mix of metrics shares where there has been a At the discretion of the and reward.
set by the Committee prior to the as determined by the Committee.
misstatement of the accounts, Committee, the maximum commencement of the or other data, or a serious Deferred bonus, awarded in earnings potential may be No more than 25% will be based on performance year.
The cash misdemeanour or serious shares, provides a retention increased in line with the plan non-financial measures or personal element of the bonus is normally misconduct by the participant element and additional rules up to 150% of base salary.
payable in December following the has occurred prior to payment alignment of interests to end of the financial year.
or vesting or within two years Payment of non-financial measures shareholders.
of payment or vesting of shares.
may be subject to a financial Up to half of any bonus award is performance threshold.
At least half of any bonus award is deferred as Up to 50% of bonus may be earned shares under the terms of the for achieving a demanding target STDIP below.
with full payout for achieving a second, more demanding target.
Key terms of the STDIP are: The nature of the performance deferred bonus share awards are measure s and the targets are normally released in two equal reviewed in advance of each amounts 12 and 24 months after new award.
deferral: and The Committee has the discretion at the discretion of the to vary the mix of measures or to Committee dividends paid introduce new measures to reflect between grant and vesting may business need.
As the bonus is subject to Non-pensionable.
performance conditions, any deferred bonus is not subject to further conditions.
The Committee may alter the bonus outcome if it considers that the payout is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
This will help ensure that payouts reflect overall Company performance during the period.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
63 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP To incentivise delivery of Discretionary annual award of The normal maximum annual Performance condition is measured Clawback and malus applies on the sustained growth through nominal cost options.
award of nominal cost options is over three financial years.
same basis as the annual bonus.
superior long-term 200% of base salary.
Vested options are exercisable The current performance condition performance, provide an immediately following confirmation The maximum award may be includes EPS growth and total element of retention and of performance.
increased in line with the plan shareholder return TSR relative increase alignment with rules to 250% of base salary.
Any to a peer group of comparator shareholders.
At the discretion of the Committee increase to the normal maximum companies.
vested options attract Dividend award of 200% of base salary, Accrued Shares between award For each element, 25% of the other than in exceptional and vesting.
award will vest for threshold circumstances such as recruitment, performance.
100% of the would also be subject to prior Under the rules of the PRSP, award will vest for maximum consultation with leading investors.
conditional share awards may performance.
Straight-line vesting also be granted although there applies between threshold and is currently no plan to grant maximum.
The Committee has the flexibility Non-pensionable.
to vary the mix of measures or to introduce new measures.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before implementing any change.
The Committee may alter the vesting outcome if it considers that the level of vesting is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
This will help ensure that vesting reflects overall Company performance during the period.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the vesting outcome.
64 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding All-Employee Share Plans To underpin the employee All eligible employees, including Sharesave: Maximum savings up Sharesave: No performance Sharesave: No recovery or engagement strategy and the Executive Directors, can to HMRC limits currently 500 per metrics apply.
encourage employees to have participate in the HM Revenue & month over a three or five year SIP: No performance metrics SIP: No recovery or withholding a financial stake in the future Customs HMRC approved maturity period.
SIP: Maximum Free Share award Sharesave: all eligible employees up to HMRC limit currently 3,600 can save over a three or five year per tax year.
Proceeds from the up to HMRC limit currently with savings contract may be used to an initial value of up to 1,800 per acquire shares in the Company at tax year.
an option price fixed at the date of invitation.
SIP: all eligible employees are invited to participate.
A Free Share award is made annually.
Free shares are typically held in trust for at least three years.
In addition, eligible employees may purchase, from their gross pay, Partnership Shares.
Partnership Shares are held in trust and can be released at any time.
Income tax and National Insurance Contributions are normally payable on the value of shares released within five years of purchase.
The Committee has discretion under the SIP rules to operate Matching Share and Dividend Share elements, although there is currently no plan to do so.
Pension or cash allowance To provide a market-aligned Payment into a Company pension, The Company contribution is a No performance metrics apply.
No recovery or withholding retirement benefit.
personal individual pension and or maximum of 20% of base salary.
a cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions once statutory limits Fixed Protection and Annual Allowance are reached, or a combination of both.
65 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Other benefits To provide market-aligned Benefits include but are not In line with market practice, the No performance metrics apply.
No recovery or withholding applies benefits.
limited to private healthcare, life value of benefits may vary from other than if relocation costs were assurance, annual health check, year to year depending on the provided.
A proportion of any employee assistance programme, cost to the Company from relocation costs may be recovered use of a Company vehicle or cash third-party suppliers.
where a Director leaves the equivalent, and discounts on food employment of the Group within and associated drinks purchased in two years of appointment or date our businesses.
is provided for the Executive, spouse or partner and dependent children.
Discount vouchers are provided on the same basis to all employees and can be redeemed in any of our managed businesses provided the purchase is a personal, not a business, expense.
Relocation or the temporary provision of accommodation may be offered where the Company requires a Director to relocate.
Expatriate allowances may be offered where required.
Travel and, if relevant, related expenses such as accommodation may be reimbursed on a gross of tax basis.
Executive Directors may become eligible for any new benefits introduced to a wider set of other Group employees.
Shareholding policy To align the interests of the The Chief Executive is required to n a n a n a Executive Directors with hold Mitchells & Butlers shares to shareholders and promote the value of a minimum of 150% a long-term approach to of base salary.
Directors are required to hold Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 100% of base salary.
Except for those sold to cover the acquisition cost together with the associated income tax and National Insurance contributions, Executive Directors will normally be required to retain shares arising from share schemes until the minimum level of ownership required has been achieved.
It is expected that the guideline will normally be achieved within five years of appointment to the Board.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director or a connected person are included.
Shares or share options which are subject to a performance condition are not included.
Deferred shares and options which are vested but unexercised are also not included.
The value of the Shareholding will be the number of shares owned multiplied by the average share price over the previous three months up to the date of valuation.
66 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Notes to the policy table Table 1 summarises the reasons behind the selection of the performance metrics, and sets out the categories of employee, other than Executive Directors, who are eligible to participate in each scheme.
Table 2 compares the remuneration and benefits received by Executive Directors with that received by other Group employees.
Table 1 Element Notes Annual Performance The main emphasis of the annual plan is to reward management for the achievement of financial targets such as profit growth, which is a key indicator Bonus of the Companys performance.
Non-financial measures are intended to measure whether management are delivering against key lead performance indicators.
Targets are determined annually by the Committee.
All salaried employees participate in a bonus scheme.
Save for certain operational and operational support roles where some, or all, of the annual bonus relates directly to the performance of the business or area for which the participant is responsible, a common annual bonus target applies across all participating employees.
Retail staff do not participate in any bonus scheme.
PRSP Senior employees, including Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, participate in the PRSP.
No long-term incentive plans apply for any other employees.
Measures for Executive Directors include: EPS growth which is a measure of overall profitability of the business for investors over the long term and therefore is a fundamental element of aligning shareholders interests with those of executives.
Relative TSR performance which provides a measure of long-term success of the Company relative to an appropriate group of peer comparators.
Table 2 Remuneration and benefits Provision of Company car A Company car or cash alternative is provided only where it is determined that there is a commercial requirement or business need to do so.
or cash alternative Private healthcare The majority of employees entitled to receive private healthcare do so on an employee only basis.
Private healthcare is not provided to assistant management appointed on or after 30 September 2012, or to retail staff.
Health check A Company funded health check is available on request to senior and middle management retail support employees.
Other salaried employees have access to online health and wellbeing support through the Companys Employee Assistance Programme EAP.
Employee Assistance The EAP is available to all salaried employees and provides employees with confidential health and wellbeing help and support.
The EAP is not Programme available to retail staff.
Pension The Company contribution to the DC Choice pension plan is between 4.5% and 15% of base salary: assistant management and retail staff employees who are not eligible for the DC Choice pension plan receive a Company contribution of either 1x the member contribution up to 3% of Qualifying Earnings assistant management scheme or the statutory minimum automatic enrolment scheme.
Life assurance Assistant management and retail staff employees who are not eligible to join the DC Choice pension plan do not have life assurance.
Relocation Relocation may be made available to Retail Support Centre employees where the Company requires an employee to relocate for business purposes.
Relocation is not normally provided to retail management or retail staff.
Discount vouchers The discount voucher scheme is approved by HMRC: as the amount payable by the employee, after application of the discount, exceeds the cost of goods the scheme is not considered to be a benefit in kind for tax purposes.
Other benefits Other benefits such as childcare vouchers, bike to work and private dental cover are not listed above as a taxable benefit to the Executive Directors.
Where an Executive Director participates, he does so at his own cost as the benefit is administered by, but not funded by, the Company.
NICwise, a National Insurance efficient way for a member to make contributions to the pension plan, is provided at no cost to the employee or Company, The range of benefits offered to Executive Directors is offered to all senior management employees of the Group.
Shareholding policy The shareholding policy is only in place for Executive Directors.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors before the current legislation on remuneration policies came into force or before an individual became a Director such as the payment outstanding on incentive awards even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
67 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the incentive plans described in the policy table according to their respective rules, the policy set out above and in accordance with the Listing Rules, applicable legislation and HMRC guidance where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of award and or payment, subject to policy limits: the choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special dividends.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Fees To attract and retain Payable in cash, four-weekly Where a Non-Executive Director No performance metrics apply.
No recovery or withholding applies.
Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
undertakes additional of appropriate calibre responsibilities, other than the Fees are normally reviewed annually and experience.
chairing of a committee, additional with any increase usually taking fees may be set, e. g. for a Senior effect from 1 January each year.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee without the Chairman present.
Remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Company Chairman and Executive Directors by reference to companies of similar size and sector as well as time commitment and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee and an additional fee for chairing a committee.
Travel, accommodation and other related expenses incurred in carrying out the role will be paid by the Company including, if relevant, any gross-up for tax.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus arrangements, share schemes, benefit schemes other than the all-employee discount voucher scheme or pension plans.
68 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Illustrations of application of remuneration policy A key principle of the Groups remuneration policy is that variable shortand long-term reward should be linked to the financial performance of the Group.
The charts below show the composition of the new CEOs and the Finance Directors remuneration at minimum, on-target and maximum levels of performance in FY 2017.
Chief Executive 000 Finance Director 000 2,500 2,500 2,144 2,000 2,000 1,541 47.6% 1,500 1,500 38.7% 1,086 848 23.5% 1,000 1,000 23.8% 17.6% 614 27.7% 20.0% 517 21.4% 500 500 100% 56.5% 28.6% 100% 61.0% 33.6% 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives The performance scenarios demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration which would be payable in respect of each remuneration element at each of the performance levels.
In developing these scenarios the following assumptions have been made: Minimum Only the fixed elements of remuneration are payable.
The fixed element consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary effective from 1 January 2017.
Benefits are based on actual FY 2016 figures and include company car, healthcare and taxable expenses.
Pension is the cash allowance and or Company pension contribution payable in respect of base salary from 1 January 2017.
On-target In addition to the minimum, this reflects the amount payable for on-target performance under the short and long-term incentive plans: 42.5% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan: and 25% of the award 50% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 35% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
Maximum In addition to the minimum, maximum payment is achieved under both the short and long-term incentive plans such that: 100% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan: and 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
A breakdown of the elements included in the application of remuneration policy to the remuneration charts is shown in the table below: Fixed 000 Short-term plan 000 Long-term plan 000 Base pay Benefits Pension Total fixed On-target Maximum On-target Maximum Chief Executive 510 15 89 614 217 510 255 1,020 Finance Director 426.5 15 75 516.5 181.3 426.5 149.3 597.1 Note: The value received under the short-term plan is the gross value of awards before 50% is deferred into shares.
The values received under the short-term plan and long-term incentive plan do not take into account dividend accrued shares that are payable on the vesting of awards nor any changes in share price.
69 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Service contracts Executive Directors contracts The table below summarises key elements of the service contracts applicable to Executive Directors: Notice period Executive Directors are employed under service contracts that may be terminated by the Company at any time on one years notice.
a Any payment made in lieu of notice would comprise base salary only and may be payable in instalments in line with the established salary payment dates until the expiry of the notice period or, if earlier, the date on which alternative employment or other engagement is secured with the same or higher base salary.
If employment is secured at a lower rate of base salary, subsequent instalments of the payment in lieu of notice shall be reduced by the value of alternative income.
Service contracts contain a provision enabling the Company to put the Executive Director on garden leave after notice to terminate the service contract has been given by either party.
During this period, the Executive will be entitled to base salary only.
Termination If an Executive Directors employment with the Group ends during the financial year, normally any entitlement to bonus for that year is forfeited.
However, if the individual leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, death or sale of his employing business or company or if the Committee so decides in any other case, at the Committees discretion the Executive Director may receive a bonus pro-rated to time employed in the year or to such later date as the Committee may decide.
The Committee may decide, at its discretion, to pay the bonus all in cash.
If an Executive Director ceases employment following the end of the financial year but before payment of the bonus in respect of that year, there is no entitlement to a bonus but the Committee may, at its discretion, pay a bonus for that year.
Any such bonus, at the Committees discretion, may be all in cash.
If an Executive Director ceases employment prior to the release of Bonus Award Shares under the STDIP for the same specified good leaver reasons as set out above, the Committee, at its discretion, may release the Bonus Award Shares and associated Dividend Accrued Shares at the date of termination.
Otherwise, the shares will be released on the normal release date.
If the Director leaves for any other reason, his entitlement to Bonus Award Shares and associated Dividend Accrued Shares is forfeited, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
If an Executive Director dies before an Award under the PRSP has vested, vesting of the award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares will occur as soon as practicable based on performance and on a time pro-rated basis.
If the Executive Director ceases employment for the same defined good leaver reasons as are specified above, the Award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares will vest following the end of the normal performance period and on a time pro-rated basis.
If employment ceases for any other reason, the Award will normally lapse, unless the Committee decides otherwise except that if employment ceases by reason of gross misconduct the Award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares must lapse.
The Committee has no discretion in relation to shares or options held under the all-employee share plans SIP and Sharesave : on termination these will vest, become exercisable or lapse in accordance with the legislation governing tax favoured plans.
This arrangement applies to Phil Urban.
Any payments in lieu of notice in respect of Tim Jones, whose appointment and service contract pre-dates 27 June 2012 the relevant date for the purposes of the regulations and does not fall within the current policy, will comprise base salary and contractual benefits only.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the Company, and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Directors termination package, including without limitation : compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for the Director executing a settlement agreement: payment of the leaving Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements: and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on consultancy or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
Details of the service contracts of Executive Directors are set out below.
Notice period Minimum notice Compensation on Director Contract start date Unexpired term from Company period from Director change of control a Phil Urban 27 9 15 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No Tim Jones 18 10 10 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No a. Phil Urban became Chief Executive and joined the Board on 27 September 2015.
Phils continuous service date started on 5 January 2015, the date on which he joined the Company as Chief Operating Officer.
Executive Directors may accept one external Non-Executive appointment with the Companys prior approval, as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Fees received may be retained by the Executive Director.
During the year Tim Jones acted as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of Poundland Group plc.
Tim stepped down from the Board of Poundland Group Plc on 16 September 2016, following the acquisition of Poundland Group Plc by Steinhoff Europe AG.
No other Non-Executive appointments applied in the year to 24 September 2016.
70 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Chairman, do not have service contracts but serve under letters of appointment which provide that they are initially appointed until the next AGM when they are required to stand for election.
In line with the Companys Articles, all Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, will stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
This is also in line with the recommendations set out in paragraph B.
Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable without notice and with no entitlement to compensation.
Payment of fees will cease immediately on termination.
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors to the Committee are set out on page 72.
Ron Robson and Josh Levy were appointed to the Board pursuant to the terms of the Piedmont Deed of Appointment, information on which is set out on page 41.
Copies of both the individual letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, and the service contracts for Executive Directors are available at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours and on our website.
Copies will also be available to shareholders to view at the 2017 AGM.
Recruitment of Executive Directors Where it is necessary to appoint a replacement or additional Executive Director, the Committee will set a base salary appropriate to the experience and responsibilities of the new appointee and in line with our policy set out on page 62.
The maximum level of variable pay is 400% of base salary 150% in relation to annual cash bonus STDIP and 250% in relation to the PRSP.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different annual bonus STDIP performance measures and targets as applicable to other Executive Directors.
Benefits including pension, Company vehicle or cash allowance, healthcare, life assurance, health check and, where applicable, relocation assistance would be consistent with the principles of the policy as set out on pages 65 and 66.
For an internal appointment, his or her existing pension arrangements may continue to operate which may include participation as an employee deferred member in the defined benefit plan, which is closed to future accrual and any existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
In the event that a buyout award is necessary to secure the services of an Executive Director then the structure of the award will mirror, as far as is possible, the arrangements in place at the incoming Executive Directors previous employer, and may include cash and or an award of shares.
Any share awards made outside of the Companys existing plans may have no or different performance conditions or a shorter vesting period compared to the Companys existing plans.
Shareholders will be informed of any buyout arrangements at the time of the Executive Directors appointment.
Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors Chairman The Committee will recommend to the Board a fee appropriate to the experience and responsibilities of the new appointee.
Other Non-Executive Directors The fee will be set in line with the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors in place at the date of appointment.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is regularly updated throughout the year on pay and conditions applying to Group employees.
Where significant changes are proposed to employment conditions elsewhere in the Group these are highlighted for the attention of the Committee at an early stage.
The Committee is informed of the base pay review budget applicable to other employees and is cognisant of changes to the National Living Wage and the National Minimum Wage when considering the pay of Executive Directors.
Retail staff pay rates have increased twice in the past 12 months, with an average increase in pay of 6.1% applying for those aged over 25 and all chefs and all supervisory staff in April 2016.
In October 2016 all other retail staff pay rates that did not increase in April were increased by an average of 4%.
Employees are not specifically consulted on Executive remuneration.
All employees are, however, invited to take part in our annual Your Say employee engagement survey in which they have an opportunity to provide anonymous feedback on a wide range of topics of interest or concern to them.
The results of the survey are reviewed by the Board: any significant concerns over remuneration would be considered separately by the Committee and, if appropriate, taken into account when determining the remuneration policy.
In addition, each year an employee forum is held, which gives the opportunity for employees to ask questions of senior management, via elected representatives.
This year the forum was hosted by the Chief Executive and attended by members of the Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Chair will discuss with the Company the benefit of the Chair attending the forum on an annual basis to answer questions raised by employee representatives concerning Executive pay.
Consideration of shareholder views This policy was set following consultation with major shareholders and investor groups in 2014.
During the year major shareholders and representative bodies were consulted in relation to PRSP targets for the 2016-18 performance period.
The Committee welcomed the feedback received and took this into account before agreeing the performance targets.
Major shareholders and their representative bodies will continue to be consulted where material changes to the Executive Directors remuneration policy are being considered.
71 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Annual report on remuneration This section details the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman for the financial year ended 24 September 2016.
This report and the Chairs annual statement will be subject to a single advisory vote at the AGM on 24 January 2017.
Committee membership and operation Committee members and their respective appointment dates are detailed in the table below.
Name Date of appointment Name Date of appointment Imelda Walsh Chair 11 July 2013 Bob Ivell 11 July 2013 Colin Rutherford 11 July 2013 Ron Robson 11 July 2013 Stewart Gilliland 11 July 2013 Eddie Irwin 11 July 2013 Dave Coplin 29 Feb 2016 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Committee activity during the year The Committee met five times during the year and agenda items included the following: October 2015 2016 Bonus arrangements November 2015 Confirmation of 2013-15 PRSP Vesting 2016 Bonus targets Update on Directors shareholdings Review of Directors expenses Release of the second tranche of the 2013 deferred bonus award March 2016 2016-18 PRSP, options for plan structure National Living Wage implementation 2016 Annual Bonus update April 2016 2016-18 PRSP target setting and investor consultation September 2016 2016 Bonus projection Employment conditions in the Group employee engagement results and impact of NLW Update on governance developments 72 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Advice to the Committee During the year, the Committee continued to receive advice from New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Plc.
NBS were appointed following 1 a competitive tender in 2014.
Total fees payable in respect of remuneration advice in the reporting year totalled 76,355.
Neither NBS nor Aon Plc provide any other services to the Group.
Advice was also received from the Companys legal advisers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, on the operation of the Companys employee share schemes and on corporate governance matters.
Clifford Chance LLP also provided advice in relation to pension schemes.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from its advisers was objective and independent.
The Committee determines the policy and individual remuneration package for each Executive Director and the Company Chairman.
In addition, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board on any new long-term incentive plans, but such plans are approved by the Board as a whole and, where necessary, by shareholders.
Members of management including Susan Martindale, the Group HR Director and Craig Provett, the Director of Compensation & Benefits, are invited to attend meetings on remuneration matters where appropriate.
They are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration arrangements are decided.
The Company Chairman does not attend Board or Committee meetings when his remuneration is under review.
Phil Urban and Tim Jones were present at meetings where the Companys longand short-term incentive arrangements and share schemes were discussed.
However, each declared an interest in the matters under review.
20% VAT was paid on the advisers fees shown above.
Statement of voting at AGM At the last AGM, the resolutions on the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: a b Votes cast Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld Annual Report on Remuneration 351,084,874 349,870,201 99.65 1,214,673 0.35 2,683,462 a.
The For vote includes those giving the Company Chairman discretion.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
Pay outcomes The tables and related disclosures set out on pages 74 to 78 on Directors remuneration, deferred annual bonus share awards STDIP, PRSP share options, Share Incentive Plan and pension benefits have been audited by Deloitte LLP.
73 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Directors remuneration The tables set out the single figure remuneration received by the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors during the reporting year.
Details of performance under the annual bonus plan are set out on pages 74 and 75.
Taxable benefits for the year comprised car allowance, healthcare, taxable expenses and the award of free shares under the all-employee SIP to Tim Jones as set out on page 77. b.
Based on the value of supplements paid in lieu of contributions to the Company Scheme.
c. The estimated 2013 PRSP values reported in last years report have been updated to reflect the actual share price on the date of vesting 324.5p d. The base salary for Phil Urban is 510,000 and for Tim Jones 426,500.
The figures set out are the actual salaries received over the financial year, which has 364 days.
e. Alistair Darby left the employment of the group on 26 September 2015.
As disclosed in last years report, his loss of office payment relates to 12 months payment in lieu of notice which was paid monthly and a 2,000 contribution towards legal fees.
f. Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors include cash payments made or accounted for by the Company relating to the reimbursement of expenses and the value of personal tax on those expenses.
g. Douglas McMahon stepped down from the Board on 13 November 2015. h. Josh Levy joined the Board on 13 November 2015. i. Dave Coplin joined the Board on 29 February 2016. j. Keith Browne joined the Board on 22 September 2016.
Annual performance bonus and STDIP The annual bonus and STDIP operate as set out in the policy section of this report.
Details of the measures and targets applying to the 2016 plan are set out below: Threshold 98% of Target Target Maximum 103% of Target Performance measures % of salary payable % of salary payable % of salary payable Operating Profit 75% 328m 335m 346m 0% 30% 75% Guest Service: NPS average % 65.5 66 67 score over the year 25% 6.25% 12.5% 25% Straight-line vesting between points 74 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 In determining the Operating Profit target range the Committee took into consideration a range of factors, such as the general economic and market outlook, future cost headwinds and internal plans.
The threshold level of Operating Profit was set in line with the 2015 out-turn and target was set broadly in line with market consensus, with an award over target 30% and towards maximum, requiring significant outperformance over and above the Companys business plan.
In setting NPS targets the Committee reflected on the progress made in the prior year and considered what level of further improvement would be required.
The Group delivered Operating Profit of 318m and this fell short of the target set by the Committee.
The Operating Profit outcome reflected disappointing trading in the first half of the year with sales declining by 1.6% in that period and by 0.7% over the whole year, following a stronger performance in the second half of the year.
Operating Profit was also impacted by wage inflation, primarily driven by the introduction of the NLW in April 2016 and higher levels of investment resulting in an increase in business closures for development or refurbishment.
The benefits of this investment should be felt in future years.
Therefore, the Committee decided that additional guest metrics would be reviewed alongside the NPS score to ensure that any final assessment of guest service improvement was robust.
The Guest Service measure was also subject to Operating Profit achieving a threshold level of performance.
Under the old survey basis, the NPS score achieved was 67.1%, which would, potentially, have triggered the maximum pay-out under this element.
However, as described above, the Committee would still have taken into account other metrics such as guest complaint resolution and data from TripAdvisor.
In the view of the Committee this would have led to a probable reduction in the percentage due under this element.
However, as the threshold level of Operating Profit had not been achieved, no award under this bonus element was made.
As a result no bonus awards have been made to Executive Directors in FY 2016.
Long-term incentives vesting during the year During FY 2014 awards were made to Tim Jones and the former CEO, Alistair Darby, under the terms of the PRSP to the value of 200% and 140% of their respective base salaries.
The performance condition has two independent elements, compound annual adjusted EPS growth and TSR performance against a group of peer companies, measured over a three-year performance period ending 24 September 2016.
The table below summarises performance against each element of the performance condition.
2014-2016 PRSP performance conditions Target Actual % vesting Total Shareholder Return relative to peer group Median median x 1.35 Below median Nil Compound annual adjusted EPS growth 8%-16% CAGR 2.7%p.
a. Nil Enterprise Inns, Punch Taverns, Fuller Smith & Turner, Greene King, Marstons, Whitbread, J D Wetherspoon, Spirit Pub Company and The Restaurant Group.
As TSR performance fell below the median performance of the comparator group and EPS fell below the threshold level of performance required, the 2014 plan will lapse.
Update on forecast performance of other PRSP awards 2015-2017 PRSP Based on current earnings forecasts and TSR performance to the end of FY 2016, the Committee does not anticipate that there will be any vesting at the end of the 2017 financial year.
2016-2018 PRSP With two performance years remaining, the position could change but specifically in relation to the EPS measure, the significant additional cost challenges and a more detailed assessment of the timing and impact of investment, result in a forecast level of vesting below the threshold level.
Long-term incentive awards made in FY 2016 An award was made in accordance with the rules of the PRSP and as set out in the policy section of this report.
The independent elements of the performance measure for the award made in June 2016, each of which accounts for 50% of the award, are summarised below: Threshold vesting target Maximum vesting target 1.
Compound annual adjusted Earnings 25% will vest if the compound annual EPS 100% will vest if compound annual EPS growth Per Share EPS growth measured growth is 4%.
before separately disclosed items and other adjustments.
Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to 25% will vest for TSR performance equivalent 100% will vest for TSR performance equivalent a peer group of comparator companies.
to the median of the comparator group.
to the upper quartile of the comparator group.
Between threshold and maximum, vesting under each measure is on a straight-line basis.
Below threshold the award will lapse.
In last years report, we stated that the Committee agreed to remove the impact of the net pensions finance charge from the EPS calculation.
During the year, the Committee reconsidered this approach in light of investors calls for greater transparency and the importance of managing the pension scheme deficit.
The Committee has decided that, on balance, it will revert to using the reported Adjusted EPS figure for this award and those previously granted.
The Committee does not believe that this change will make the EPS performance target more or less stretching than before.
The change has been made to improve the transparency and reporting of long-term incentive plan outcomes.
Comprises the constituents of the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure group as at the date of grant.
The base point for the calculation of TSR is the first three months of the financial year from 27 September 2015 to 31 December 2015 to align with the appointment of Phil Urban as CEO.
75 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Long-term incentive awards made in FY 2016 continued The EPS and TSR conditions are measured over three years from the start of the financial year in which they are granted, i. e. the three financial years from 27 September 2015, ending in September 2018.
The granting of this award was delayed from November 2015 to enable the Committee to review the scheme design and targets in the context of the business review initiated by Phil Urban following his appointment.
Prior to making the award major shareholders and leading investors were consulted on the performance conditions, and specifically in relation to the revised EPS growth range.
The Committee gave careful consideration to the feedback received during the consultation period.
The EPS target range has a threshold level of performance set at 4% growth p. a. and maximum set at 8% growth p. a.
The Committee believed that this target range was demanding in the context of the earnings forecast at the time of the award, given the significant cost challenges the business faced.
These included, but were not limited to, the introduction of the National Living Wage in April 2016.
The TSR element of the award is also subject to a share price underpin and awards may only be exercised where the Mitchells & Butlers share price has equalled or exceeded the share price at the date of award within six months of the vesting date.
If this condition is not met, then the vested TSR element of the option will lapse.
Performance measurement under the PRSP, which is not re-tested, is reviewed and certified by the Companys auditor.
In normal circumstances the share price used to determine the number of options to be awarded is based on the share price on the business day prior to the award being made.
This award was made on 29 June 2016, and therefore the prior business day was 28 June, which was the Tuesday following the UK referendum result, and saw a significant fall in share prices across the FTSE 250.
The Committee considered the impact of this fall in share price in the context of the number of shares to be granted and concluded that it would not be appropriate to base the award on the 28 June share price of 235.4p.
The Committee considered a number of options, including reducing the size of the award, and concluded that the most appropriate course of action was to base the award on the share price at the time the investor consultation ended in mid-June this being 267.7p.
Therefore, executives did not directly benefit from the referendum-related fall in the share price.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the PRSP are set out below.
Market Options Basis price per awarded of award share used to Actual during the % of Basic determine the planned Latest Face year to Annual Award award vesting lapse value 24 09 16 Salary date p date date Executive Directors Phil Urban 381,022 200 29 06 16 267.7 Nov 18 Nov 20 912,548 Tim Jones 223,048 140 29 06 16 267.7 Nov 18 Nov 20 534,200 Total 604,070 1,446,748 The share price on the actual grant date was 239.5p, which was impacted by the result of the UK referendum.
The Committee decided that the number of shares awarded should be made by reference to a higher price of 267.7p, being the share price at the time the consultation with investors concluded.
A higher price has resulted in fewer awards being granted to executives.
Face value is the maximum number of shares that would vest excluding any dividend shares that may accrue if the performance measure as described above is met in full, multiplied by the middle market quotation of a Mitchells & Butlers share on the day the award was made 239.5p.
The aggregate option price of each award is 1.
76 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 All-employee SIP and Sharesave The table below shows the award made to a Director under the free share element of the SIP award made during the year.
No awards were made to Directors under the Sharesave plan during 2016.
SIP Shares awarded Market price during Market price per share the year per share Normal at normal Lapsed 27 09 15 to Award at award vesting vesting date during 24 09 16 date p date p period Director Tim Jones 1,162 22 06 16 281.9 22 06 19 Total 1,162 Directors entitlements under the Partnership Share element of the SIP are set out as part of the Directors interests table on page 78.
PRSP, STDIP and other share awards The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors outstanding awards under the PRSP, STDIP and Sharesave SAYE.
50% of the PRSP award is subject to a TSR condition and the other 50% is subject to adjusted EPS growth targets.
During the year, the Committee decided that the reported Adjusted EPS should be used i. e. after the deduction of IAS 19 and related changes in reporting.
As reported on page 75, it is anticipated that there is unlikely to be any EPS vesting, notwithstanding the Committees change in treatment of IAS 19 charges.
Shares awarded to Phil Urban on joining the Company as Chief Operating Officer in January 2015. c. Alistair Darby left the Board and employment on 26 September 2015.
As reported in last years report the PRSP awards he held will be pro-rated for service and will vest subject to performance.
His 2014-2016 award lapsed and he retains an interest in the 2015-2017 PRSP cycle.
77 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Directors interests Executive Directors are expected to hold Mitchells & Butlers shares in line with the shareholding guidelines set out in the Remuneration Policy report.
Based on the valuation methodology as set out in the shareholding policy, Phil Urbans shareholding was 15.5% of his basic annual salary and Tim Joness shareholding was 45.2% of his basic annual salary.
The shareholding policy requires that Executive Directors accumulate Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 100% of salary within five years of appointment to the Board 150% for the CEO.
Tim Jones completed five years as an Executive Director on 18 October 2015.
The Committee continues to pay close attention to Mr Joness shareholding and will take into account the number of shares Mr Jones has purchased, the impact of incentive plan vesting and his ongoing commitment to meet this requirement over time.
Includes Free Shares and Partnership Shares granted under the SIP.
Options granted under the Sharesave as detailed in the table on page 77 and deferred bonus awards granted under the STDIP.
c. Options granted under the PRSP as detailed in the table on page 76. d. As at 13 November 2015, the date on which Mr McMahon stepped down from the Board.
32,185 share options were exercised by Tim Jones during the year, of these 15,181 were sold to settle tax due on the 2013-15 PRSP which vested in November 2015.
Directors shareholdings shares without performance conditions include shares held by connected persons.
The above shareholdings are beneficial interests and are inclusive of Directors holdings under the Share Incentive Plan both Free Share and Partnership Share elements.
Tim Jones acquired 148 shares under the Partnership Share element of the Share Incentive Plan between the end of the financial year and 21 November 2016.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary or in debenture stocks of the Company or any subsidiary.
The market price per share on 24 September 2016 was 270.4p and the range during the year to 24 September 2016 was 217.5p to 364.4p per share.
The Executive Directors as a group beneficially own 0.04% of the Companys shares.
Payment for loss of office Alistair Darby stepped down as Chief Executive and resigned from the Company on 26 September 2015.
His payments for loss of office were fully disclosed in last years report and the payment in lieu of notice is disclosed in the single figure of total remuneration table.
78 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 TSR performance graph The Companys TSR performance for the last seven financial years is shown below against the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure index.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen to show TSR performance as the Company is a member of the FTSE 250.
The FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure index is shown as this is the TSR comparator group in the long-term incentive plan.
Total shareholder return from September 2009 to September 2016 re-based to 100 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mitchells & Butlers plc FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters CEO earnings history Year ended 25 09 10 24 09 11 29 09 12 28 09 13 27 09 14 26 09 15 24 09 16 Phil Urban Single figure remuneration 000 613 Annual bonus outcome % of max LTIP vesting outcome % of max Alistair Darby a Single figure remuneration 000 982 642 878 Annual bonus outcome % of max 71.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a 19.0 Bob Ivell b Single figure remuneration 000 557 69 c c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a n a c c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a Jeremy Blood Single figure remuneration 000 397 50 d c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a Adam Fowle e Single figure remuneration 000 1,315 483 Annual bonus outcome % of max 87.6 16.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max 16.2 24.2 a. Alistair Darby formally took up the position of CEO on 12 November 2012 following a short period of induction and handover.
The figure shown reflects the date of his appointment to the Board 8 October 2012. b.
Figure shown is up to and including 11 November 2012 as Bob Ivell remained Executive Chairman to this date.
c. The Director was not a participant in the plan.
d. Jeremy Blood was not a participant in the short-term incentive plan: at the discretion of the Board a payment of 100,000 was made in respect of his contribution as Interim Chief Executive.
This payment is included in the single remuneration figure 397,000 above.
Earnings exclude the fee payable for the period 26 September 2010 to 14 March 2011 during which Mr Blood served as a Non-Executive Director.
e. Earnings disclosed are to 15 March 2011 when Mr Fowle stepped down as CEO.
79 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on Directors remuneration continued Change in remuneration of the CEO Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 2016 2015 % Change 2016 2015 % Change 2016 2015 % Change CEO 508,603 539,925 5.8 15,098 14,810 1.9 Salaried employees 31,763 31,380 1.2 725 759 4.5 2,525 1,671 51.1 The change in CEO remuneration is compared to the change in average remuneration of all full time salaried employees, which includes house managers, assistant managers and kitchen managers employed in our businesses.
Salaried employees with part-year service in either FY 2015 or FY 2016 have been excluded from the comparison figures.
Retail staff employees have been excluded from the comparator group as they are hourly paid, largely part time and do not participate in any bonus plans.
The CEO figures do not include LTIP awards or pension benefits that are disclosed in the single figure table.
CEO pay ratios In line with emerging best practice the Committee has decided to include the pay ratio between the CEO, and the median pay of other employees.
Based on the CEO single figure set out on page 74 the ratio of pay to the median of all other employees is 1:44.
Employee pay includes base salary, incentive payments, employers pension contributions and benefits.
Employees with part-year service have been excluded from the comparison figures.
In assessing our pay ratio versus likely ratios from industry peers, we believe that we are towards the lower end of the range but note that annual and long-term incentive payments have varied considerably amongst this group.
In our example, the CEO single figure comprises fixed pay only given that no bonus was awarded and no long-term incentive was capable of vesting in respect of performance in FY 2016.
We also recognise that ratios will be influenced by levels of employee pay and in the hospitality sector, despite significant increases over the past year, employee pay will be lower than in other sectors of the economy.
We have provided this additional disclosure but look forward to greater debate and clarification over the method of calculation and how this additional information will inform discussion on executive remuneration.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 5.3% 600 500 400 300 577 548 1.1% 4.0% 200 -43.0% 190 188 100 155 149 49 86 0 0 0 Wages and salaries Principal taxes Pension deficit Debt service Dividend and contributions Share Buy Back FY 2016 FY 2015 From note 2.3, Accounts, excludes share-based payments.
Business Rates, Corporation Tax, Employers NI.
Figures shown for wages and salaries consist of all earnings, including bonus.
In FY 2016, 2.1m 0.36% was paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors 2015 1.58m 0.29%.
The increase in wages and salaries is primarily a result of NMW and NLW.
In FY 2015 the Company made an additional one-off pension deficit contribution in accordance with the agreement made with the Trustee.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in FY 2017 Executive Directors salary review No salary increase will apply for any Executive Director.
Phil Urbans salary will remain at 510,000 and Tim Jones at 426,500.
Salaries will next be reviewed as part of the upcoming Remuneration Policy review.
Annual performance bonus The Committee has reviewed the performance measures and the bonus for 2017 will continue to be based 75% on Financial Performance and 25% on Guest Service.
80 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Operating Profit The threshold at which a bonus will begin to accrue will be set at 95% of target, slightly lower than in 2016, reflecting the demanding nature of the target set by the Committee.
The amounts payable at threshold, target and maximum remain unchanged from 2016.
The Committee felt that a slightly wider performance range was appropriate given the ongoing economic uncertainty and continuing cost pressures, including the additional costs associated with the accelerated investment in our estate, which increases the number of closure weeks due to site redevelopment.
Whilst these closures have a short-term impact, in the medium term good returns are anticipated.
There is also an expectation that operational and tactical activity aligned to the strategic objectives will begin to impact positively on sales, and there may be some benefits as we see higher wages from the introduction of the NLW flowing through to the wider economy.
In setting the range from threshold to maximum, the Committee took into consideration the Companys latest business plan and market consensus.
Guest Service NPS will continue to be the lead measure of Guest Service.
The targets are now based on the new survey, which the Committee believes has a more robust method of collecting data and therefore result validity.
Guests are being invited to provide feedback in different ways, either directly by a member of the team or by email or text invitation following their visit.
Again, the Guest Service element will only be payable if the threshold level of financial performance is achieved.
For 2017 this will be set at 95% of target in line with the threshold level set for Operating Profit.
The Committee has also agreed that prior to any bonus being approved in relation to Guest Service, progress against other guest metrics will be considered, such as TripAdvisor reviews and the speed at which guest complaints are addressed.
This rounded assessment will ensure that guest service improvements are assessed comprehensively and not solely based on a single metric.
More broadly, the Committee is committed to ensuring that any bonus or incentive payment is consistent and representative of the overall performance of the Company.
Operating Profit and NPS targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance.
However, retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Directors remuneration report.
Long Term Incentive Plans A PRSP award is due to be made in respect of the 2017 to 2019 performance period.
The Committee has reviewed the performance condition and targets and concluded that the performance measures should remain unchanged from the June 2016 award, with two equal elements, growth in adjusted EPS and relative TSR.
In setting the EPS target range the Committee has considered the impact on earnings resulting from the ongoing work to reposition the estate, and the ongoing impact of the NLW.
In addition, the past six months has seen further cost headwinds emerge, for example the impact of weaker sterling on input costs, the Apprenticeship Levy and increases to utility, rent and business rates.
In light of this, the Committee believes the EPS range remains very challenging in the circumstances.
The table below summarises the performance condition for FY 2017-2019: Performance measures each accounting for 50% of the award Threshold vesting target Maximum vesting target 1.
Compound annual adjusted Earnings Per Share 25% will vest if the compound annual EPS growth is 100% will vest if compound annual EPS growth is at least EPS growth measured before separately 4% per annum.
disclosed items and other adjustments.
Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer 25% will vest for TSR performance equivalent to the 100% will vest for TSR performance equivalent to the group of comparator companies comprising the median of the comparator group.
upper quartile of the comparator group.
FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure group.
The TSR element of the award is also subject to a share price underpin and may only be exercised where the Mitchells & Butlers share price has equalled or exceeded the share price at the date of award within six months of the vesting date.
As disclosed in last years report, from 2014 the Committee agreed to remove the impact of the net pensions finance charge from base and end-year EPS as some of the factors that impact on the calculation of the charge, such as the bond-market derived discount rate, are outside the control of management.
A further review of practice has been completed and acknowledging that the use of reported figures provides greater transparency and the ongoing importance of managing the pension deficit, the Committee has decided that it will revert to using the reported Adjusted EPS for all current and future awards.
As disclosed earlier, this technical change is unlikely to change the vesting outcome of awards which have been granted.
The Committee will continue to undertake a rigorous examination of the quality of the performance achieved and identify any factors that are unusual or may have a material influence on the outcome of an award but did not represent underlying performance, including the impact of the net pensions finance charge.
Non-Executive Directors fee review The fee applicable to the Chairman will remain at 285,000.
Non-Executive Directors fees also will remain unchanged.
Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 November 2016 81 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Financial statements In this section 83 Independent auditors report to the 112 Section 4 Capital structure and members of Mitchells & Butlers plc financing costs 90 Group income statement 112 4.1 Net debt 91 Group statement of comprehensive income 113 4.2 Borrowings 92 Group balance sheet 115 4.3 Finance costs and revenue 93 Group statement of changes in equity 115 4.4 Financial instruments 94 Group cash flow statement 121 4.5 Pensions 124 4.6 Share-based payments Notes to the financial statements 125 4.7 Equity 95 Section 1 Basis of preparation 128 Section 5 Other notes 98 Section 2 Results for the year 128 5.1 Related party transactions 98 2.1 Segmental analysis 128 5.2 Subsidiaries 99 2.2 Separately disclosed items 129 5.3 Five year review 99 2.3 Operating costs 101 2.4 Taxation 130 Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 104 2.5 Earnings per share 132 Notes to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 105 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 105 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 108 3.2 Working capital 109 3.3 Provisions 110 3.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets 82 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
