S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committees key responsibility is to determine and apply the Remuneration Policy to ensure it promotes the delivery of our strategy and the long-term success of theGroup.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This was a year of significant activity for the Committee.
We undertook a comprehensive review of the executive remuneration framework to ensure it continues to align with the strategy of the business and best practice.
As a result, we will be seeking shareholder approval for a new Remuneration Policy as well as the renewed LTIP and a new deferred bonus plan at the 2017 AGM.
We consulted widely with our shareholders on the proposed changes and took account of the feedback we received in refining the proposals.
The Committee also supported the Chief Executive Officer succession and transition process by determining the remuneration arrangements for Peter Plumb and Mark Lewis, within the context of our policy framework.
Finally, the Committee determined the incentive outcomes in respect of 2016, and set the parameters of the packages for 2017.
This letter provides key highlights of each of those key areas Andrew Fisher of activity.
The Remuneration Policy is then set out on pages Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 60 to 64.
Pages 65 to 73 constitutes the Annual Remuneration Report, summarising the 2016 outcomes and how we intend to operate the Policy in 2017.
Remuneration Policy 2017 - highlights of the Committees review As indicated in my letter in last years report, the Committee has, during the year, conducted a comprehensive review of the overall remuneration framework.
In the time since the In 2016, we: Committee previously conducted a widespread review, the business has seen significant changes in financial size, scope u undertook a comprehensive review of operations and strategic direction.
We also continue to see of the executive remuneration framework: unprecedented levels of competition in digital talent markets.
u consulted with shareholders on the The existing framework has supported the delivery of proposed changes to the sustained earnings growth over 17% annualised adjusted Remuneration Policy: and earnings per share growth from 2011 to 2016 which has u determined remuneration translated into exceptional returns for shareholders total arrangements for the Chief shareholder value of over 1bn created since 2011.
Consequently, the Committee did not consider that significant changes are required to the framework.
However, it was appropriate to conduct a review, principally in order to ensure continued alignment of our remuneration framework with the Groups strategy and to reflect changes in investor best practice.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Following the review, the key proposed changes to the Chief Executive Officer Succession Remuneration Policy effective from 2017 are as follows: introduction of bonus deferral to align the interests of our Mark Lewis Executive Directors with shareholders, any bonus earned above As explained on page 2, Mark will join the Group as an Executive target will be deferred into Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Director on 13 March 2017 and take up his role as Chief Executive shares for an additional two year period: Officer on 10 April 2017.
During the search and appointment introduction of an LTIP holding period in line with best practice, process we continued to see unprecedented levels of competition any shares which vest based on performance over the initial for talent in the digital space.
We offered a package which was three-year period will then be subject to an additional two-year required in order to secure a candidate of this calibre in the context holding period: of the highly competitive talent markets we are currently operating increase to shareholding guidelines again reflecting emerging best in.
We were robust in our negotiations and offered no more than we practice, the level of shareholding which the Executive Directors will believed was necessary in the circumstances.
Consequently, the be expected to build up will be increased from 100% to 200% of Committee determined that Mark would be appointed on a salary of base salary: 530,000, a maximum annual bonus of 150% of salary and an improve strategic alignment of performance measures following annual LTIP award of 175% of salary, reflecting the new fidean extensive review, the Committee concluded that the overall leveraged framework.
The Committee anticipates that the normal incentive framework was well aligned to the strategy and KPIs.
In policy will apply to base salary increases that they will ordinarily be particular, adjusted operating profit and revenue in the bonus and in line with the broader employee population in future years.
adjusted EPS in the LTIP represent the most appropriate measures of our performance.
However, to improve the link between our For 2017 only, Mark will receive an additional one-off 25% of base strategy KPIs and our incentive targets, we will introduce a salary LTIP award to take account of compensation relinquished customer centric measure into the annual bonus for 2017. from his previous employer.
This award will have the same structure aligning key terms of new service agreements to best practice and performance conditions as the normal annual LTIP award.
His introduction of a requirement for new service agreements including aggregate LTIP award in 2017 will therefore be 200% of salary.
From that of Mark Lewis that payments in lieu of notice are phased and 2018, his LTIP award will revert back to 175% of salary.
subject to mitigation: fide-leveraging the package finally, the Committee reviewed the Peter Plumb balance of the package in light of the business strategy, risk impact, Peter Plumb will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the and market data.
The Committee concluded that we should remain 2017 AGM.
For his period in office during 2017, Peter will remain on committed to the principle of delivering a market competitive the current package and will not be transitioned onto the new package which is substantially performance-related and framework.
As a result, he will remain on his current annual salary of appropriately balanced to ensure we are able to attract and retain 469,000.
He will be eligible for a maximum bonus opportunity of the very best leadership on behalf of our shareholders.
In this 185% of salary, pro-rated for his period of office.
His bonus will be context, the Committee determined that the current package did paid in cash at the normal time in early 2018, subject to the not have an appropriate balance salaries were too low and achievement of the performance targets.
He will not receive a 2017 incentive opportunities too high against the Committees market LTIP award.
To address this, the Committee has decided to fide-leverage the packages by significantly reducing incentive Details of his termination package will be posted on the Companys opportunities, and a one-off re-positioning of base salaries from website upon him stepping down and will also be included in the 2017 onwards.
Salaries and incentive opportunities for 2017 are set 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
The package will be in line out on pages 65 and 66 of the Annual Remuneration Report.
The with the Remuneration Policy and he will receive good leaver status net effect of these changes is a re-balancing of the mix of the for his unvested 2015 and 2016 LTIPs which will be reduced package, whilst keeping total compensation broadly unchanged at pro-rata and be measured against the existing targets on the both target and maximum levels.
While the base salary increases normal timescale.
are higher than the Committees normal annual policy that increases will ordinarily be in line with the broader employee population, it should be noted that these are one-off salary adjustments to re-balance the package, in the context of the significant reduction in incentive opportunities.
The Committee anticipates that the normal policy on salary increases will apply in future years.
58 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Finally, we will be seeking approval at the AGM to continue to Pay for performance in 2016 operate our Share Incentive Plan, which is an HMRC approved During 2016, the variable elements of executive remuneration were scheme allowing employees to buy Moneysupermarket.
com Group focused on simple and transparent measures of revenue growth, PLC shares on the market using deductions from their gross salary, adjusted operating profit growth, adjusted earnings per share EPS which was put in place on flotation and is due to expire in 2017. growth, total shareholder return and key strategic objectives.
The awards were based on challenging targets, as disclosed on pages 68 We remain committed to an open and ongoing dialogue with our to 69. shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
During the year, I undertook an extensive consultation with our shareholders 2016 has been another strong year for the Group with revenue and investor bodies in respect of the proposals above.
Overall, increasing by 12% to 316.4m and adjusted operating profit investors were supportive of the approach we had taken and the increasing by 8% to 107.8m.
Our executive team has continued proposals being made.
I would like to thank those consulted for to focus on the execution of our growth strategies, performing well their engagement in the process and can confirm that the feedback against their stretching individual performance targets aligned to we received during the process was taken into account by the some of the key achievements referred to in the strategic review Committee in refining and finalizing the proposals.
As a result, the Committee determined that they would receive a bonus for their performance of between 109% With the changes proposed, the Committee believes we have the and 134% of their basic salary which represents between 66% right remuneration framework in place to support continued and 72% of the maximum.
delivery of our strategy, financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
We look forward to receiving your continued Our 2014 LTIP award, which was based on a combination of support at the forthcoming AGM.
compound annual growth in adjusted EBITDA and comparative total shareholder return, will vest at 120.9% 81% of the maximum in April 2017, reflecting the achievements of the executives over the Andrew Fisher three years since the award was made.
Our growth in total Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shareholder return of 71% was above upper quartile against the 27 February 2017 FTSE 250 comparator group and we achieved 12.8% compound annual growth in adjusted EBITDA over the performance period.
Shareholder resolutions at the 2017 AGM At our forthcoming AGM, there will be a number of remunerationrelated resolutions.
We will seek approval under a binding vote for our new Remuneration Policy, which is necessary to implement the changes arising from the review as described above.
The new Policy will be effective following the AGM, and we would anticipate it remaining in place for the next three years in line with the normal cycle set out in the regulations.
We will also seek an advisory vote on the Annual Remuneration Report section.
Our current LTIP is due to expire in 2017 and therefore we will also be seeking shareholder approval for a new LTIP at the 2017 AGM.
This will essentially be a renewal of the existing LTIP i. e. broadly maintaining the existing award structure but updating to reflect the new features discussed above and other best practice regulatory changes.
We will also be seeking approval for a deferred bonus plan DBP to facilitate the granting of deferred bonus awards.
The terms of the LTIP and DBP are summarised in the Remuneration Policy and in more detail in the AGM circular and are in line with best practice in key areas.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Set out below is the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, which will be put to a binding shareholder vote and become formally effective at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Changes from the previous Policy The main changes to this Remuneration Policy, from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, and as described in the Chairmans introductory statement, are as follows: reduction in the annual bonus opportunity and LTIP award levels: introduction of bonus deferral, and incorporation of the terms of the 2017 Deferred Bonus Plan: incorporation of the terms of the new 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan including a post vesting holding period: increase to the minimum shareholding requirement from 100% to 200% of base salary: and changes to the terms of new service agreements to include a discretion to make payments in lieu of notice of base salary and contractual benefits on a phased basis subject to mitigation.
Remuneration Policy Table The table below summarises the Remuneration Policy for 2017 onwards: Base salary Purpose and link to To provide competitive fixed remuneration to attract and retain Executive Directors of the calibre required to strategy deliver the business strategy for shareholders.
Operation The base salary for Executive Directors may be reviewed annually by the Committee.
Individual salary adjustments may take into account each Executive Directors performance and experience in role, changes in role or responsibility, the Groups financial performance, as well external market data.
Maximum There is no prescribed maximum base salary.
Salary increases are ordinarily in line with the broader employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role and developments in the wider competitive market.
Current base salary levels are set out on pages 65 and 66.
Performance targets No specific targets although the Committee will take into account individual performance when considering salary increases.
Pension Purpose and link to To provide a market competitive retirement benefit to attract and retain Executive Directors of the calibre required strategy to deliver the business strategy for shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors may participate in the Companys defined contribution pension scheme and or receive salary supplements, or such other allowance as the Committee considers appropriate.
Benefits Purpose and link to To provide market competitive benefits.
strategy Operation Current benefit provision is a car allowance and life insurance.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate including, amongst other things, health insurance, relocation and travel expenses, and reimbursed business expenses including any associated tax liability incurred when travelling in performance of duties.
Maximum There is no prescribed maximum monetary value for benefit provision.
Benefits are set at a level which the Committee determines is reasonable and appropriate and the value may vary depending on the benefit provided and the market cost of the benefit given the individuals personal circumstances.
Annual bonus Purpose and link to Incentivises the delivery of stretching financial, operational and strategic annual performance targets.
com Group PLC shares increases long-term alignment with shareholders.
Operation The annual bonus is based on performance against stretching targets set at the start of the year by the Committee, and assessed following the end of the year.
A proportion of the annual bonus currently any amount earned in excess of target bonus will normally be deferred into an award of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC shares under the terms of the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
DBP awards will normally vest at least two years after grant.
The remainder will be paid in cash following the year end.
Clawback provisions apply for a period of two years following the payment of a cash bonus and the grant of any DBP award.
60 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Annual bonus Maximum The Committee intends that annual bonus opportunities in respect of a financial year will be: CEO: target of 100% of base salary and maximum of 150% of base salary.
CFO: target of 90% of base salary and maximum of 135% of base salary.
Where considered appropriate in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may determine that the maximum annual bonus opportunity in respect of a particular financial year is up to 200% of base salary.
Performance targets Payment is determined by reference to performance assessed over one financial year based on financial and strategic performance measures which the Committee considers to be aligned to the strategy and the creation of shareholder value.
Such measures may include: Adjusted operating profit or other measure of profitability.
Non-financial measures aligned to the strategy or KPIs.
The performance measures and weightings for the 2017 financial year are shown on page 65.
The Committee determines the weightings of the performance measures each year.
The overall framework will normally be weighted towards financial measures of performance.
Targets are set each year by the Committee by reference to factors such as the budget and strategic objectives for the year, progress against the prior year and market expectations.
The Committee retains discretion to use different or additional measures, weightings or payout schedules to ensure that the bonus framework appropriately supports the business strategy and objectives for the relevant year.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust targets for any exceptional events that may occur during the year.
The Committee will consider the Groups overall performance before determining final bonus payment levels.
Long-term Incentive Plan Purpose and link to Designed to align with both the strategic objectives of delivering sustainable earnings growth and the interests of strategy shareholders.
Operation Awards are made under the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan, subject to approval at the 2017 AGM.
com Group PLC shares which vest subject to performance measured over a period of at least three years.
Vested awards may then be subject to an additional holding period, which unless the Committee determines otherwise will apply up to the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
Clawback provisions apply for a period of five years from the date of grant.
Maximum The Committee intends that maximum award levels in respect of a financial year will be: CEO: 175% of base salary.
Where considered appropriate, the Committee may make an LTIP award in respect of a particular financial year of up to 200% of base salary, in line with the rules of the plan.
Performance targets Vesting is determined by reference to performance assessed over a period of at least three years, based on performance measures which the Committee consider to be aligned with the delivery of strategy and long-term shareholder value.
For awards to be made in 2017, the measures are: Adjusted earnings per share EPS 80%.
Comparative total shareholder return TSR 20%.
The Committee has discretion to use different or additional quantifiable performance measures or weightings for awards in future years to ensure that the LTIP remains appropriately aligned to the business strategy and objectives.
Any performance conditions may be amended if an event occurs during the performance period which causes the Committee to consider an amended performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The Committee will consider the Groups underlying financial performance over the performance period before determining the final vesting level.
The threshold level of vesting will be no higher than 20% of the maximum award.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued All employee share plans Purpose and link to To encourage wider employee share ownership and thereby increase alignment with shareholders.
strategy Operation Executive Directors are eligible to participate in all employee share plans, which are offered on similar terms to all employees, such as HMRC-approved Sharesave plans and Share Incentive Plans.
Maximum The limits for any HMRC-approved plans are as defined by HMRC from time to time.
Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to To increase long term alignment between executives and shareholders.
strategy Operation Executive Directors are required to build up and maintain a substantial holding of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC shares of 200% of basesalary.
To achieve this, Executive Directors must retain 50% of the net of tax vested LTIP shares until the guideline is met.
Unvested deferred bonus shares and vested shares subject to a holding period under the LTIP will count towards the guideline on a net of taxbasis.
Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to To provide market competitive fees which reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of each role.
strategy Operation The fees for the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman are determined by the Board and comprise a base fee with additional fees payable for additional responsibilities.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by the Committee and are structured as a single fee.
Fees may be reviewed on an annual basis.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any Company pension arrangements, nor do they currently receive any benefits.
Non-Executive Directors may be reimbursed for business expenses and any associated tax liabilities incurred when travelling in performance of duties.
Maximum There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
The Board is guided by the general increase in the nonexecutive director market and for the broader employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role.
Current fee levels are set out on page 66 and will not exceed the aggregate maximum levels set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in variable pay arrangements.
Notes 1 Differences from remuneration policy for other employees.
The remuneration policy framework for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles as described above.
All executives and senior managers are generally eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan, based on consistent performance measures and targets.
Participation in the LTIP, or in other share-based plans, is extended to executives and certain senior managers, with LTIP performance conditions generally consistent across all levels.
Individual salary levels and percentage levels of awards in the annual bonus and LTIP vary according to employees level of responsibility.
All UK-based employees are eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC approved Sharesave plan on similar terms.
2 Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this Report may: a be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect: b incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vest up to the time of vesting or where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: c be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and d be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
3 The choice of the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus reflects the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and aligned to the Groups financial and strategic objectives, and the creation of shareholder value.
The adjusted earnings per share and comparative total shareholder return performance conditions applicable to the LTIP were selected by the Committee on the basis that they reward the delivery of long-term growth and returns to shareholders and the creation of shareholder value.
4 Clawback provisions exist on all variable components of the package.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the vesting of a DBP or LTIP award prior to vesting and or require the participant to return the value of the cash bonus, DBP or LTIP award which has been received within the timescales shown in the table in certain circumstances.
These circumstances include: a material misstatement of financial results: an error in the assessment of a performance condition: a significant breach of regulatory obligations or gross misconduct justifying summary dismissal.
5 The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 30 April 2015 the date the Companys previous directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
6 The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval.
62 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The chart below illustrates how the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance under the annual remuneration framework in the 2017 Policy, both as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value.
LTIP 2500 2,373K Annual bonus Base salary, benets and pension 2000 39% 1,472K 1500 1,366K 14% 37% 34% 1000 878K 39% 12% 650K 33% 37% 446K 500 100% 47% 27% 100% 51% 30% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer Mark Lewis Matthew Price Notes 1 Minimum includes the value of fixed pay components annual base salary effective in 2017, pension 20% of base salary, and benefits based on 2016 actual.
2 Target includes fixed pay and target annual bonus CEO: 100% of salary, CFO 90% of salary and threshold vesting of the maximum LTIP awards.
3 Maximum includes fixed pay and maximum annual bonus CEO: 150% of salary, CFO 135% of salary and LTIP awards CEO: 175% of salary, CFO: 150% of salary.
4 In accordance with the regulations, no share price appreciation or depreciation has been assumed in calculating the values shown.
5 The buyout award for Mark Lewis is not included in the above Service agreements for Executive Directors The service agreements of the Executive Directors are not fixed term and are terminable by either the Company or the Director on twelve months notice and make provision, at the Boards discretion, for early termination by way of payment of salary, benefits and pension in lieu of twelve months notice.
For service agreements entered into after 1 October 2016, the Committee has discretion to make such payments on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
Approach to leavers In calculating the amount payable to a Director on termination of employment, the Board would consider the circumstances on a case-bycase basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination, any applicable duty to mitigate and the commercial interests of the Company.
Incidental expenses may also be payable where appropriate.
Annual bonus may be payable with respect to performance in the financial year of cessation pro-rated for time, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The Committee retains discretion to deliver any such bonus solely in cash and to pay it at the normal date.
The treatment of any share awards held by an Executive Director under the Companys share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules: Share plan Summary of leaver provisions DBP Awards will continue to vest on the original vesting date, subject to the clawback provisions unless the individual is summarily dismissed in which case DBP awards will lapse.
LTIP The default treatment is that any unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain circumstances, such as death, ill health, injury, disability, the sale of the participants employing company out of the Group, or in any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status may be applied.
For good leavers, awards will vest on their normal vesting date, to the extent the Committee determines taking into account the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period served.
For LTIP awards which have vested but not yet been released, the vested awards will continue and be released on the original release date.
For both DBP and LTIP, the Committee retains discretion to vest release awards before the end of the original vesting performance period where appropriate e. g. in circumstances ofdeath.
On a change of control of the Company, awards under the DBP would vest.
Awards under the LTIP would normally vest, taking into account the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied at that time and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 63 Remuneration 000 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and for the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys Remuneration Policy Table above.
Salaries would be set at an appropriately competitive level to reflect the skills and experience of the individual.
Where an individual forfeits remuneration with a previous employer as a result of appointment to the Company, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards to facilitate recruitment.
Any such payments or awards would be in such form as the Committee considers appropriate to be in the best interests of the Company and would, where appropriate, reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
There is no limit on the value of such compensatory awards, but the Committees intention is that broadly the value awarded would be no higher than the value forfeited.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
Other appointments The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with prior Board approval, provided these opportunities do not negatively impact on the individuals ability to perform his duties at the Company.
Whether any related fees are retained by the individual or are remitted to the Company will be considered on a case by case basis.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are appointed under arrangements that may generally be terminated by either the Company or the Director on up to three months notice and their appointment is reviewed annually.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the Remuneration Policy Table.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee undertook an extensive consultation with major shareholders in respect of the changes to the Remuneration Policy and introduction of the renewed LTIP and DBP, and the feedback received was taken into account in finalising the proposals.
During each year, the Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the Annual General Meeting, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time.
The Committee also regularly reviews the policy in the context of published shareholder guidelines.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee does not formally consult employees in relation to the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
However, the Company regularly carries out engagement surveys which enable employees to share their views with management.
To the extent that employees are shareholders, they can vote on Directors remuneration at the Annual General Meeting.
64 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 December 2017 A summary of how the Directors Remuneration Policy will be applied during the year ending 31 December 2017 is set out below.
The packages for Mark Lewis and Matthew Price reflect the fide-leveraging principle from the Committees review discussed in more detail in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter.
That is, a substantial reduction in annual bonus and LTIP award levels and a repositioning of base salary levels to leave total compensation broadly unchanged and retain a significantly performance-related, but more appropriately balanced, overall package.
The remuneration arrangements for Peter Plumb are summarized in a separate section below.
Base salary The Remuneration Committee has determined that base salaries for the Executive Directors will increase as follows with effect from 1January 2017: 2017 2016 % increase Mark Lewis 530,000 N A N A Matthew Price 360,000 316,750 14% The Groups employees are, in general, receiving salary increases averaging approximately 3%.
Pension arrangements The Company will continue to provide pension contributions or salary supplements of 20% of base salary for Executive Directors.
Annual bonus For the year ending 31 December 2017, the target and maximum annual bonus opportunities will be significantly reduced as part of the fide-leveraging exercise, as shown in the following table: Target bonus Maximum bonus 2017 2016 % of salary 2017 2016 % of salary % of salary % of salary decrease % of salary % of salary decrease Mark Lewis 100% 135% -35% 150% 185% -35% Matthew Price 90% 110% -20% 135% 165% -30% The bonus opportunity for Mark Lewis will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the period of the year worked.
Awards will be determined based on a balanced combination of Group financial and operational performance and individual performance, directly aligned to our KPIs and strategic objectives, as shown below.
For 2017, a new measure net promoter score will be introduced to more closely align to the strategic objectives of customer centricity.
The weighting on personal measures has been reduced accordingly.
Metric Weighting % of Bonus Revenue growth 20% Adjusted operating profit 50% Net promoter score MoneySuperMarket.
com 15% Personal objectives 15% Maximum bonus will only be payable when performance has significantly exceeded expectations.
The Committee believes that the underlying targets are commercially sensitive and cannot be disclosed at this stage.
To the extent that they are no longer commercially sensitive, they will be disclosed in next years Report.
Any amount earned over the target bonus shown above will be deferred into Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC shares for a period of two years in line with the new Policy.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives For the year ending 31 December 2017, annual LTIP awards will be significantly reduced as part of the fide-leveraging exercise, as shown in the following table: 2017 2016 % of salary % of salary % decrease Mark Lewis 175% 200% -25% Matthew Price 150% 165% -15% The extent to which 2017 LTIP awards will vest will be dependent on two independent performance conditions as follows: Weighting Metric % of award Performance condition Threshold Maximum Vesting % of maximum 20% 100% Compound annual growth in 80% Compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 7% 17% adjusted earnings per share three-year performance period.
Comparative total shareholder 20% Comparative total shareholder return against the constituents of Median Upper return the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
Three-month quartile averaging is applied at the start and end of the performance period.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
Upon vesting, the 2017 LTIP awards will be subject to an additional holding period which expires on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
The 2017 LTIP awards will be granted under the renewed 2017 LTIP following, and subject to, shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
Long-term incentives - additional LTIP as buy-out award To facilitate his recruitment, Mark Lewis will be granted an additional one-off LTIP award in 2017 of 25% of base salary to take account of compensation relinquished from Mr Lewis previous employer as a result of commencing employment with the Company.
This award will have the same structure and performance conditions as the normal annual LTIP award referred to above.
The aggregate size of Mark Lewis LTIP award to be made in 2017 is therefore 200% of base salary.
This award is in line with the recruitment provision of the Remuneration Policy.
From 2018, his normal LTIP award will be 175% of base salary.
Peter Plumb For his period in office during 2017, Peter will remain on the current package and will not be transitioned onto the new framework.
As a result, he will remain on his current annual salary of 469,000.
He will be eligible for a maximum bonus opportunity of 185% of salary, pro-rated for his period of office.
His bonus will be paid in cash at the normal time in early 2018, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
He will not receive a 2017 LTIP award.
Peter Plumb will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Details of his termination package will be posted on the Companys website upon him stepping down and will also be included in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
The package will be in line with the Remuneration Policy and he will receive good leaver status for his unvested 2015 and 2016 LTIPs which will be reduced pro-rata and be measured against the existing targets on the normal timescale.
2 Pension Pension payments reflect defined contributions and or salary supplement arrangements.
The Company provided pension contributions for two Executive Directors during 2016.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 67 Directors Remuneration Report continued 3 Annual bonus payments Maximum bonus entitlements for the year ended 31 December 2016 as a percentage of base salary were 185% for Peter Plumb and 165% for Matthew Price for the achievement ofstretching targets for growth in revenue and adjusted operating profit as well as specific personal objectives.
The performance targets, weightings, and actual performance against thosetargets, are set out below: Performance targets Peter Plumb Matthew Price Group Threshold 306.1m Weighting % of salary 31.25% 26.25% revenue Maximum 332.9m Actual 316.4m Payout % of salary 21.57% 16.55% Group adjusted Threshold 103.2m Weighting % of salary 93.75% 78.75% operating Maximum 115.2m profit Actual 107.8m Payout % of salary 68.47% 52.54% Personal The personal targets were set individually for each Weighting % of salary 60% 60% Executive Director based on the key objectives for the Payout % of salary 43.78% 40% year in their area of responsibility see below Total Payout % of maximum 72% 66% Payout % of salary 134% 109% The personal targets were set individually for each Executive Director based on the key areas of strategic focus for the year in their area of responsibility.
The Committee assessed the personal targets and determined that they should pay out as set out in the table above.
Detail on the underlying targets is commercially sensitive and cannot be disclosed, however, the following tables highlight key objectives and achievements for the personal targets of each Director: Peter Plumb Maximum opportunity Objective % of salary Performance outcome and key achievements Strategic: Innovate new 25% Built new organisational capability including an Innovation Lab in Manchester and an services for the next generation improved internal development process: as explained in more detail on page 13, of Moneysupermarket Group launched MoneySavingExpert Credit Club through a strategic partnership with customers Experian: and as detailed on page 6, built and launched the new MoneySuperMarket GO app including a pioneering wallet functionality.
Strategic: Leverage new 15% Fusion platform leveraged to enable personalisation of MoneySuperMarkets motor Fusion platform to grow and home insurance services and to enable customer insights, data analysis and MoneySuperMarket share in commercial partnerships to focus on delivering leading prices to motor and home insurance MoneySuperMarkets customers.
MoneySuperMarket market share in both motor insurance and home insurance grew during 2016.
Operational: Build a strong 10% A number of initiatives were implemented in 2016 focused on doing the right thing organisation focused on doing for customers including a revised Code of Conduct, improvements to our Customer the right thing for our First programme and as explained in more detail on pages 43 and 54, significant customers enhancements to our change management and incident management processes.
During the year, the Group was strengthened with a number of key strategic hires and the HR team worked with business heads to increase the focus on employee engagement.
Operational: Return 10% Operational review undertaken of the Travel business.
New leadership team TravelSuperMarket to healthy recruited and business re-oriented back to its core purpose of helping families plan growth and compare their annual holiday.
Improvements to the customer journey and proposition ensured TravelSupermarket returned to strong revenue growth in the final quarter of 2016 with further enhancements planned for 2017.
60% 68 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Matthew Price Maximum opportunity Objective % of salary Performance Outcome and key achievements Strategic: Evaluate International 15% Led a mapping and review process of the UK and International financial comparison and UK acquisition players and market, including the creation of a detailed structure and evaluation opportunities and lead the process for acquisition opportunities.
Consolidated the three year growth plans for three year group planning each of the Group brands and steered the Board through the executional priorities process and resulting financial envelope for the Group.
Strategic: Build a wallet service 15% Led the strategic review of wallet service options including the vendor selection for GO app capable of process.
Audited vendor capabilities to ensure they met required Group security incentivisation and improved standards and recommended preferred solution which was implemented and went switching capabilities live in October 2016.
Operational: Step change the 15% During the year, the Finance team was strengthened with a number of hires.
Led quality and rigour of services dedicated teams across management accounts, risk and legal, aligned with each of delivered by Finance to the the brands and support functions, enhancing the quality and rigour of services by Group the Finance function to the Group.
Operational: Step change the 15% Led the review of framework and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control level of controls across the including the framework for the standardisation of controls during 2016.
By the end of business in line with the 2016, 92% of controls were standardised, as confirmed by the external auditor.
Led the company risk appetite Groups back office system review including recommendation on improvements and statement strategic plan.
Led the back office vendor selection process and appointment of vendor with plan for implementation during 2017 to further enhance the level of key controls with the aim to automate certain key controls during 2017.
60% 4 Vesting of LTIP awards The LTIP award made on 3 April 2014 was based on performance to the year ended 31 December 2016.
The performance targets for this award, and actual performance against those targets, was as follows: Metric Weighting Performance condition Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting % Vesting 30% 150% Compound annual 70% Compound annual growth in adjusted EBITDA from 6% 17% 12.8% 108% growth in 31December 2013 to 31 December 2016. adjusted EBITDA Comparative total 30% Comparative total shareholder return against the Median Upper Above 150% shareholder constituents of the FTSE 250 index from 31 December quartile upper return 2014 to 31 December 2016.
Comparative total quartile shareholder return measured over three financial years with a one month average at the startand end of the performance period.
Total vesting 121% Vesting is determined by a set formula between threshold and maximum for the adjusted EBITDA element and on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum for the comparative total shareholder return element.
The award made in 2014 was calibrated as a number of shares with a maximum vesting of 150% of that number.
The value attributed to vested shares under long-term incentives in the remuneration table for 2016 includes amounts relating to dividend equivalents payable on vested LTIP awards over the three-year period ended 3 April 2017.
The value attributed to vested shares under long-term incentives in the remuneration table for 2016 is an estimate based on the average share price during the three months ended 31 December 2016 2.81.
The 2015 value of the vested shares in the remuneration table has been updated from last years value to represent the actual value received on the date of vesting.
5 Additional disclosure on previous bonus targets In 2015, the bonus calculation for Graham Donoghue who left the Board on 8 October 2015 included a 60% of salary element based on MoneySuperMarket revenue and operating profit targets.
At the time of publication of the 2015 Annual Report, the Board considered that the targets were commercially sensitive.
The Board now considers that the performance targets, weightings, and actual performance against the revenue growth targets for Graham Donoghue can be disclosed.
The operating profit for MoneySuperMarket does not form part of our segmental reporting in our Financial Statements and therefore cannot be separately disclosed.
Performance targets FY15 Graham Donoghue MoneySuperMarket revenue Threshold 225.0m Weighting % of salary 15% Maximum 252.4m Actual 250.1m Payout % of salary 14.26% Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives granted during the year audited On 21 March 2016, the following LTIP awards were made to the Executive Directors: % of maximum that would Face value vest at Type Basis of of award threshold Vesting determined Executive Director of award award granted performance by performance over Peter Plumb Conditional award 200% of salary 938,000 20% Three financial years to Matthew Price Conditional award 165% of salary 522,638 20% 31 December 2018 Face value determined using the average share price over the preceding five trading days prior to the date of grant 21 March 2016 of3.31.
The performance targets for this award are as follows: Metric Weighting % of award Performance condition Threshold Maximum Vesting % of maximum 20% 100% Compound annual growth in 70% Compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per 7% 17% adjusted earnings per share share over the three-year performance period Comparative total 30% Comparative total shareholder return against Median Upper shareholder return the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index quartile excluding investment trusts over the three-year performance period.
Three-month averaging is applied at the start and end of the performance period Vesting is on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of outstanding share awards held by the Executive Directors.
The awards made in 2013 and 2014 were calibrated as a number of shares with a maximum vesting of 150% of that number.
The figures shown in the above represent the maximum available if the performance targets are met in full.
20% of the maximum vests for threshold performance.
2 Awards of LTIPs made in 2015 and 2016 vest by reference to an EPS performance condition 70% of the award and a comparative TSR performance condition 30% of the award.
Payments to past Directors audited Graham Donoghue resigned as a Director on 8 October 2015.
As a result of the Remuneration Committee exercising its discretion to treat Graham Donoghue as a good leaver for the 2013 LTIP award, the maximum number of shares in his award was reduced pro rata oncessation from 198,029 to 181,527 shares.
Based on the achievement of the performance conditions, 154,097 shares vested on 20March 2016.
Payments for loss of office audited There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
70 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited Outstanding Beneficially share awards Total as a % of owned at Outstanding under all Total base salary at 31 December LTIP employee interest 31 December Director 2016 awards share plans in shares 2016 Peter Plumb 1,089,160 1,098,059 12,040 2,199,259 654% Matthew Price 42,646 606,628 9,951 659,225 38% Bruce Carnegie-Brown 50,000 50,000 n a Andrew Fisher n a Robin Freestone 20,000 20,000 n a Sally James 20,000 20,000 n a Rob Rowley n a Genevieve Shore n a Executive Directors are currently required to hold shares in the Company worth 100% of base salary and must retain 50% of the net of tax value of any vested LTIP shares until the guideline is met.
The shareholding value used for the purposes of the table above is based on the average share price during December 2016 of 2.81.
Following the implementation of the new Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors will be required to hold shares in the Company worth 200% of base salary and must retain 50% of the net of tax value of any vested LTIP shares until the guideline is met.
In the period from 31 December 2016 to the date of this Report, there has been no change in the Directors interests in shares in the Company.
Performance graph and table unaudited The following graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return of the Company over the last eight financial years relative to the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The Remuneration Committee considers the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts to be an appropriate index for total shareholder return and comparison disclosure as it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company is a constituent member.
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
com Group PLC 800 FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts 600 400 200 0 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the last eight financial years are shown in the table below.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that years performance and LTIP awards based on three-year performance periods ending in the relevant year.
The annual bonus payout and LTIP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years.
Year ended 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 660,667 868,748 1,024,156 2,866,123 3,059,163 3,365,277 2,715,342 2,391,627 Annual bonus % of maximum 77% 77% 91% 94% 83% 85% 95% 72% LTIP vesting % of maximum n a n a n a 94% 100% 98% 85% 81% Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration unaudited The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and annual bonus between the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, compared to that of the average percentage change for all UK employees of the Group for each of these elements of pay.
2015 2016 Other CEO CEO CEO employees % change % change Salary 459,000 469,000 2% 3% Taxable benefits 14,000 14,000 0% -5% Annual bonus 802,837 627,599 -22% -28% UK employees have been selected as the most appropriate comparator pool, given our headquarters are located in the UK.
Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends, tax and retained profits: 2015 2016 change % Staff costs m 43.7 42.5 -3% Dividends m 50.0 53.9 8% Tax m 16.4 17.8 9% Retained profits m 63.4 73.5 16% 2016 includes a proposed final dividend of 7.1p per share.
The dividends figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Fisher Chairman, Robin Freestone, Sally James and Genevieve Shore.
Biographies of the members of the Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 38 and 39.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and Company Secretary may attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee, except when their own remuneration is under consideration.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The members of the Remuneration Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Remuneration Committees duties include: determining the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and executive management: determining the remuneration package of the Chairman, Executive Directors and executive management, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and pension arrangements within the terms of the agreed framework and policy: and determining awards under the Companys long-term incentive schemes.
The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions during the year.
Details of the attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are as set out below: Meetings in 2016 Eligible to Committee members attend Attended Andrew Fisher chairman 5 5 Robin Freestone 5 5 Sally James 5 5 1 Genevieve Shore 5 4 1 Genevieve Shore was unable to attend one meeting due to personal reasons The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration During 2016, the Remuneration Committee and the Company received advice from Deloitte LLP, who are independent remuneration consultants, in connection with remuneration matters including the Groups performance related remuneration policy.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is committed to that groups voluntary code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK.
Deloitte LLP has no other connection or relationship with the Group.
During 2016, Deloitte LLP also provided services to the Group in respect of corporate tax and VAT advice, operational audit advisory work and HR consultancy.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP for providing advice in relation to executive remuneration over the financial year under review was 96,800.
72 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t G G Gove ove over r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e F F Finan inan inanc c ci i ial al al S S St t tat at ate e em m me e ent nt nts s s Outside appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards so long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Group.
In the year ended 31 December 2016 Peter Plumb received 60,000 2015: 31,000 as a non-executive director of Co-operative Group Limited.
Remuneration Committee effectiveness In 2016 we carried out a separate evaluation of Remuneration Committee effectiveness by questionnaire.
The questionnaire focused on areas such as composition, how the Committee operates, its responsibilities and knowledge and experience of members as well as the advice and support it receives from its remuneration consultants.
The responses were discussed at a Committee meeting.
We also reviewed its progress against actions identified in the 2015 evaluation: 2015 evaluation actions update The following actions were identified during the 2015 evaluation: further enhancements to papers submitted to the Committee papers have been significantly enhanced during the year: and further enhancements to the process for setting bonus objectives the process has been enhanced since the 2015 evaluation.
2016 evaluation actions Some of the development areas that will be actioned in 2017 include: ensuring risk is appropriately considered as part of the remuneration setting process: and ensuring the Committee continues to be appraised of developments in shareholder expectations on remuneration.
The Board, based on the evaluation exercise, concluded that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2016.
Statement of voting at general meeting At last years Annual General Meeting, the following votes were received from shareholders in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report: Votes % Votes cast in favour 376,899,947 88.43% Votes cast against 49,308,618 11.57% Total votes cast 433,030,827 100% Abstentions 6,822,262 Includes Chairmans discretionary votes.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Andrew Fisher Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2017 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73
