70 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT A STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
In last years report I outlined the changes that the Committee proposed to make to the Remuneration Policy following its review of the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
These proposals were put forward in last years report, approved at the AGM in May 2016 and implemented as the Groups 2016 Remuneration Policy, which will stand for the next three years.
2016 was the first full year for Pete Raby as the Chief Executive Officer CEO of the Group and it was the year for implementing the first stages of the Groups new strategy.
2017 will see Morgan investing for sustainable, long-term growth as well as implementing portfolio re-shaping as first outlined by Pete Raby in February 2016.
The Remuneration Committee is therefore making minor amendments to the implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2017 to ensure that they are aligned with our strategic aims, motivate and reward we offer incentives that continue to support strategy development and management for delivering sustainable above-peer performance, execution and to maximise returns to shareholders.
The incentives will and support retention.
be implemented to ensure a focus on the quality of performance across the year as well as the year-end result.
For the 2017 cycle, it is proposed that the ROCE performance measure be replaced by a ROIC measure, which includes total In summary, the proposals for how we implement our Remuneration intangible assets in the definition of capital employed.
This is felt to be Policy in 2017 are as follows: a more complete measure of the return on capital employed and so The Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Return on Capital Employed will incentivise better capital management across the Group.
The range ROCE performance measure will be replaced by a Return on being applied to the new ROIC measure will be 16%-19%, which Invested Capital ROIC measure, which provides a more is considered to be of equivalent stretch as the ROCE performance complete measure of Morgans returns.
range applied to that element of the 2016 LTIP.
The relative TSR element of the LTIP remains split equally between two comparator The bonus plan cash generation element will continue to be benchmarks: the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index, measured on a straight-line basis but will be subject to an and a tailored group of international sector comparators.
The constituents adjustment based on meeting quarterly cash targets in addition to of this sector benchmark are shown on page 85 of this Remuneration the year-end measure.
For each quarterly cash target that is missed report.
there will be a corresponding 10% reduction in the result of the cash generation element.
The EPS performance range against multiple relevant reference points including the Groups strategic plan, external market factors and broker We have engaged with our largest shareholders on these proposals, forecasts, remains 4%-11% pa. and we value the views, feedback and support we have received.
The feedback we have received on our overall proposals at the time During the year, the Committee met four times, and its activities included: of writing has been generally positive.
A review of the Groups Remuneration Policy and its In reviewing performance in 2016, some level of bonus will be paid implementation supporting the Groups business strategy.
in respect of all elements: cash generation, Group EBITA and the good A review of external benchmarking of executive remuneration progress made on personal objectives which are focused on a mix packages.
of short-term and long-term priorities to drive sustainable, enduring Determination of the remuneration packages for the executive growth.
The 2014 LTIP awards will also see a partial level of vesting Directors and other Group executives.
in respect of the Groups relative total shareholder return TSR, A review of whether the measures for the bonus and share which places Morgan at the 53rd percentile of the comparator group.
Determination of appropriate performance targets for bonus The Committee decided that, taking into account the performance of and share incentive schemes.
the Group in 2016, labour market conditions and the below-median recruitment salary of the CEO which for 2016 was unchanged on that Determination of whether targets for the bonus and share incentive set in August 2015 on appointment, the appropriate level of salary schemes were achieved.
increase for the CEO would be 5.3% and for the Chief Financial Officer This report is intended to be consistent with the current reporting CFO it would be 2%.
There will also be an increase to the fees for the regulations for executive remuneration.
I hope we have been successful Chairman and non-executive Directors of 2% for 2017. in continuing to achieving the clarity and transparency that will be of help to our shareholders.
The difficult market conditions and the achievability of incentive targets have once again caused us to reflect on their motivational impact on retaining and attracting key executive talent.
We have therefore DOUGLAS CASTER reconsidered performance measures and incentive targets to ensure CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 71 Compliance statement This Report covers the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Policy of Morgan Advanced Materials plc, and how that Policy has been implemented for the year under review and will be implemented for the coming year.
During the year under review, the Company has complied with the principles and provisions relating to Directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code and this Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
This includes the implementation of malus and clawback provisions for shortand long-term incentives granted in the 2016 financial year and to be granted in future years, as detailed in last years Remuneration Report.
In accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act an advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 5 May 2017.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration, including pension rights and any compensation payments, of the Groups executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
The Remuneration Committee consults the CEO and invites him to attend meetings when appropriate.
The Group Human Resources Director attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committee also had access to advice from the CFO.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No executive Director or other attendee is present when his or her own remuneration is being discussed.
Membership of the Committee is shown on page 78.
POLICY REPORT Key principles of the executive Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to promote the long-term success of the Company by ensuring that we are able to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre to create value for shareholders.
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related, with an appropriate balance between shortand long-term performance, and is based on the achievement of measurable targets that are relevant to, and support the business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee will keep the Remuneration Policy under periodic review to ensure it remains aligned with the Groups strategy, and in line with the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration.
This includes ensuring that performance-related elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied, as well as reflecting the guidance of institutional investors and their representative bodies.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 72 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Summary of Morgan Advanced Materials plcs Remuneration Policy for executive Directors This section of the Report sets out the current Remuneration Policy for executive Directors and non-executive Directors.
This Policy remains unchanged from that which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM and which is effective for a period of up to three years from that date.
The only amendments in the Policy Report below compared to that approved by shareholders in 2016 are: to update the data used in the pay for performance scenario analysis to provide figures for 2017: to remove references to implementation in 2016: and to update page references.
PURPOSE AND PERFORMANCE LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are generally reviewed Base salary increases are applied in line Not applicable.
Provides the fixed element of the each January, with reference to the with the outcome of the annual review.
Set at salary levels at companies of similar Salaries in respect of the year under competitive levels against the market.
The review and for the following year Committee also considers individual are disclosed in the Annual Report contribution and the range of salary on Remuneration.
increases applying across the Group when determining increases.
Salary increases for executive Directors will normally be within the range of increases for the general employee population over the period of this Policy.
Where increases are awarded in excess of those for the wider employee population, for example in instances of sustained strong individual performance, if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, or if an individual was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Defined benefit scheme subject to Opportunities vary depending on the Not applicable.
Provides post-retirement benefits for a notional earnings cap with an scheme in which an executive Director participants in a cost-efficient manner.
above-the-cap allowance for executive participates.
Details are set out in the Directors who joined the Company Annual Report on Remuneration before 1 August 2011. on pages 78 to 91.
Defined contribution scheme and or Above-the-cap pension allowances will a cash allowance in lieu thereof for be established in line with our principle executive Directors who joined the to be broadly cost-neutral.
For new hires, defined contributions or cash in lieu thereof will be up to 20% of salary.
Benefits Can include company car car Benefits values vary by role and are Not applicable.
Designed to be competitive in allowance, health insurance and, reviewed periodically relative to market.
the market in which the individual where appropriate, relocation is employed.
It is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will change materially year on year over the period for which this Policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances eg relocation expenses, expatriation allowances etc or in circumstances where factors outside the Groups control have changed materially eg market increases in insurance costs.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 73 PURPOSE AND PERFORMANCE LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS Variable pay Annual bonus Performance measures are set by the Up to 150% of salary.
Bonuses for the executive Directors Incentivises the achievement of Committee at the start of the year and may be based on a combination of specific goals over the short term are weighted to reflect a balance of The payout for threshold performance financial and non-financial measures.
that are also aligned to the long-term financial and strategic objectives.
may vary year on year, but will not The weighting of non-financial business strategy.
exceed 25% of the maximum performance will be capped at At the end of the year, the Remuneration opportunity.
Committee determines the extent to which these have been achieved.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration To the extent that the performance on pages 78 to 91. criteria have been met, up to 67% of the resulting annual bonus is paid in cash.
The remaining balance is deferred into shares and released after a further period of three years, subject to continued employment only.
Cash and deferred share bonuses awarded for performance in 2016 onwards will be subject to malus and clawback.
Further details of our malus and clawback Policy are set out at the end of this table.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Remuneration Committee has the The LTIP provides for a conditional The vesting of awards is usually Aligns the interests of executives and ability each year to grant an award under award of shares up to an annual limit subject to: shareholders by delivering shares the LTIP.
to executive Directors and other the Groups performance over senior executives as a reward for The award levels and performance 25% of an award vests for achievement a three-year performance period, outstanding long-term performance.
conditions on which vesting depends are of the threshold level of performance.
currently a combination of TSR, reviewed prior to the start of each award EPS and ROCE.
cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
Measures continue to include TSR and EPS as in previous years.
For awards made in 2016 onwards, ROCE to be replaced in 2017 vested shares may be subject to a with ROIC.
Details of any such holding period will be disclosed The Committee has discretion to in the Annual Report on Remuneration extend the performance period and for the year in which the relevant award adjust the measures, their weighting, is made.
and performance targets prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they Awards are subject to malus and or continue to align with the Groups clawback for a period of five years from strategy.
Further details of our clawback Policy are set out at the end Further details of the measures of this table.
attached to the LTIP awarded in the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 78 to 91.
Sharesave An HMRC-approved scheme where Up to the savings limit as determined by None.
A voluntary scheme open to all employees may save up to a monthly HMRC from time to time, across all UK employees which aligns the savings limit out of their own pay Sharesave schemes in which an individual interests of participants with those towards options granted at up to a 20% has enrolled.
of shareholders through any growth discount.
Options may not be exercised in the value of shares.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 74 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Malus and clawback Policy Malus and clawback will apply on the annual bonus and LTIP as set out on page 73 in cases of misconduct or material misstatement in the published results of the Group or where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, a participant has been deemed to have caused in full or in part a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
Cash bonuses will be subject to clawback, with deferred shares subject to malus over the deferral period.
LTIP awards are subject to malus over the vesting period and clawback from the vesting date to the fifth anniversary of grant.
Payments under existing awards The Company will honour any commitment entered into, and Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award granted, prior to the approval and implementation of the current Remuneration Policy detailed in this Report ie before 6 May 2016, even if these commitments and or awards fall outside the above Policy.
The Company will also honour any commitment entered into at a time prior to an individual becoming a Director if, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Details of these awards are, and will be, disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Difference in policy between executive Directors and other employees The Remuneration Policy for other employees is based on principles broadly consistent with those described in this Report for the executive Directors.
Annual salary reviews across the Group take into account business performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All executives are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
Opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Other senior executives participate in the LTIP on similar terms to the executive Directors, although award sizes may vary according to each individual, and by organisational level.
Below this level, executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP and other share-based incentives by annual invitation.
Use of discretion To ensure fairness and align executive Director remuneration with underlying individual and Group performance, the Committee may exercise its discretion to adjust, upwards or downwards, the outcome of any shortor long-term incentive plan payment within the limits of the relevant Plan Rules for corporate or exceptional events including, but not limited to: corporate transactions, changes in the Groups accounting policies, minor or administrative matters, internal promotions, external recruitment, terminations, etc.
Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be made on a neutral basis, to not be to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during the financial year under review will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measure selection The Committee considers carefully the selection of performance measures at the start of each performance cycle, taking into consideration the macro-economic environment as well as specific Group strategic objectives.
Annual bonus measures are selected to closely reinforce the Groups short-term KPIs.
Because these can change from year to year in line with the Remuneration Policy, the rationale for the selection of bonus measures for each year has been moved to the Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP performance measures are reviewed periodically to ensure they continue to align with the Companys strategy, as well as provide an appropriate balance between growth and returns, internal and external performance, and absolute and relative performance.
For 2017 awards, the TSR element of the LTIP award will continue to comprise two parts.
One half of the TSR element will vest subject to the Groups performance relative to a TSR benchmark comprising the 114 constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index.
This benchmark is robust to M&A activity and comprises companies that are subject to the same market influences as Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
The remaining half of the TSR element will vest subject to Morgans performance relative to a TSR benchmark comprising 16 listed international carbon, ceramics and other materials companies.
This benchmark was selected to complement the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index with a group of companies that better reflect Morgans business, the markets in which Morgan operates and the geographical footprint of the Group.
For each part of the TSR award, the vesting performance range is calibrated to be stretching and in line with common market practice for FTSE TSR-based long-term incentives.
EPS targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal forecasts, external expectations for future EPS performance at both Morgan Advanced Materials plc and its closest sector peers, and typical EPS performance ranges at other FTSE 350 companies.
LTIP EPS performance ranges are set to represent demanding and challenging performance targets over the three-year performance period.
For 2017, it is proposed to amend the definition of returns used in the LTIP to include total intangible assets in the definition of capital employed ie using Return on Invested Capital, or ROIC, rather than ROCE as in previous cycles.
The Board considers ROIC to be a more complete measure of value creation because it measures the efficiency of Morgans total capital base rather than its operational capital base only.
For the 2017 LTIP cycle, ROIC will be calculated as follows: EBITA pre-specific adjusting items 12-month average third party working capital total fixed assets total tangible fixed assets ROIC targets are set using a similar approach referring to external reference points and reflecting the returns required to meet and exceed the Groups internal strategic plan.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 75 Share ownership guidelines In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors.
Under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 200% of basic salary.
Current executive Director shareholdings are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 87.
External appointments With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Group, executive Directors may accept external appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
Details of external directorships held by executive Directors along with fees retained are provided on page 84.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The graphs below provide detailed illustrations of the potential future reward opportunity for executive Directors, and the potential mix between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, Target and Stretch.
These have been updated to illustrate the potential opportunity under the 2017 packages proposed for executive Directors.
PETE RABY CEO PETER TURNER CFO Stretch 2,093k Stretch 1,681k 30% 35% 35% 30% 35% 35% Target 1,165k Target 925k 52% 32% 16% 52% 32% 16% Below Below 608k 483k 100% 100% threshold threshold 000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Fixed pay base salary, pension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the Policy which was approved at the 2016 AGM, applied to the annual base salary in effect at 1 January 2017.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2017 before mandatory deferral into shares.
The LTIP is based on the face value of awards to be granted in 2017 150% of salary.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the LTIP in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
This illustration is intended to provide further information to shareholders on the relationship between executive pay and performance.
The value of the LTIP assumes no increase in the underlying value of the shares, and actual amounts delivered will be further influenced by changes in factors such as the Companys share price and the value of dividends paid.
The following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts: Scenario Annual bonus LTIP Fixed pay Stretch Maximum annual bonus.
Performance warrants full vesting 100% of the award.
Latest disclosed base salary, Target On-target annual bonus.
Performance warrants threshold pension and benefits.
Below threshold No annual bonus payable.
Details of executive Directors service contracts The executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Contracts may be terminated on 12 months notice given by the Company or on six months notice given by the executive Director concerned.
The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year: Notice period Date of service Executive Director Position Date of appointment agreement From employer From employee Pete Raby CEO 1 August 2015 30 January 2015 12 months 6 months Peter Turner CFO 11 April 2016 30 March 2016 12 months 6 months 1 Kevin Dangerfield CFO 4 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months 2 Andrew Hosty COO 28 July 2010 17 August 2010 12 months 6 months 1.
Kevin Dangerfield left the Group on 31 March 2016.
Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 76 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Exit payments Policy The Groups Policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements comprising base salary and any other statutory payments only.
In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Group may terminate the employment of an executive Director by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to base salary, together with the fair value of any other benefits to which the executive is contractually entitled under his or her service agreement, for the duration of the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in making appropriate payments in the context of outplacement, settling legal claims or potential legal claims by the departing executive Director, including any other amounts reasonably due to the executive Director, for example, to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
On termination of an executive Directors service contract, the Remuneration Committee will consider the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the timing of when any payment in lieu of notice will be made.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus or the vesting of long-term incentives on termination.
However, the table that follows summarises the Policy on how awards under the annual bonus, LTIP and BDSMP will normally be treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to Committee discretion: Treatment of awards on cessation of employment and a change of control Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Time of vesting Annual bonus All reasons The Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment, and the Committee retains discretion to determine that the bonus should be paid wholly in cash.
The amount of bonus payable will be determined in the context of the time served during the performance year, the performance of the Group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Directors loss of office.
If Group or individual performance has been poor, or if the individuals employment has been terminated in circumstances amounting to misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
Mandatory deferred bonus share awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally vest in full ie not pro-rated for time.
At the normal vesting date, redundancy, retirement, unless the Committee decides or other such event as the that awards should vest earlier Committee determines eg in the event of death.
Change of control Awards will normally vest in full ie not pro-rated for time.
Awards may On change of control.
alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
All other reasons Awards normally lapse.
LTIP awards and BDSMP matching awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally be pro-rated for time and will vest based on At the normal vesting date, redundancy, retirement, performance over the original performance period unless the Committee unless the Committee decides or other such event as the decides to measure performance to the date of cessation.
that awards should vest earlier Committee determines eg in the event of death.
Change of control LTIP awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest subject to performance On change of control.
over the performance period to the change of control.
LTIP awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
BDSMP matching awards will normally vest subject to performance over the performance period to the change of control and will be pro-rated for time.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, where permitted by the scheme rules, to alter these default provisions on a case-by-case basis, following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 77 Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointment In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on: the size and nature of the responsibilities of the proposed role: current market pay levels for comparable roles: the candidates experience: implications for total remuneration: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension Option to join the defined contribution scheme, and or to receive a cash allowance.
Benefits As described in the Policy table and may include, but are not limited to, car, medical insurance, and relocation expenses and or allowances.
Sharesave New appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to all In line with HMRC limits.
Annual bonus As described in the Policy table and typically pro-rated for proportion of 150% of salary.
year served: performance measures may include strategic and operational objectives tailored to the individual in the financial year of joining.
LTIP New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIP on similar terms 250% of salary.
Other The Remuneration Committee may make an award under a different structure under the relevant Listing Rule to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Any such award would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Details of any such award will be disclosed in the first Annual Report on Remuneration following its grant.
Internal promotion to the Board In cases of appointing a new executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Policy will be consistent with that for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing executive Director Remuneration Policy at the time of promotion.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Remuneration Policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Annual fee Annual fees paid to the Chairman Annual fees are applied in line None.
To attract and retain high-calibre and non-executive Directors are with the outcome of the review.
An additional fee is payable for the Senior Independent Director, and also in respect of Committee chairmanship.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 78 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company.
They do have letters of appointment.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans.
The dates relating to the appointments of the Chairman and non-executive Directors who served during the reporting period are as follows: Non-executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Date of election re-election Andrew Shilston Chairman 8 May 2012 30 March 2012 6 May 2016 Helen Bunch Non-executive Director 24 February 2016 19 January 2016 6 May 2016 Douglas Caster Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 6 May 2016 1 Victoire fide Margerie Non-executive Director 8 May 2012 1 March 2012 n a 3 Laurence Mulliez Non-executive Director 6 May 2016 4 April 2016 n a 2 Andrew Reynolds Smith Non-executive Director 10 May 2013 14 February 2013 n a Rob Rowley Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 6 May 2016 1.
Victoire fide Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
Andrew Reynolds Smith stepped down from the Board on 6 May 2016.
Laurence Mulliez was appointed a Director at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM and a resolution to propose her election will be voted on by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Consideration of employment conditions The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, but the Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically on executive Remuneration Policy and framework.
Prior to the annual salary review, the Remuneration Committee is briefed by the Director of Human Resources about pay increase data that individual business units will consider when deciding local pay awards for their specific businesses and countries.
This also forms part of the considerations for determining executive Director remuneration.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the AGM each year, as well as guidance from investor representative bodies more broadly, in shaping Remuneration Policy.
The Committee keeps the Remuneration Policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Groups long-term strategy, and aligns executive Directors with shareholders interests.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its executive Remuneration Policy.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The following section provides details of how the Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2016 The Remuneration Committee is currently composed of five non-executive Directors.
Each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the Board as independent, except the Chairman of the Company who was considered independent upon appointment.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 57.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS Douglas Caster Chairman Andrew Shilston Rob Rowley 1 Helen Bunch 2 Laurence Mulliez 3 Victoire fide Margerie 4 Andrew Reynolds Smith 1.
H elen Bunch was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 24 February 2016.
L aurence Mulliez was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 6 May 2016.
V ictoire fide Margerie stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 4 February 2016.
A ndrew Reynolds Smith stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 6 May 2016.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 79 Summary of shareholder voting at the 2016 AGM The following table shows the results at the 2016 AGM of the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy, the advisory vote on the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration and the binding vote on an amendment to the LTIP.
1 Resolution For Against Withheld Remuneration Policy 98.86% 1.14% 932,484 Annual Remuneration on Remuneration 98.56% 1.44% 1,073,981 Amendment to the LTIP 98.85% 1.15% 929,576 1.
Votes withheld are not votes in law and, therefore, have not been included in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against the resolution.
Single total figure of remuneration for executive Directors The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the prior year.
Pete Raby joined the Group on 1 August 2015.
His remuneration for 2015 reflects the period 1 August to 31 December 2015.
Peter Turner joined the Group on 11 April 2016.
His remuneration for 2016 reflects the period 11 April to 31 December 2016.
K evin Dangerfield left the Group on 31 March 2016.
Details shown above are for the period 1 January to 31 March 2016.
For further details regarding Kevin Dangerfields leaving arrangements, please see page 83.
A ndrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
Details shown above are for the period 1 January to 8 January 2016.
For further details regarding Andrew Hostys leaving arrangements, please see page 83.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1.
Base salary: amount earned for the year.
2 Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year.
Includes private medical insurance and a company car or car allowance.
Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
The maximum opportunity in 2016 for each executive Director was 150% of the total salary earned during the 2016 year.
At the Committees discretion, Kevin Dangerfield remained eligible for a pro rata bonus in relation to the 2016 financial year.
Andrew Hosty did not participate in the annual bonus scheme for the 2016 financial year.
BDSMP: no matching share awards were made to executive Directors under the 2014 BDSMP.
Andrew Hosty participated in the 2013 BDSMP, under which matching share awards lapsed based on performance over the three-year period to 31 December 2015 as disclosed in last years Remuneration Report.
LTIP: the estimated value on 31 December 2016 of 2014 LTIP shares vesting in 2017 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2016.
The 2015 value represents the actual value of 2013 LTIP shares at vesting on 28 February 2016, which lapsed based on performance over the three-year period to 31 December 2015.
Pension: in respect of Pete Raby and Peter Turner, the figure is a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
In respect of Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty, the figure is 20 times the increase in the value of their accrued benefit net of inflation over the year, less Directors contributions, plus the value of any Company contribution.
Other: for Pete Raby comprises the value of Sharesave options granted in the year, based on the embedded value at grant 20% of the grant-date share price multiplied by the number of options granted.
Full details of executive Director Sharesave options are available on pages 88 to 90 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For Pete Raby in 2015, reflects the value at grant of the one-off restricted share awards on recruitment disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
This value comprises a one-off cash award of 50,000, and a restricted share award with a face-value on grant of 400,000.
The first tranche of Pete Rabys restricted share award vested on 31 December 2016, with the remainder due to vest on 31 December 2017, subject to his continued employment with the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 80 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2016 Annual bonus in respect of 2016 performance Targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the shortand long-term requirements of the Group.
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid.
This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets.
For 2016, the bonus targets for the executive Directors were split between Group EBITA before restructuring weighted 40%, cash generation weighted 40% and individual strategic personal objectives weighted 20%.
The targets were set to incentivise the executive Directors to deliver stretching profit and cash performance for the Group.
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the overall performance of the Group.
The table that follows sets out retrospectively the assessment of performance relative to the 2016 bonus targets for the executive Directors.
Actual bonus payments are shown in the single total figure of remuneration table above.
Performance range Actual % of maximum Threshold Maximum performance % payout % salary Performance measure bonus element 0% payout 100% payout outcome of element earned Group EBITA 40% 100.4m 113.65m 101.9m 11.3% 6.8% Cash generation 40% 121.0m 133.0m 124.5m 29.2% 17.5% Personal objectives Pete Raby 20% 66.7% 20% Please see narrative below Peter Turner 20% for further details on objectives 86.7% 26% 1 2 and performance against these Kevin Dangerfield 20% 90.0% 27% 1.
Kevin Dangerfield left the Group on 31 March 2016 and was eligible for a pro-rated discretionary cash bonus for the first quarter only of the 2016 year.
Personal objective performance for Kevin Dangerfield was agreed at the point of termination and set at 27% out of the maximum 30%.
% of salary earned Maximum bonus Overall outcome % salary Group EBITA Cash generation Personal Total outcome Total payable Pete Raby 150% 6.8% 17.5% 20% 44.3% 208,210 Peter Turner 150% 6.8% 17.5% 26% 50.3% 145,241 1 Kevin Dangerfield 150% 6.8% 17.5% 27% 51.3% 41,360 Note: For both the EBITA and cash generation metrics, there was a straight-line payout between the threshold and maximum figures and all figures were calculated using 2016 budgeted exchange rates.
Pete Rabys personal objectives were based on six main priorities: 1 drive improvement in the safety culture and behaviours of the Group, 2 talent management, 3 efficiency and on-time delivery performance, 4 technology priorities and performance, 5 sales effectiveness and 6 portfolio management.
Pete delivered most of these priorities during 2016, notably including the targeted improvement in Health and Safety performance of the Group, the acceleration of the technology management and steady improvement in efficiency and delivery over the year leading to close-to-target attainment.
Further, Pete continued to build his Executive team during 2016.
The payout of this element was adjudicated at two-thirds of maximum, reflecting that some actions will continue into 2017.
Peter Turners personal objectives after joining in the second quarter of 2016 were based on six main priorities: 1 drive improvement in the safety culture and behaviours for the group, 2 develop the finance strategy for the group, 3 support group strategy implementation & development, 4 improve management information, 5 develop the finance team and 6 improve cash management.
Payout of this element was adjudicated at 86.7% of maximum, reflecting that Peter delivered against these objectives with most being met in full, particularly delivering against the financial management strategy, execution in the business and developing the finance function.
Further, Peter Turner supported the continued development of the Group corporate strategy and execution against that, partnering with the CEO.
Performance against Kevin Dangerfields personal objective was assessed at the point he left the Group and the payout confirmed as being 90% of that element.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 81 2014 LTIP award vesting Awards granted to executive Directors in 2014 were subject to relative TSR performance, EPS growth and Group average ROCE over a threeyear period ended 31 December 2016.
The EPS target applying to one-third of each award required three-year EPS growth of 8% per annum for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for EPS growth of 15% pa or higher.
Over the period Morgan Advanced Materials plcs actual EPS growth was below threshold and accordingly none of the award will vest under this criterion.
The TSR target applying to one-third of each award required Morgan Advanced Materials plcs three-year TSR performance to rank at median against constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials plcs TSR ranked at or above the upper quartile against this Index.
Morgan Advanced Materials plcs TSR was 7%, which was at the 53rd percentile versus the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index.
Accordingly, this warrants 38.1% vesting of the TSR element of the 2014 LTIP.
The Group average ROCE target applying to the remaining one-third of each award required three-year Group average ROCE of 33% for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for Group average ROCE of 37% or higher.
Morgan Advanced Materials plcs Group average ROCE was 25.6%, which was below the 33% threshold for this part of the award, and therefore none of the award will vest under this criterion.
This combined performance resulted in a partial vesting of the 2014 LTIP at 12.7%.
Details of the awards to executive Directors are set out in the 1 table below : Maximum Maximum potential potential LTIP LTIP-CSOP LTIP award LTIP-CSOP LTIP-CSOP 4 5 Director award award vested award vested award exercised Date of vesting 2 Kevin Dangerfield 28 February 2017 3 Andrew Hosty 93,101 7,883 28 February 2017 1.
Pete Raby and Peter Turner had not joined the Board in 2014 and are therefore did not participate in this cycle.
Kevin Dangerfields awards lapsed in full when he left the Group on 31 March 2016 in line with the default provisions of the Policy.
I n line with the default provisions of the Policy, Andrew Hosty was treated as a good leaver in respect of outstanding LTIP awards.
Andrew Hostys original 2014 award was over 93,101 shares, but this was pro-rated for time and reduced to 62,027 when he left the Group on 8 January 2016.
The vesting of these awards remained subject to performance over the full performance period and will vest in line with the performance criteria achieved as described above.
Calculated using the award price of 3.3834 the average share price over the five dealing days from 21 February 2014 to 27 February 2014.
The interest in the 2014 LTIP retained by Mark Robertshaw who left the Company on 31 December 2014 will vest in line with performance conditions and has been pro-rated according to time served.
The vested amount of Mark Robertshaws 2014 LTIP Award will be 12.7 % of 58,521 shares.
2015 recruitment award to Pete Raby As disclosed in last years Remuneration Report, an award of 114,351 ordinary shares in the Company valued on the date of award at 400,000, calculated using the share price on 3 August 2015 of 3.4980 was made to Pete Raby on 3 August 2015 in connection with his recruitment.
This award was granted in accordance with Recruitment Policy, and was made in recognition of the fair value of incentive awards which he forfeited on leaving his former employer.
The award vests in two tranches, on the dates set out below, subject to Pete Raby not having resigned or been dismissed in specified circumstances.
There are no performance conditions attached to this award, reflecting the structure of the award forfeited on his joining Morgan.
Number of shares subject to award Shares released on vesting Vesting date 1 57,176 57,176 31 December 2016 57,175 31 December 2017 1.
The first tranche of the recruitment award to Pete Raby was released on 3 January 2017.
Pension The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
In the year under review, one of the four executive Directors, Kevin Dangerfield, participated in the Morgan Group Senior Staff Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Senior Scheme which is a contributory, HMRC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme.
With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme switched from final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years.
Its main features are now: A normal pension age of 65.
Pension at normal pension age based on two-thirds of career average pensionable salary, for those with at least 20 years 26 years and eight months for joiners since 2006 potential service to age 65 on joining.
Life assurance of four times basic salary.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 82 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Pensionable salary in the Senior Scheme is the members basic salary restricted to an earnings cap of 117,375 for Kevin Dangerfield.
Additional information 2016 2015 Value of increase Value of increase in scheme benefit in scheme benefit Accrued pension Accrued pension less Directors less Directors 31 December 31 December contributions contributions 2016 2015 Executive Director 000 000 000 pa 000 pa Kevin Dangerfield 14 27 49 49 Andrew Hosty 4 23 63 62 Pete Raby and Peter Turner each receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension of 20% of basic salary.
They are not accruing benefits within the Senior Scheme.
Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive Directors The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the prior year.
Helen Bunch was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2016.
Laurence Mulliez was appointed to the Board on 6 May 2016.
Payments made on behalf of Victoire fide Margerie by the Company in respect of UK tax filings.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 83 Scheme interests awarded in 2016 2016 LTIP awards In 2016, Pete Raby and Peter Turner were granted awards under the LTIP as follows: Value of awards at grant Number of Number of LTIP LTIP-CSOP as % of 2016 1 Executive Director shares granted shares granted annualised salary Date of vesting Pete Raby 292,022 705,000 150% 23 May 2019 Peter Turner 226,783 12,426 577,500 150% 23 May 2019 1.
Calculated using the award price of 2.4142 the average share price over the five dealing days from 16 to 20 May 2016.
The Committee discusses and reviews the performance criteria for new three-year LTIP awards before they are granted.
For the awards granted in 2016, the Committee considered the balance of measures in light of the Groups business plan and shareholder feedback, and decided to maintain the equal one-third weighting of the three performance criteria introduced in 2012.
For the 2016 LTIP award, the TSR element was split into two parts: one half of this element will vest based on Morgans TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrial Index comprising 118 companies and one half will vest based on Morgans TSR performance relative to a tailored comparator group of 17 industry comparators.
The table below sets out the targets attaching to 2016 LTIP awards: TSR vs FTSE All-Share % of award % of award % of award % of award Industrials Index that vests TSR vs peer group that vests EPS growth that vests Group ROCE that vests Upper quartile 16.67% Upper quartile 16.67% 11% pa 33.33% 33% 33.33% Median 4.17% Median 4.17% 4% pa 8.33% 27% 8.33% Below median Nil Below median Nil 4% pa Nil 27% Nil Exit payments made in year The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Kevin Dangerfield Kevin Dangerfield left the Group on 31 March 2016.
Details of payments made to Kevin Dangerfield relating to his termination of employment were published on 24 March 2016.
In accordance with the terms of his service agreement, Kevin Dangerfield received a one-off payment of 87,360 in connection with the termination of his employment and the Group agreed to make three payments to Kevin Dangerfield in lieu of notice for the remainder of his contractual notice period, comprising base salary, the cash equivalent of pension contributions and other benefits.
The Company also agreed to pay outplacement fees up to 20,000.
The first of the payments, relating to termination, was made on his termination date and totalled 151,076 along with a payment for accrued but unused holiday of 7,442.
The two subsequent payments were due to be for 141,076 each and the last was due to be made no later than November 2016.
It was further determined that, if Kevin Dangerfield was to obtain an alternative remunerated position prior to 31 March 2017 the Group was entitled to make a corresponding reduction to these payments.
Following Kevin Dangerfields appointment to Laird PLC as CFO on 17 October 2016 the final payment of 141,706 was not paid.
All unvested share awards to Kevin Dangerfield lapsed upon termination of his employment.
It was agreed that Kevin Dangerfield would be entitled to a pro rata bonus payment for the 2016 bonus plan year, the value of which is disclosed in the single total figure of remuneration for executive Directors on page 79 along with the remuneration received by Kevin Dangerfield in respect of his employment from 1 January to 31 March 2016.
Andrew Hosty Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016 as a result of the role of COO being made redundant.
Details of payments due to him on cessation of employment were published on 2 October 2015.
In accordance with the terms of his service agreement, the Company agreed to make three equal payments to Andrew Hosty in lieu of notice for the remainder of his contractual notice period, comprising base salary, the cash equivalent of pension contributions and other benefits.
This totalled 104,468.02 for each instalment.
The first of these payments was made on his termination date and the last was made in July 2016.
The Company also made a lump sum payment for accrued but unused holiday of 24,507.72, and paid overall outplacement fees of 39,000 on Andrew Hostys behalf.
In response to the fact that the Company incurred outplacement fees in excess of the amount of 20,000 previously agreed with Andrew Hosty, Andrew Hostys gross payment in lieu of notice was therefore reduced by 19,000.
Because his termination was as a result of redundancy, the Committee agreed to apply the good leaver provisions set out in the Remuneration Policy pro-rated for time, and subject to performance measures, as approved by shareholders for his retained share awards.
Details of these unvested awards are shown in the corresponding tables on page 90.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 84 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Payments to past Directors The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Other than the payments set out in the section above, 12.7% of the time pro-rated interest in the 2014 LTIP retained by Mark Robertshaw who left the Company on 31 December 2014 will vest in early 2017, in line with the Groups performance over the completed performance period.
The number of shares vesting to Mark Robertshaw will be 7,432 shares.
Mark Robertshaw has no outstanding interests in the LTIP.
No payments were made to past Directors in the 2016 financial year.
External appointments Details of external appointments held by executive Directors and the fees retained in 2016 are provided in the table below: Executive Director Company Role Fees retained 1 Kevin Dangerfield e2v Technologies plc Non-executive Director 11,875 2 Andrew Hosty Consort Medical plc Non-executive Director 888 Pete Raby 3 Peter Turner 1.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 Base salary In line with the Remuneration Policy, executive Directors salaries were reviewed by the Committee and increased for 2017.
The table below shows the base salaries in 2016, and those which took effect from 1 January 2017: Base salary at: Executive Director Position 1 January 2017 1 January 2016 Increase Pete Raby CEO 495,000 470,000 5.3% 1 1 Peter Turner CFO 392,700 385,000 2.0% 1.
Peter Turner was appointed to the Board on 11 April 2016.
The above figure is an annualised amount.
As disclosed in the 2015 Remuneration Report, the Committee set Pete Rabys salary at a below-market positioning on appointment as Group CEO in 2015, and maintained it at this level for the 2016 financial year.
The Committee and Board as a whole have been delighted by Pete Rabys performance and contribution to date in the role against the agreed strategic objectives.
In line with the Groups philosophy of linking salary increases to individual performance in 2016, merit increases averaged 1.9% across the global employee population the Committee has agreed that an above-inflation increase to Pete Rabys salary by 5.3% to 495,000 is appropriate for the 2017 financial year.
Future above-inflation increases will continue to be based on Pete Rabys performance in the role and the performance of the Group.
The rationale for any future increases will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
In agreeing the increase awarded to Peter Turner, the Committee has been mindful of the range of increases to be awarded across the Group of 2% 2.5% on average in 2017, as well as Peter Turners strong performance in the role since his appointment.
Pension Pete Raby and Peter Turner will continue to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension worth 20% of salary.
Annual bonus in respect of 2017 performance The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 150% of salary with 33% of any bonus result deferred into shares for a further three-year period.
The only change proposed to the annual bonus for the 2017 financial year is to measure cash generation defined as EBITA plus depreciation and adjusted for the impact of working capital movements, and weighted 40% of the total bonus opportunity against quarterly cumulative targets as well as over the complete financial year.
For every quarterly target that is missed, the payout warranted for full-year performance under this element will be reduced by 10%.
The Committee believes that this approach better incentivises management to maintain focus on operating efficiency in difficult markets, as generating cash continues to be an important aspect of Group performance.
EBITA will also continue be weighted at 40%, with the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity continuing to be based on strategic personal objectives.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 85 The actual performance targets set at the beginning of the performance period are not disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive at this time, given the close link between performance measures and the Groups longer-term strategy.
This is particularly relevant in the context of some of the Groups close and unlisted competitors who are not required to disclose such information, and for whom the assumptions in our targets would provide valuable information in the current trading year.
We will disclose these targets retrospectively, a practice we have implemented since 2013, at such time as these targets have become less commercially sensitive, and within three years of the end of the performance year.
2017 LTIP awards In March 2017, Pete Raby and Peter Turner will be granted awards under the 2017 LTIP with face value of 150% of their respective base salaries for 2017.
The three-year performance period over which performance will be measured begins on 1 January 2017 and will end on 31 December 2019.
Further details of the awards will be disclosed in next years report.
The performance measures are detailed below: The relative TSR element of the LTIP will remain equally split between two comparator benchmarks to ensure the relevance and robustness of the TSR element.
The two comparator benchmarks are the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index and the following tailored group of international sector comparators: BASF, Carborundum, Ibiden, Imerys, Krosaki Harima, LyondellBasell, Magnesita, Mersen, Minerals Technologies, RHI, SGL Carbon, Sumitomo Chemical, Toyo Tanso, Worley Parsons, Vesuvius and Victrex.
British Polythene Industries has been removed from the comparator group following its acquisition by RPC Group.
Each TSR element will operate independently, with vesting determined based on Morgans TSR rank relative to constituents of each TSR benchmark.
The performance range for each element will remain median to upper quartile.
From 2017 Return on Invested Capital ROIC will be used rather than ROCE, as in previous cycles.
ROIC will include total intangible assets in the definition of capital employed.
The Board considers ROIC to be a more complete measure of value creation because it measures the efficiency of Morgans total capital base, rather than its operational capital base only.
The calculation will be based on a 12-month average asset value to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations in the year, and any goodwill write-offs that occur during the performance period will be added back to the capital base.
The EPS performance range remains unchanged to support the Groups strategy for sustainable long-term growth over the next three years whilst continuing to represent an appropriately demanding target.
For all three measures, awards will continue to vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum, with 25% of each element vesting at threshold.
For the 2017 LTIP cycle, and in response to shareholder feedback, executive Directors will be required to hold any vested 2017 LTIP awards for an additional two-year period.
Vested awards that are subject to the holding period will remain subject to clawback in line with our Policy, but will not be forfeitable on cessation of employment.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees The Chairmans and non-executive Directors fees were reviewed in December 2016.
The following fees will apply in 2017: Role 2016 fee pa 2017 fee pa Increase Chairman 178,500 182,100 2% Non-executive Director 47,000 47,940 2% Committee chairman additional fee 8,000 8,000 0% Senior Independent Director additional fee 8,000 8,000 0% Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from 2015 to 2016 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other UK-based employees over the same period.
The UK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the CEO is based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
Although similar remuneration principles apply across the wider Group, pay decisions for this subset are impacted by similar external market forces eg wage inflation, local practice with respect to the provision of benefits, etc.. CEO % change in 2016 vs 2015 for other 1 Elements of remuneration 2016 2015 % change employees Base salary received during the year 470,000 470,000 0% 1.7% Taxable benefits excluding pension 13,482 13,274 1.6% 6.9% Annual bonus 208,210 234,530 -11.2% 56.7% 1.
Pete Raby commenced employment on 1 August 2015.
The 2015 figures have been annualised.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 86 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Relative importance of spend on pay The graphs below show shareholder distributions ie dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, and the percentage change year on year.
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS TOTAL EMPLOYEE PAY EXPENDITURE m m 2016 31.4 2016 332.7 2015 31.4 2015 299.7 No change 11.0% change Total employee pay across the Group has increased by 11% to 332.7 million 2015: 299.7 million.
This increase was as a result of the decline in the value of sterling against other currencies, with much of the Groups businesses being denominated in non-sterling currencies.
Advisers Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its executive remuneration adviser and was retained during the most recent financial year.
In 2016, Kepler, now a brand of Mercer, provided independent advice on performance measurement, the setting of incentive targets, TSR analysis and the structure of long-term incentives, and provided market data in respect of senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees.
Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and does not provide any other material services to the Group nor does Keplers parent company, Mercer, and is considered to be independent.
Kepler is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
Fees paid during the year to advisers for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time and materials basis, were as follows: Adviser Fees incl.
VAT Kepler 54,550 Comparison of Company performance The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Morgan Advanced Materials plcs shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The FTSE 350 Index of which the Company is a constituent has been chosen because it is widely followed by the UKs investment community and easily tracked over time.
400 349 350 Morgan Advanced Materials plc 300 FTSE 350 Index 250 231 Data source: Bloomberg 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The table below details the CEOs single figure of remuneration over the same eight-year period.
F igure represents percentage achievement of maximum opportunity.
Bonus maximum as a % of salary increased to 150% of base salary in 2016 compared to 100% in previous years.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 87 Directors interests in shares Shares owned outright The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The shares held by each person who was a Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc as at 31 December 2016 together with shares held by their connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company: As at As at 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 As at 1 or date of joining or on leaving 23 February 2017 Executive Directors Pete Raby 10,928 11,230 41,438 2 Peter Turner 40,000 40,000 3 Kevin Dangerfield 289,933 289,933 n a 4 Andrew Hosty 138,368 138,368 n a Non-executive Directors Andrew Shilston 70,000 70,000 70,000 9 Douglas Caster 18,000 18,000 5 Victoire fide Margerie 2,000 2,000 n a 6,9 9 9 9 Helen Bunch 7, 9 9 9 9 Laurence Mulliez 8 Andrew Reynolds Smith 5,000 5,000 n a 9 Rob Rowley 5,000 5,000 1.
Peter Turner joined the Board on 11 April 2016.
Kevin Dangerfield stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2016.
Andrew Hosty stepped down from the Board on 8 January 2016.
Directors qualifying shareholding requirement removed when the Companys current Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Executive Directors shareholding guidelines The table below shows the shareholding of each executive Director against their respective shareholding guideline as at 31 December 2016 or date of leaving.
Shareholding Shares Shares Per formance - Shares subject Options Current guideline owned subject to tested but to BDSMP vested but shareholding Guideline 1 2 3 4 % 2016 salary outright performance unvested shares deferral unexercised % 2016 salary met?
2015 and 2016 LTIP and LTIP-CSOP awards.
Estimated net number of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMP.
Options granted under the Sharesave scheme for Pete Raby.
Based on an executive Directors 2016 salary and the share price at 31 December 2016, comprising shares owned outright and shares subject to deferral.
Pete Raby joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
His performance-tested but unvested share award relates to the recruitment share award made on 3 August 2015.
Unless otherwise stated, figures given in the tables on pages 88 to 90 are for shares or interests in shares.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 88 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued Pete Raby The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Performance Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release period 2015 127,543 127,543 344.98p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Subject to performance 2015 conditions Funding 8,696 8,696 344.98p 01.01.15 31.12.17 2016 292,022 292,022 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Performance Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release period Subject to performance 2015 conditions LTIP-CSOP 8,696 8,696 344.98p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Subject to continued 2016 service only Sharesave 3,862 3,862 233.00p 01.12.16 30.11.19 Recruitment award As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Performance Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release period 2015 1 Tranche 1 57,176 57,176 349.80p 286.85p Subject to continued service only 2015 Tranche 2 57,175 57,175 349.80p Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2016 As at 31 December 2016 2 2 259,286 555,170 1.
Tranche 1 of the recruitment award to Pete Raby was subsequently released on 3 January 2017.
I ncludes a funding award of 8,696 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP and therefore not transferable to Pete Raby.
1 Peter Turner The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 11 April during during during 31 December at date of on date Performance Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release period 2016 226,783 226,783 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 Subject to performance 2016 conditions Funding 12,426 12,426 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 11 April during during during 31 December at date of on date Performance Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release period Subject to performance 2016 conditions LTIP-CSOP 12,426 12,426 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 Total interests in share plans As at 11 April 2016 As at 31 December 2016 2 251,635 1.
I ncludes a funding award of 12,426 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP and therefore not transferable to Peter Turner.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 89 1 Kevin Dangerfield The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release Performance period 2013 100,147 100,147 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 No further performance 2013 conditions, lapsed Funding 1,981 1,981 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 2014 81,436 81,436 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 Subject to performance 2014 conditions Funding 7,232 7,232 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 2015 95,715 95,715 329.10p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release Performance period 2015 Investment 14,755 14,755 347.50p 237.70p 01.01.15 31.12.17 2015 Subject to performance Matching 44,325 44,325 347.50p conditions 2015 2 3 Dividends 538 538 Various 237.70p Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release Performance period No further performance 2013 LTIP conditions, lapsed CSOP 1,981 1,981 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 Subject to performance 2014 conditions LTIP-CSOP 7,232 7,232 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 Subject to continued 2014 service only Sharesave 3,515 3,515 256.00p 01.12.14 30.11.17 Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2016 As at 31 December 2016 4 358,339 1.
2. Dividend shares received on 2015 investment shares.
T he price used for BDSMP dividend shares is the closing price of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc ordinary share trading on the London Stock Exchange on the dividend payment date.
Includes a funding award of 9,213 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP and therefore not transferable to Kevin Dangerfield.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 90 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT continued 1 Andrew Hosty The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release Performance period 2013 101,233 101,233 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 No further performance 2013 conditions, lapsed Funding 10,750 10,750 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 2014 93,101 31,034 62,067 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 Subject to performance conditions 2015 95,715 63,810 31,905 329.10p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release Performance period 2013 Investment 7,474 7,474 286.40p 277.00p 01.01.13 31.12.15 No further performance 2013 conditions, lapsed Matching 22,422 22,422 286.40p 2013 2 3 Dividends 809 809 Various 277.00p Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date Status at 31 December 2016 Plan 2016 the year the year the year 2016 allocation of release Performance period No further performance 2013 conditions, lapsed LTIP-CSOP 10,750 10,750 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 Subject to continued 2014 service only Sharesave 2,812 2,812 256.00p 01.12.14 30.11.17 Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2016 As at 31 December 2016 4 344,257 96,784 1.
2. Dividend shares received on 2013 Investment shares.
Includes a funding award of 10,750 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP and therefore not transferable to Andrew Hosty.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 91 Details of plans LTIP Plan Details Awards granted to executive Directors in 2014 are subject to relative TSR, EPS and ROCE.
The EPS target applying to a third of each award requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold of 8% pa of that element to vest, commencing at 30% vesting for that element, and rising to full vesting for EPS growth of 15% pa or higher.
The TSR target applying to another third of each award requires Morgan Advanced Materials three-year TSR performance to rank at median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this Index.
The ROCE element has been set for a 3337% pa range, vesting on a straight-line basis, with 30% of the measure vesting at the 33% threshold.
ROCE is measured in the final year of the 2014 2016 performance period.
The 2015 awards were on the same basis as the 2014 awards described above, except that the EPS target range was 6% 15% pa and the ROCE target range was 27% 33% in the final year of the performance period.
The 2016 awards were on the same basis as the 2015 awards described above, except that the EPS target range was 4% 11% pa, the ROCE target remained at 27% 33% but with vesting at threshold for each element reduced from 30% to 25%.
The TSR element was extended to include two comparator groups as detailed earlier in this Report with vesting at threshold also reduced to 25% of that element.
Bonus Deferral Matching Plan Plan Details Deferral of bonus on a gross basis.
Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2015 are subject to three-year EPS growth.
The EPS target requires three-year EPS growth above a threshold of 8% pa before any matching, 12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match.
2015 There is straight-line vesting between these points.
There were no further awards made under the Bonus Deferral Matching Plan after 2015.
Share options Plan Details LTIP 2014: For the former CFO the award was structured as an Approved Performance Share Plan APSP and comprised three elements: i HMRC-approved options CSOP over shares to the value of up to 30,000 with an exercise price of 338.34 pence per share: ii an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares to the value of the remainder of the award above this limit: and iii a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such numbers of shares whose value at exercise at the approved option equals up to 30,000.
For the COO, the 2014 award was structured as an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
The provisions of these CSOP options, funding awards and LTIP awards was linked so that the maximum aggregate number LTIP CSOP of shares that could be acquired on exercise of LTIP and CSOP awards the funding award being used to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP was limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards equal to 100% of Kevin Dangerfields 2013 base salary.
Vested funding awards were not transferable to the participant.
LTIP 2015: The CEOs award was structured as an APSP, as described above.
Awards to other executive Directors were structured as an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
LTIP 2016: The CFOs award was structured as an APSP, as described above.
The award to the CEO was structured as an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
2014 Sharesave HMRC-approved all-employee Sharesave scheme.
Exercise price set at 20% discount to share price on date of grant.
2015 Sharesave Options vest after three years of continuous service and must be exercised within six months of vesting.
Details of options held by Directors under Sharesave are outlined in the individual Director shareholding tables above.
2016 Sharesave Other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 26 Related Parties to the financial statements.
This Report was approved by the Board on 23 February 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board DOUGLAS CASTER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
