Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration structure Shareholder consultation The table below sets out the key elements of the Companys The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors which was shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant approved at the 2015 AGM and will remain in force for another changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
In year until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The policy balances particular, the Committee consulted with a number of major the desire to align remuneration to the long-term success of shareholders in the formulation of the current Remuneration thebusiness and shareholders whilst also enabling the Policyto understand their views and to inform the Committees Company to effectively recruit and motivate key individuals.
The Committee believes that the feedback received has been crucial in the development of the structure which is in place.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors How element supports Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions andassessment Base salary To provide a competitive level of The salary of individual ExecutiveDirectors is paid monthly incash and is The Committees policy is to set base salary at an Not applicable.
salary as the main component of normallyreviewed annually.
appropriate leveltaking into account the factors outlined fixed remuneration.
In determining base salaries, theCommittee considers: Group to recruit andretain Executive The maximum annual salary increase will not normally pay levels at companies ofasimilar size and complexityinthe FTSE 250: Directors of the calibre required to exceedthe average increase which applies across the external market conditions: fulfil the roleand is key to developing widerworkforce.
However, larger increases may be awarded general performance of the Company: and implementing businessstrategy in certain circumstances including but not limited to: pay and conditions elsewhereinthe Group: and without paying morethan is individual performance, skills, experience in post andpotential.
increase in scope of responsibilities of the role: necessaryto do so.
to apply salary progression fora newly appointed When considering pay increases the Committee will use comparator Director:and groupsthatwill be based on groups of transport leisure and general sector where a Directors salary hasfallen significantly companiesof asimilar size.
The Committee retainsdiscretion to amend belowmarket position.
thecomparator groups as necessary in order to remain relevant.
In these circumstances, subsequent increases may be Any changes to the comparator group will be disclosed in thepartof the staged over a number of years until the target positioning report setting out theoperation of the policy forthefuture year.
and desired performance is reached.
In such circumstances, the increase will not exceed RPI 10%.
The Company will set out in the section headed Statement ofimplementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors see page 102.
PensionTo provide competitive benefits in Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension The Committees policy is that the maximum cash Not applicable.
related linewith market practice and provide provision in line with market practice.
allowancepayable inlieu of a pension will be 35%.
benefits funds to allow Executives to save The Group CEO receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 35% forretirement.
The Group FD receives a pension contribution or a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 25% of salary.
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and The cost to the Company of providing the benefits may vary Not applicable.
part of fixed remuneration in line lifeassurance cover 4x base salary, long-term sickness and disability from yearto year in accordance with market conditions and withmarket practice to enable the insurance, a cash alternative to a fully expensed car, free travel on the will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would Group to recruit and retain talent.
Companys services and professional membership subscriptions.
be paid in the form of benefits during the policy period.
The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove benefits in order to remain competitive or to meetthe needs of the business, for example to provide relocation expenses, including financial tax and legal advice ifapplicable.
Any change to benefit provision will be detailed on an annual basis.
106 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In addition to the components described below, it is the policy of the Company to honour any commitments made to a Director before this policy took effect or before he she became a Director.
Such commitments include the Group Chief Executives unfunded pension arrangement, which ceased to accrue from 5 June 2016, and his Five-Year Award, both of which are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 107 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued How element supports Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions andassessment PerformanceTo incentivise delivery of performance Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate Maximum 200% of base salary.
The targets for the bonus in respect of 2017 are as follows: related bonus objectives which aredirectly linked financial and non-financial objectives over a one-year performance period.
75% bonus is subject to normalised profit andfree cash flow targets tothe financial and strategic A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral into 25% is subject to non-financial targets prioritiesofthe business.
shares for one year from award as follows: The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to A portion of bonus is deferred 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary amend the weightings ofthe financial and non-financial elements of intoshares, assisting retention 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary the bonus from year to year and for each Executive as appropriate.
ofExecutive Directors and 75% of the bonus earned above 150% of salary applicable to Group The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to aligningtheir financial interests CEOonly profit and or cash generation, are set on an annual basis and are withthose ofshareholders.
Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assumenotional re-investment intended to be achievable at threshold and stretching at maximum.
The numerical values of the target will not be disclosed in advance asthe Committee considers this information commercially sensitive.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to standardise the Actual targets, performance achieved and awards will be published percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is deemed appropriate atthe end of the performance period in order that shareholders can inthe future.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price fully assess the basis for any payouts under the annual bonus.
pershare on the date of the award willbe calculated on the basis of the average market price share inthe five days preceding the dateof the grant.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the year.
The non-financial targets include safety, Bonus payments are paid following year end and are not pensionable.
customer, operational excellence and people objectives and will Only the Executive Directors currently participate in the Companys bonus bedetermined by the Committee on an annual basis.
Other employees may be invited to participate in of the bonus determined by performance against non-financial targets future years at the Committees discretion.
will only become payable when the Company achieves a threshold Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial Committee has determined that there has been an improvement in results upon which thebonus was awarded within a two-year period safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year in the followingthe deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the bonus relevant business unit before any bonus is paid.
thatwould be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to which For further details on the measures and targets which applied to the original bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication bonuses in 2016, please see page 93. ofcorrected results.
The annual bonus contains malus and clawback provisions.
Long-Term To drive performance, aid retention Performance Share Awards in the form of conditional awards, nil cost The Group CEO is eligible to receive a conditional award Awards will be subject to stretching performance targets over a Incentive and align the interests of Executive options or forfeitable shares are granted annually and vesting is ofPerformance Shares up to an equivalent of 200% of periodof three years.
dependenton the achievement of performance conditions measured salaryper annum.
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or Performance overathree-year period.
Shares The performance conditions The Group FD is eligible to receive a conditional award of usedifferent measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
arealigned with the long-term An additional two-year holding period has been introduced to increase alignment Performance Shares up to an equivalent of 150% of base Nomaterialchange will be made to the type of performance performance of the business, with shareholders.
Dividend equivalents can be paid on these shares.
conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
therebydriving participants to Awards are reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria For 2017, the awards will be based equally as follows: achieveoutcomes that realise and other features remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances.
1 3 earnings per share EPS shareholder value.
Malus and clawback provisions are attached to awards made under the LTIP 1 3 return on capital employed ROCE which apply over a two-year period post vesting.
1 3 total shareholder return split between 50% FTSE 250 comparator group and 50% competitors TSR.
Achievement of threshold performance in respect of the EPS and TSRtargets results in 30% vesting for each part of the Award.
Achievement of threshold performance in respect of the ROCE targetresults in 0% vesting.
There is no ability to retest any of the performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amendexisting performance conditions to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fairmeasure of the Companys performance over the period.
Shareholding Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period which commenced from 2015. requirement The requirement for the Group CEO is equivalent to 200% of salary and for the Group FD the requirement is 150% ofbase salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closelyaligned.
108 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How element supports Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions andassessment PerformanceTo incentivise delivery of performance Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate Maximum 200% of base salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 109 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2016 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions andassessment Long-Term To drive performance, aid retention and Executive Directors are eligible to receive Matching Shares that are The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% of Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
The remaining half Incentive align the interests of Executive Directors based ona personal investment in National Express Group PLC shares basesalary.
willbe subject to the relative shareholder return TSR of the Plan with shareholders.
funded either through using an annual bonus award to purchase shares Company measured against an appropriate group of companies.
Matching or through the pledging of shares held not already allocated to the LTIP.
Shares Participants only receive Matching Shares Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting for Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four Matching Shares subject to investing into thebusiness and eachpart of the award.
being awarded based on the value of the investment for each National therefore this mechanism adds an element There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
Express share pledged or purchased.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance criteria The performance conditions are aligned with amendexisting performance conditions to take account of any events andotherfeatures remain appropriate to the Companys current the long-term performance of the business, that may arise which would mean, in its opinion, if such adjustments circumstances, and to ensure that there are no features of the plans thereby driving participants to achieve were not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair thatcould inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
measure of the Companys EPS or TSR growth over the period.
LTIP performance conditions for the National Express Group PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP EPS, TSR and ROCE were chosen for the 2015 LTIP as appropriate measures of the Groups long term performance.
The table below summarises the rationale for the inclusion of these measures in the 2015 LTIP.
Measure Rationale for performance measure EPS Important growth measure considered within the Company and a driver of shareholder value Provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging the financial performance of the Company Ensures the annual profit performance targeted by the annual bonus plan flows through to long-term sustainable EPSgrowth The Company calculates performance against this measure by reference to the earnings per share figures reported inthe Companys audited accounts TSR Improves Shareholder alignment Consistent with the Companys objective of providing superior long-term returns to shareholders ROCE Added to the 2015 LTIP Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is operating with the resources available.
If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life of the Remuneration Policy, it will inform shareholders of the changes made and the reason for making any change.
On a change of control, Performance Shares will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate.
Thenumber or class of shares under award may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
Comparison with approach to remuneration across the Group National Express Group operates internationally and accordingly, the remuneration policy for employees generally reflects the legislative and labour market requirements in each separate jurisdiction.
The Group will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas, offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each labour market in which we operate.
Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in each relevant labour market and performance-related pay arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and individual goals, objectively assessed.
Other than for a small number of senior Executives in each business unit, long-term incentive plans are only applicable at Executive Director level.
Approach to recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors In the event that the Company recruits a new Executive Director either from within the organisation or externally, when determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to recruit an Executive of the required calibre.
The Committees policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling service contracts with a notice period of 12 months, unless on an exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, when a longer initial period reducing to 12 months may be used.
The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration of any new Executive Director following the same principles as for the current Executive Directors set out in the table above.
110 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2016 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions andassessment Long-Term To drive performance, aid retention and Executive Directors are eligible to receive Matching Shares that are The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% of Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
The elements that would be considered by the Company for inclusion in the remuneration package for a new Director are: salary and benefits including defined contribution pension participation or a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision: participation in the performance-related bonus pro-rated for the year of recruitment to reflect the proportion of the year for whichthe new recruit was in post maximum of 200% of salary.
If the commencement date is after 1 September in the year, noaward would normally be made for that year: participation in the LTIP.
The Performance Shares granted will be in line with the grant levels for that grade.
In the case of theappointment of a new Group Chief Executive, this grant would be a maximum of 200% and for any other position a grantof150%would be made.
The grant may be pro-rated depending on the time of appointment through the year: and costs relating to but not limited to relocation: London allowance: legal, financial, tax and visa advice: and pre-employment medicalchecks.
The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee would take into account both market practice and any relevant commercial factors in considering whether any enhanced and or one-off annual incentive or long-term incentive award was necessary.
Awards made by way of compensation for forfeited awards would be made on a comparable basis, taking account of performance achieved or likely to be achieved, the proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of the award.
Compensation could be in cash or shares.
In the event of recruitment or retention other than buy-out awards as described above, the Committee may also grant awards to anew or existing Executive Director under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 up to an equivalent of 200% of salary per annum.
The Remuneration Committee does not currently intend to exercise this discretion to grant total awards in excess of 200% of salary and is committed tofully disclose the nature and reasons for any such discretion used in future.
Executive Directors The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Executive Directors service contracts and notice periods Director Contract date Notice period from the Company Notice period from the Director Dean Finch 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months Matthew Ashley 16 July 2015 12 months 6 months The service contract of Dean Finch, which is a rolling contract, contains a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to payan amount on termination of employment equal to one years salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
TheDirector will not be obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice.
The Company will use the payment inlieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought tobe in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Director justify their use.
The service contracts for the current Executive Directors are available to view on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on Executive remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders.
Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors contractual provisions.
The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return.
The benefits under the unfunded pension arrangement ceased to accrue with effect from 5 June 2016.
The pension normally becomes payable, at the earliest, on 1 April 2022.
All or part ofit may be paid as a lump sum.
Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 111 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors external appointments Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Details of the fee received by the Group Chief Executive in 2016 are shown below.
Dean Finch resigned from this Non-executive directorship with effect from 31 May 2016.
Director Fee External appointment Dean Finch 6,240 Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust Executive Directors termination payments The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary, benefits and pension which may be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
The table below sets out the treatment of other elements of remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whose service with National Express terminates: Salary and Performance-related Unvested Deferred Unvested Long-Term Reason for termination contractual benefits bonus awards Bonus awards Incentive Plan awards Other Retirement, Payment equal to Bonus awarded Award vests Awards vest on the date of Fees for disability, theaggregate of subject to onthe date of cessation of employment, outplacement redundancy, death, thebasic salary satisfaction of cessation of unless the Remuneration andlegal advice sale of part of andthe value of performance employment.
Committee determines may be paid.
Company that anycontractual targets for itshould vest at normal employs participant, benefits for the therelevant vesting date.
or any other notice period financialyear.
The amount of award reasonthat the including any vesting will be subject Remuneration accrued but tothe satisfaction of Committee decides.
performance conditions as at the date the award isdeemed to vest.
Awards will normally be reduced time pro rata toreflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment.
Other reasons Paid to date No award for year Award lapses Awards lapse in full on 1. oncessation of leaving employment.
oftermination, oftermination including any employment.
accrued but untaken holiday pay.
1 P ursuant to Dean Finchs service contract dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by theExecutive such as gross misconduct, he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated up to the termination date from the commencement of the relevant bonus year in which termination takes place.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee in its discretion may treat the individual as an approved leaver ie under the first section in the table above.
The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company performance and the specific circumstances of the Executives departure, including but not restricted towhether the Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with the Company.
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether awards in respect of approved leavers should be pro-rated to reflect the service completed.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
112 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors appointments The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company and do not participate in the Groups pension scheme, annual bonus scheme or long-term incentive schemes.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can be terminated either by them or the Company on one months written notice.
It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive Director to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms.
The letters of appointment for the current Non-Executive Directors can be found on the Companys website, www.
Non-Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors are required to stand for election or re-election by shareholders each year.
The original appointment dates of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
The remuneration of any new Non-Executive Director will be determined following the same principles as for the current Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors appointment dates Director Date of appointment Notice period by either Company or Director Sir John Armitt CBE 1 January 2013 3 months Joaqun Ayuso 1 June 2011 1 month Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 0 months Chris Muntwyler 11 May 2011 1 month Lee Sander 1 June 2011 1 month Jane Kingston 26 February 2014 1 month Matthew Crummack 6 May 2015 1 month Mike McKeon 3 July 2015 1 month Dr Ashley Steel 1 January 2016 1 month Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value NonTo attract and retain The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by theBoardas The Committees policy Executive fees persons of asuitable a whole and those of the Chairman are set bythe Remuneration isto set base fees at an calibre for a group of Committee.
The fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals appropriate level taking thissize and to pay normally once everyyear.
The review takes account of fees into account the factors feeswhichare reflective paid for similar positions in the market, the time commitment outlined in this table.
ofresponsibilities, required from the Director estimated to be 60 days per year for competitive withpeer the Chairman and 20 days per year for the other Non-Executive companies without Directors and any additional responsibilities undertaken, such paying more than is as acting as Chairman to one of the Board Committees or necessary.
fulfillingthe role of Senior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in long-term incentive arrangements.
A travel allowance may be paid to Non-Executive Directors forattendance at Board meetings held outside the continent inwhich the Non-Executive Director is resident.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Group operates across a number of countries and accordingly sets terms and conditions for employees which reflect the different legislative and labour market conditions that operate in each of our jurisdictions.
We set Global People Standards to provide a framework for recognition and rewards internationally.
We will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas.
Pay arrangements in our businesses also reflect local performance with personal increases based on achievement, individually assessed.
National Express believes in the value of continuous improvement, both for the individual andfor the Company.
The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into account business unit performance, including both financial performance and safety improvements in the year.
Because of the wide variety in labour market conditions and inexchange rate movements, pay rates locally are not normally considered when considering Executive Director base pay reviews.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of the Senior Management Group.
LTIP awards are cascaded downbelow Executive Director level to the Senior Management Group, aligning the senior team to deliver value for the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 113
