106 | Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy This sets out the remuneration policy the Policy for the Peer group Board which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 For the purposes of benchmarking appropriate compensation, Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2015 and took the committee currently regards the following companies effectfrom this point.
Whilst we do not envisage making asthe most relevant peer group for Nostrum: anychanges to our policy prior to the Companys 2018 FTSE 250 companies of a similar size to Nostrum.
Annual General Meeting, we conduct annual reviews to Oil and gas E&P companies globally which compete for ensure that it continues to support the strategy of the scarce skills within the industry.
If we feel it is necessary to make a change to our Companies operating predominantly in the FSU which policy prior to the end of this three year period we will seek compete for expatriate and local staff.
Risk management No changes have been made to our remuneration policy The committee will review incentive arrangements regularly since the 2015 Annual General Meeting and the policy has to ensure that they comply with the risk management been included in full below as set out in the 2014 Annual systems, and that controls are operating effectively.
Thecommittee also ensures that inappropriate operational orfinancial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded Policy coverage through the Companys remuneration policies.
Instead, This policy applies automatically to the following: 1 asensible balance will be struck between fixed and variable allexecutive directors of the Company and the company pay, shortand long-term incentives and cash and equity.
secretary, 2 any other senior members of the executive management of the Group, 3 any other member of the The committee has access to the Audit Committee and executive management of the Group as may be required senior executive management as and when required to bythe Board, and 4 any grant of shares, options or similar discuss any matters of risk assessment.
securities or rights relating to more than 10,000 Company shares.
Nostrum operates in an industry that is inherently subject tooperational risks.
Particular emphasis is therefore placed Policy objectives on ensuring that health and safety best practice is reinforced This policy is designed to: by this policy.
The committee consults regularly to ensure 1.
Provide a structure and level of pay that attracts and retains thatthis is the case.
high calibre directors, managers and employees capable of delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
Provide clear and transparent performance incentives in The committee will periodically review whether this policy is amanner that is consistent with best practice and aligned operating appropriately.
Any actions arising from this review with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
will be assigned to an appropriate person with a deadline 3.
Align the remuneration of executives and senior managers toreport back to the committee.
The level and structure with the interests of the Companys shareholders, and ofthecompensation system will also be reviewed annually ensure that rewards are justified by performance.
Ensure that the pay of the executive directors and senior members of the executive management takes into account: The remuneration policy table i pay and conditions throughout the Company: and The table on page 107 sets out the key components of the ii corporate governance best practice including health reward package for executive directors.
&safety, environmental, social and governance risks.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 107 Executive directors remuneration policy table Element of pay Purpose and Maximum Operation Performance criteria link to strategy opportunity To provide There is no prescribed Base salary is reviewed annually None Base pay market-competitive maximum annual andfixed for 12months.
The committee takes into account remuneration levels at peer group companies together with the performance of the Company and each individuals personal contribution.
To reflect market The aggregate value Benefits include: None Benefits practice and ofsuch benefits should medical providedin line with notconstitute a life insurance peer companies.
significant proportion permanent health insurance ofany employees long-term disability or income compensation.
protection insurance a company car is provided to theCEO.
Executive directors In general, maximum The annual bonus is determined Good performance as Annual may be eligible for an opportunity of 40% of byreference to performance in the determined at the Boards annual cash bonus for base salary prior calendar year.
Annual bonuses are generally paid In exercising its discretion as determined at the Any larger bonus in cash in August of each year.
willbe set based on therehas been good specific medium-term performance by executive objectives that have directors the Board shall been agreed in have regard primarily to advance by the theextent to which the committee.
performance target set by the Board for such executive directors have been achieved.
Targets for bonuses are those to which individuals can personally contribute bystrong performance andare not based on macro variables such as market cap, oil prices, etc.
that arenot within the control ofindividuals.
The Board places Share awards will only Elian Employee Benefit Trustee None Phantom great importance on bemade on the basis Limited administers the Plan and minimising dilution of ofachieving concrete isresponsible for granting rights share option existing shareholders.
long-term objectives under the Plan.
Share awards will defined in advance by Each right entitles holders to plan therefore only be the committee.
Share receive, on exercise, a cash amount made to senior awards will vest over equal to the excess of the market management who several years.
value on the exercise date of the areable to make a ordinary shares of the Company material contribution towhich it relates over a base value to shareholder value set at the date of grant.
that substantially All executive directors of the exceeds the value Company are eligible to participate ofany share awards in the Plan at the discretion of the made.
Awards vest on the basis described in the notes on the following page.
Long-term objectives are to be reviewed at every committee meeting to ensure that they are appropriate, relevant and rigorous.
Share awards made in future may bereduced at any time prior to vesting, at the discretion of the committee, following events such as but not restricted to a material misstatement of results, failure of risk management, breach of health and safety regulations or serious reputational damage to the Company.
Not currently n a n a None Pensions provided.
Aligns interests of Executive directors are The committee monitors the holdings None Shareholding executive directors encouraged to maintain of executive directors.
with those of a holding in the shareholders.
Company to align their interests with shareholders.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 108 | Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy Phantom share option plan According to the policy of the Board, benefits are not The Company operates the Plan in accordance with the expected to be a significant component of remuneration.
Planrules, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and In2015, only Mr Kessel is expected to receive benefit payments Transparency Rules and other applicable rules.
Benefits are not paid to Mr Monstrey and Mr Muller.
toretain talent, options are generally granted in tranches Instead, Mr Monstrey and Mr Muller are paid a base salary exercisable at the following times: out of which they may arrange any benefits themselves.
as to 20% of the ordinary shares in respect of which an The bar charts below do not include any amounts in relation option is granted, from the first anniversary of the date to the Phantom Share Option Plan because: ofgrant: as to a further 20% of the ordinary shares in respect of i as at the time of this Annual Report the Board is not able which an option is granted, from the second anniversary todetermine whether any options will be issued under the ofthe date of grant: Phantom Share Option Plan in 2015 as described in the as to a further 20% of the ordinary shares in respect of Directors remuneration policy, option awards will only be which an option is granted, from the third anniversary made on the basis of achieving concrete long-term objectives ofthedate of grant: defined in advance by the committee and will vest over as to a further 20% of the ordinary shares in respect of several years : and which an option is granted, from the fourth anniversary ii as at the date of this Annual Report, any options vesting ofthe date of grant: and in2015 in respect of awards made from prior years would not as to the remaining 20% of the ordinary shares in respect generate proceeds to the executive directors at the current ofwhich an option is granted from the fifth anniversary share price.
Kai-Uwe Kessel, Chief Executive O cer The Board retains discretion over a number of areas relating amounts in USD thousand to the operation and administration of the Plan, which 1,600 include, but are not limited to: i who participates: ii the 1,350 1% timing of the grant of award: and iii the size of the award.
1,207 1,400 1% 28% 1,200 968 Treatment of existing arrangement 20% 1% 1,000 For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the 71% 99% 79% Company to honour any commitments entered into with 800 current or former directors notwithstanding the approval 600 ofthe Policy.
This will last until the existing incentives vest orlapse or the benefits of any contractual arrangements 400 nolonger apply.
200 0 Remuneration scenarios for executive directors Minimum On target Maximum The bar charts below provide estimates of the potential Salary Bonus Benets remuneration of the executive directors for 2015 and therefore do not reflect the latest remuneration information.
Frank Monstrey, Chairman of the Board Three scenarios are presented for each executive director: amounts in USD thousand i minimum remuneration, reflecting no bonus award: ii on target remuneration, where the Boards expectations 1,600 for the executive directors performance have been met and 1,400 1,275 a bonus of 25% of base salary is awarded: and iii maximum 1,138 29% 1,200 remuneration, where the Boards expectations for good 20% performance by the executive director have been exceeded 911 1,000 and a bonus of 40% of base salary is awarded.
At present, 80% 100% 71% 800 theexecutive directors do not receive any pension or any 600 long-term compensation.
400 200 0 Minimum On target Maximum Salary Bonus Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 109 1 The need, in order to recruit the best candidates, for the Jan-Ru Muller, Chief Financial O cer Company to offer forms of sign-on remuneration the amounts in USD thousand necessity and level of which will depend on circumstances.
1,600 Where an individual is relocating in order to take up 1,400 arole, the Company may provide certain one-off benefits including, but not limited to, reasonable relocation 1,200 expenses, accommodation, housing allowance and 1,000 assistance with visa applications.
790 800 705 29% 564 In making any decisions on remuneration for new joiners 20% 600 thecommittee will endeavour to balance the expectations of 71% 100% 80% 400 shareholders with current market and corporate governance best practice and the requirements of any new joiner and 200 would strive to pay no more than is necessary to attract the 0 Minimum On target Maximum right talent to the role.
Salary Bonus Service agreements Summary details of each directors service agreement are Recruitment asfollows: The committee expects any new executive directors to be engaged on terms that are consistent with this Policy but the Service Salary as at committee acknowledges that it cannot always predict the agreement 1 January 2015 circumstances under which any new executive director may date USD be recruited and so accordingly, in each case, the committee Frank Monstrey 19 May 2014 911,216 will consider: Kai-Uwe Kessel 19 May 2014 955,996 1 2 The objective of attracting, motivating and retaining the Jan-Ru Muller 19 May 2014 564,409 highest calibre directors in a manner that is consistent with 1 Mr Muller resigned as Chief Financial Officer effective 1 September 2016 and best practice and aligned with the interests of the was replaced by Tom Richardson.
2 The executive directors are remunerated in EUR: the EUR amounts have been converted to USD using the 2014 average EUR USD exchange rate 1.33.
Salary, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives will be determined within the framework of the remuneration The appointment of each of the executive directors continues policy table on page 107. until the Companys Annual General Meeting and their Where an individual would be forfeiting valuable ongoing appointment is subject to being re-elected as a remuneration in order to join the Company, the need director at each subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Each toretain flexibility should be considered in order for the executive director may be required to resign at any time in committee to be able to set base salary at a level necessary accordance with the Companys Articles or for any regulatory to facilitate the hiring of the highest calibre candidates reason such as the revocation of any approvals required from including awards or payments to compensate for the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Company may remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous lawfully terminate the executive directors employment in employer.
The committee would require reasonable thefollowing ways: evidence of the nature and value of any forfeited compensation and would, to the extent practicable, ensure at any time upon 12 months written notice: any compensation awarded was no more valuable than without notice in circumstances where the Company theforfeited award.
isentitled to terminate for cause.
Judgement will be exercised to determine the appropriate measure of compensation for any forfeited award by taking The lawful termination mechanisms described above are account of relevant factors such as the value of any lost without prejudice to the employers ability in appropriate award, performance conditions and the time over which circumstances to terminate in breach of the notice period they would have vested or been paid.
referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages to Where an existing employee of the Company is promoted the executive director.
to the Board, the Company will honour any commitment toremuneration made in respect of a prior role including any outstanding awards of options under the Plan.
1 Mr Muller resigned as Chief Financial Officer effective 1 September 2016 and was replaced by Tom Richardson.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 110 | Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy The executive directors are not permitted to take up any office or employment with, or have any direct or indirect interest in any firm or company which is in direct or indirect competition with the Company or any other member of the Group or any company in which any member of the Group has an interest, without the consent of the Board.
In addition, the executive directors are subject to certain restrictive covenants in their service agreements relating to share dealings and non-competition and non-solicitation covenants in relation to relevant Group companies for six months from thedate of termination of the relevant executives service contract.
Copies of the executive directors service agreements and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are available forinspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Payments for departing executive directors Provision Policy Notice period and compensation for loss of 12 months notice from the Company to the executive director.
office in service contracts Up to 12 months base salary in line with notice period.
Notice period payments will either be made as normal if the executive director continues to work during the notice period or is on gardening leave orthey will be made as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject to mitigation if alternative employment is found.
Treatment of annual bonus on termination No entitlement.
Treatment of unvested share option awards An executive directors award will generally lapse to the extent they have not vested on the date of voluntary cessation of employment and any portion that remains outstanding but unexercised after 12 months following such cessation will lapse.
In particular circumstances, an arrangement may be agreed to facilitate the exit of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made bearing in mind the desire to minimise costs for the Group and only in circumstances where itisconsidered in the best interests of shareholders.
Non-executive directors remuneration policy table Fee structure Approach to setting fees Other remuneration Non-executive directors receive The Chairman of the Board and the Business expenses incurred in afixed annual fee for their executive directors determine the respect of the performance of a directorship.
remuneration of all non-executive non-executive directors duties will directors, including members of be reimbursed by the Company.
Additional annual fees are payable thecommittees.
Such expenses could include travel to any director who serves as senior between the home and office or independent director or as a Board between the home and the location committee chairman.
of a Board or committee meeting.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
1 Except for Mrs Van Hecke who was appointed on 31 December 2016.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 111 Non-executive directors The Chairman and executive directors set the remuneration package for non-executive directors in line with the non-executive directors remuneration policy table and subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
Non-executive director appointment letters 1 All non-executive directors of the Company were appointed on 19 May 2014.
The Company intends to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and accordingly all directors will stand for re-election by shareholders at future Annual General Meetings until the Board determines otherwise.
Each appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to being re-elected at each Annual General Meeting, save that anon-executive director or the Company may terminate the appointment at any time upon one months written notice, orthata non-executive director may be required to resign at any time in accordance with the Articles of the Company, the UKCorporate Governance Code or for any regulatory reason such as the revocation of approvals required from the FCA.
Each of the non-executive directors is entitled to an annual fee paid quarterly and to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
There is no entitlement for non-executive directors to participate in the Plan.
The non-executive directors are not permitted to take up any office or employment with, or have any direct or indirect interest in any firm or company that is in direct or indirect competition with the Company without the consent of the Board.
Upon termination of the appointment and where such termination is for any reason other than due to the non-executive directors gross misconduct, material breach of the terms of the appointment, act of fraud or dishonesty or wilful neglect of the nonexecutive directors duties, the non-executive director will be paid a pro rated amount of their fees in respect of the period between the beginning of the quarter in which termination took place and the termination date.
Otherwise none of the non-executive directors are entitled to any damages for loss of office and no fee shall be payable in respect of any unexpired portion of the term of the appointment.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company We have not consulted with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
However, when determining the policy for executive directors we have been mindful of the pay and employment conditions of employees across the Group as a whole.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views Senior executive management of the Company regularly meets with shareholders and solicits their views on the Companys policies in relation to director and executive remuneration, and takes such views into account when formulating remuneration policies and remuneration levels in specific cases.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
