Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 80 The Remuneration Committees work also included monitoring and considering the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee.
Ultimate decision-making responsibility for the remuneration of the Management Committee lies with the Chief Executive Officer.
This approach still gives the Remuneration Committee necessary visibility of senior management remuneration to enable it to formulate appropriate policy and make decisions regarding Executive Director remuneration, but allows the Chief Executive Officer, who is best placed to make remuneration decisions about the management team, the flexibility to do so.
The Remuneration Committee believes this practice is beneficial to the Company and supports the Code principle D. 2.
The Remuneration Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference during the period, which did not result in any changes.
In addition to the activities of the Remuneration Committee, the Executive Directors and the Chairman reviewed the remuneration arrangements of the Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Policy Report Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Companys policy for the remuneration of its Directors.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the new Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 3 May 2017 and it will, if approved, apply to payments made from this date.
Until that time the 2014 Policy will continue to apply.
The new 2017 Policy is intended to apply for a period of three years from the AGM.
A copy of the 2014 Policy can be found in the Companys 2015 annual report on www.
Proposed Policy for Director Remuneration During the period, the Remuneration Committee carried out a thorough review of the current remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that there were few parts of the existing remuneration policy that required change and it adhered to the remuneration principles outlined below and that it remained relevant and appropriate in incentivising management to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
However, in order to bring the Directors remuneration policy further in line with governance best practice and with the expectations of shareholders and representative investor bodies, two main changes are proposed.
The proposed changes are set out in the table below, together with an explanation for such proposed changes.
Element of remuneration policy Proposed 2017 Policy 2014 Policy LTIP holding period Introduction of an additional holding period of two years or No additional holding period after completion of three-year longer if the Remuneration Committee determines from the performance period.
third anniversary of the date of grant.
This change helps increase alignment between the interests of executives and long-term shareholders and further balance the shorter-term focus of the annual bonus.
Shareholding requirement Introduction of an increased level of expected shareholding Minimum holding of 150% of base salary for the Chief to 200% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
Executive Officer and 100% for other Executive Directors.
Change to allow the minimum shareholding to be met over The holding can be built up over three years from five years from the date of Director appointment.
Taken together, the Remuneration Committee believe that these changes help to increase alignment between the Groups management and its shareholders.
The 2017 Policy continues to support the long-term success of the business and ensure that the Groups management are driving sustainable shareholder value in the long-term.
No changes are proposed for the remuneration policy for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Principles for Senior Executives The Directors Remuneration Policy is underpinned by the following remuneration principles: Support long-term success of the business and sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Be aligned to the business strategy and achievement of planned business goals.
Be compatible with the Groups risk policies and systems.
Link maximum payout to outstanding results.
Ensure that performance-related pay constitutes a significant proportion of the overall package.
Provide a balance between attracting, retaining and motivating the right calibre of candidates, and taking into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Directors Remuneration Report 81 Link with Strategy The key objective to be achieved through the Directors Remuneration Policy is to support the Groups main strategic objectives of expansion and high growth.
The AIP, the LTIP and the GIP contain specific performance measures designed to support the objectives of accelerating retail business performance in the A A short and medium-term for example, EBITDA and Gross Sales Retail targets and the objectives of creating long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value for example, key strategic targets concerning the efficiency of the nascent platform business.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, outlined on the following pages, provides the detailed structure of each element of remuneration and how each element is determined.
The remuneration package of the Executive Directors is made up of elements of fixed and variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the weighting of fixed and variable pay and balance of shortand long-term awards, and sought to position a larger proportion of the remuneration package as equity-based and performance related in order to support the Companys strategic objectives of high growth and expansion and to create shareholder alignment.
The balance of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out at Illustration of Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 95 and 96.
The holding period in the LTIP, the share deferral provision in the AIP, the minimum shareholding requirements and the GIPs five-year performance period all help ensure a longer-term focus for the business from the Executive Directors.
Reflects the value of the individual, their role, skills, experience taking into account Base Fixed Salary appropriate market data and contribution to the business Benefits Aligned with all other employee arrangements Pension Provides an appropriate level of retirement benefits Annual Incentive Incentivises achievement of annual objectives Plan Deferred Aligns Director and shareholder interests by delivering Bonus bonus payments in deferred shares Under AIP LongTerm Incentivises generation of long-term shareholder value Incentives One-Off Motivates key individuals to achieve specific long-term Variable Plans targets and exceptional levels of performance See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 82 Remuneration Committee Discretion and Judgement In formulating the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee has sought to allow it sufficient operational flexibility over Director remuneration for the next three years.
While the policy provides the boundaries for remuneration arrangements, the policy is intended to provide some isolated discretion for the Remuneration Committee to use in various circumstances relating to particular components of remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Policy does not provide for the exercise of discretion over any aspect of the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may not use any discretion outside the policy without separate shareholder approval.
The Remuneration Committee operates the share schemes according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and other rules and regulations, where relevant.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
The discretions include, but are not limited to, those set out in the table below.
Area of Discretion AIP LTIP JSOS GIP The participants Y Y Y Y The timing of grant of an award or payment Y Y Y Y The size of an award up to a predetermined maximum Y Y Y Y The determination of vesting, holding periods or payment Y Y N Y Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Y Y Y Y Group Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the Y Y Y Y appropriate treatment chosen Adjustments required in certain circumstances for example, rights issues, corporate Y Y Y Y restructuring events and dividends Adjust or change the performance conditions if anything happens which causes the Y Y N Y Remuneration Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate for example, Board approved strategic initiative or transaction provided that any changed performance condition will be equally difficult to satisfy as the original condition would have been had such circumstances not arisen The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets from year Y Y Y N to year Adjustment to level of payments or formulaic scheme outcomes both upwards and Y Y N N downwards including to ensure the scheme outcomes reflect individual or Company performance over the performance period, or to take account of unforeseen 1 circumstances outside the Companys control Application of malus and clawback Y Y N Y 1.
Under the 2014 Policy the Remuneration Committee did not have explicit discretion to make payment adjustments under the LTIP in such circumstances.
Allowing the Remuneration Committee such discretion will help it ensure that the payments under the LTIP reflect actual Group performance if this is different from the formulaic outcomes from LTIP performance measures.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys ESOS, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the other relevant rules and regulations.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee may also apply judgement or a qualitative assessment, for example in assessing achievement against role specific objectives under the AIP.
Development of Directors Remuneration Policy Shareholder Context The Remuneration Committee did not formally consult shareholders on the Directors Remuneration Policy on the basis that the minor changes to the policy were to the benefit of shareholders such as introducing a LTIP holding period and there were no changes to the overall structure or elements of remuneration for the Directors.
Shareholders were notified of, and given the opportunity to discuss, the changes to the policy with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has previously consulted shareholders on various incentive arrangements and the current policies and had used these consultations to inform its view that there is good alignment between the Directors Remuneration Policy and shareholder interests.
com Directors Remuneration Report 83 Employee Context The Remuneration Committee receives an annual report from management on Group-wide remuneration.
This review covers changes to pay, benefits, pension and share schemes for all employees in the Group, including the percentage increases in base pay for monthly and hourly paid employees.
The Remuneration Committees work includes monitoring and commenting on the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee in relation to various changes to base pay and incentive plans.
This provides some of the context for the Remuneration Committees decisions concerning changes to base pay and other elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
However, the Remuneration Committee did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy, nor take into account any remuneration comparison measurements.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is designed in line with the remuneration principles outlined on page 80, which reflect the remuneration principles for the Group.
A key remuneration principle for the Group is that share awards be used to recognise and reward good performance and attract and retain employees.
This is reflected by the issue of awards of free shares and options to all employees under the SIP and the ESOS schemes, which allows all employees an opportunity to share in the Groups success via share ownership.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below Board level reflect the seniority of the role.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees differ from the remuneration framework for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for certain groups of employees, but has not adopted a universal approach to these elements of remuneration for all employees.
Remuneration Policy Table: Elements of Director Remuneration The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors, their purposes and links to strategy, the maximum opportunity and any performance conditions.
In addition, where relevant, the changes proposed to the policy for each element of remuneration and the rationale behind these changes.
Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Fixed pay Base pay Paid monthly in cash.
To avoid setting the No contractual To attract and retain the expectations of Executive provisions for Reviewed annually by the right calibre of senior Directors and other clawback or malus.
Remuneration Committee, with executive required to employees, no maximum any changes normally becoming support the long-term salary is set under the policy.
effective in April each year or interests of the business.
Normally, maximum salary may be reviewed ad hoc where increases for Executive there is a significant change of Directors will be within the responsibilities.
normal percentage range and guidelines that are The review takes into account a applied to the UK-based number of factors including: the monthly paid employees of Groups annual review process, the Company in that year.
business performance, total remuneration, appropriate market Where appropriate and data for comparable roles for necessary, larger increases companies of equivalent size and may be awarded in complexity in similar sectors and exceptional circumstances: geographical locations to the for example, if a role has Company, and an individuals increased significantly in contribution to the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate and necessary to bring a recently appointed executive in line with the market and the other executives in the Company where their salary at appointment has been positioned below the market.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale No substantive changes from the 2014 Policy.
slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 84 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Benefits The Company provides a range of Not performance linked.
Benefits for Executive No contractual To attract and retain the benefits which are aligned with Directors are set at a level provisions for right calibre of senior those provided to monthly paid which the Remuneration clawback or malus.
executive required to employees under the Companys Committee considers to be support the long-term flexible benefits policy.
These may appropriate against market interests of the business.
include: private medical insurance data for comparable roles for and health assessments, life companies of equivalent size assurance, travel insurance, income and complexity in similar protection, travel allowance, free sectors and geographical parking, access to financial and locations to the Company.
legal advice, staff product discount, The maximum value of subsidised staff restaurants and the Directors and Officers other discounts.
Any business travel Liability Insurance and the costs will be paid by the Company.
Companys indemnity is the Additional benefits or payments cost at the relevant time.
in lieu of benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances, if required for business needs.
Any benefits allowances will be paid in cash monthly and will not form part of pensionable salary.
The Company provides Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and may provide an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale Some minor changes from the 2014 Policy to reflect the Companys current flexible benefits policy.
Pension Contributions, allowances and Not performance linked.
Contributions to the defined No contractual To attract and retain the pension choices for the Executive contribution pension provisions for right calibre of senior Directors are on the same terms as scheme for the Executive clawback or malus.
executive required to for other employees.
Directors will normally be in support the long-term line with the other scheme Executive Directors can choose interests of the business.
participants: however, the to participate in the defined Remuneration Committee contribution Group personal may exceed this standard pension scheme or an occupational maximum in order to be money purchase scheme.
market competitive and attract and retain the right Where lifetime or annual pension calibre of senior executive allowances have been met, the talent needed to support the balance of employer contributions long-term interests of the may be paid as a cash allowance business.
or into a personal pension arrangement.
These amounts will Pension contributions for UK not be treated as salary for the based Executive Directors purposes of incentive awards.
will not exceed 30% of annual base salary.
The Groups contributions under the defined contribution scheme For Executive Directors are set as a percentage of salary outside the UK, provision for based on length of scheme an executive pension will be membership.
Contributions under set taking into account local the occupational money purchase market rates.
scheme are aligned with the legislative minimum.
com Directors Remuneration Report 85 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: Short-Term Incentives Annual Incentive Plan Measures and targets are set The Remuneration The maximum bonus is Clawback may AIP annually and bonus payments are Committee sets annual 200% of base salary.
apply for three To provide a direct link determined by the Remuneration targets that are closely years or longer if The maximum bonus between measurable Committee following the year end aligned to the delivery of the the Remuneration payable for the relevant and predictable annual based on performance against the Groups strategic objectives Committee financial year is described Company and or role targets.
determines from in the Annual Report on specific performance and date of payment of Bonus payments, if made, are These will be a mix of Remuneration.
a bonus or grant of payable in cash after the results of financial targets and a deferred award, in To incentivise the the Group have been audited.
individual objectives with certain exceptional achievement the majority being financial.
See To the extent that an Executive of outstanding results page 93 for further Director does not meet the For threshold performance aligned to the business details.
minimum shareholding no more than 25% of the strategy.
requirement, up to 50% of any maximum opportunity bonus payment will be deferred will be earned.
For stretch into shares, vesting after a period of performance, the maximum three years.
The performance conditions for the relevant financial year are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale A minor change from the 2014 Policy to recognise that the payout range between the threshold and the maximum opportunity may not necessarily be calculated on a straight-line basis.
The 2014 Policy provided that a straight-line sliding scale applied between the threshold and the maximum.
Directors Remuneration Report 86 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: Long-Term Incentives Long Term Incentive An award over a fixed number of The Remuneration The Remuneration Clawback and Plan LTIP shares is granted annually.
Awards Committee sets targets Committee may grant malus provisions To attract, retain and made in the form of nil-cost options that are closely aligned to awards, with a maximum may be applied incentivise senior or conditional share awards will the delivery of the Groups total market value of 150% to LTIP awards in executives over the ordinarily vest three years from strategic objectives for the of annual base salary of a certain exceptional longer-term.
award, subject to continued performance period.
In the case of circumstances.
The service and the achievement of will be a mix of financial the Chief Executive Officer, clawback period To align the interests of performance conditions and other targets and individual the maximum total market will be two years the senior executives and conditions.
objectives with the majority value of an award is 200% of or longer, if the the shareholders.
Remuneration Dividend equivalents may be paid Committee in cash or additional shares on LTIP For threshold performance, In exceptional determines from awards that vest.
no more than 25% of the circumstances, the the end of the maximum opportunity Remuneration Committee holding period or Awards made after 3 May 2017 are will vest.
For stretch may grant awards with a the date the awards subject to an additional holding performance, the maximum maximum total market are acquired.
period of two years or longer if opportunity will vest.
The value of 300% of annual the Remuneration Committee measurement period for base salary of a participant See page 93 for determines from the third performance conditions will or, in the case of the Chief further details.
anniversary of the date of grant.
ordinarily comprise at least Executive Officer, 400% of LTIP awards are only acquired by three financial years of the annual base salary.
an Executive Director once the total Company.
The performance period of five years from the date conditions for the relevant of grant has elapsed.
The holding award are described in period usually applies regardless the Annual Report on of whether or not the Executive Remuneration.
Director remains an employee of the Group.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale A change from the 2014 Policy to introduce a holding period of two years from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
This change helps increase alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders and further balance the shorter-term focus of the annual bonus.
Under the 2014 Policy there was no holding period after completion of the three-year performance period.
A minor change from the 2014 Policy to recognise that the payout range between the threshold and the maximum opportunity may not necessarily be calculated on a straight-line basis.
com Directors Remuneration Report 87 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: One-off Long-Term Incentives Growth Incentive Plan A one-off award of options over Awards are subject to Four million shares for the Clawback and GIP shares in the Company with a nil a single performance Chief Executive Officer and malus provisions To attract, retain and exercise price.
condition to be satisfied over one million shares for each may be applied incentivise senior the five years from the date of the Chief Financial Officer to GIP awards in The Chief Executive Officer, the executives.
and the Chief Operations certain exceptional Chief Financial Officer and the Officer.
The To align the interests Chief Operations Officer received The share price of the clawback period of senior executives an award.
New Executive Directors Company is the sole Awards to new participating will be two years and shareholders, by and other senior employees may performance measure and Executive Directors or other or longer if the incentivising senior be invited to participate at a level its growth will be assessed senior employees will Remuneration executives to deliver dependent on the point during the relative to the growth of the not exceed the awards of Committee exceptional levels of performance period at which they FTSE 100 Share Index over existing participants.
determines from growth and return to the were appointed.
shareholder over the The Executive Directors must hold Performance will be long-term.
See page 93 for a level of shares throughout the assessed based on the three further details.
For the Chief month average share price Executive Officer, this shareholding of the Company and of the must be at least one times salary FTSE 100 Share Index at the and for other Executive Directors, beginning and end of the this shareholding must be at least performance period.
performance target is growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index plus: not more than 5% p. a. : 0% of the award vests.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale No change from the 2014 Policy.
Directors Remuneration Report 88 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Joint Share Ownership A one-off arrangement established Interests in shares vested The JSOS rules contain Certain leaver Scheme JSOS prior to the Companys listing on annually over a four-year limits which constrain the provisions allow To attract, retain and the London Stock Exchange in 2010. period.
The participant number of interests that may the Company incentivise senior benefits from the increase in be issued under the JSOS.
to recover share The participants and Estera Trust executives.
value of the shares interests interests in certain Jersey Limited, the EBT Trustee, No future awards will be above a predetermined circumstances.
To align the interests of acquired separate beneficial made to the Executive market price for each the senior executives interests in ordinary shares of the Directors under the JSOS.
See page 94 for tranche the hurdle price.
and the shareholders, by Company.
The participant may lose further details.
driving share price growth his interest in the shares.
Awards under the JSOS will over four years.
have no value unless the hurdle price is achieved.
Interests in the Companys shares were granted in tranches, with a different hurdle price for each tranche.
See page 105 for further details.
All-Employee Share Plans Sharesave All employees are eligible to Not performance linked.
Options are usually granted The scheme rules To provide all employees, participate in this all employee at a discount to the market do not provide for including Executive tax advantaged share scheme.
price at the time of grant up malus or clawback Directors, the opportunity The Company grants options to the maximum discount provisions.
to voluntarily invest in over shares in the Company to under HMRC limits.
Company shares and be employees, including the Executive Employees are limited to aligned with the interests Directors.
saving a maximum amount of shareholders.
To obtain an option an eligible under HMRC limits.
individual must agree to save a fixed monthly amount for three or five years up to the maximum monthly amount under HMRC limits.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options may be exercised in a six month period at the maturity of a three or five year savings period, subject to continued service.
com Directors Remuneration Report 89 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Share Incentive Plan All employees are eligible to Not performance linked.
Maximum opportunity for The scheme rules SIP participate in this all employee tax awards and purchases are do not provide for To provide all employees, advantaged share scheme.
The SIP kept in line with HMRC limits.
malus or clawback including Executive allows: provisions.
Directors, the opportunity the Company to grant free to receive and invest in shares to all employees Company shares and be allocated on an equal basis: aligned with the interests of shareholders.
all employees to buy partnership shares monthly from their gross salary: and the Company may offer matching shares to employees who purchase partnership shares.
Dividend shares are also covered by the SIP arrangements.
2014 Executive Share All employees are eligible to If awards are made to the There are currently no plans The scheme rules Option Scheme 2014 participate in this all employee tax Executive Directors, the to make awards to the do not provide for ESOS advantaged share scheme and the Remuneration Committee existing Executive Directors malus or clawback To provide all employees, unapproved part of the scheme.
including Executive Remuneration Committee The Company grants options Maximum opportunity Directors, the opportunity sets targets that are closely over shares in the Company to for awards will be in line to receive Company share aligned to the delivery of the employees.
Options over shares with HMRC limits for the options and be aligned Groups strategic objectives vest on the third anniversary tax advantaged part of the with the interests of for the performance period.
of grant, subject to continued scheme.
These may be a mix of service and satisfaction of any strategic and financial Maximum opportunity performance conditions.
If vested, targets with the majority for awards under the the options may be exercised at being financial.
unapproved part of the any time between the third and scheme is 300% of annual tenth anniversaries of grant at the For threshold performance base salary, except in executives discretion.
no more than 25% of the exceptional circumstances.
maximum opportunity would be earned.
For stretch performance, the maximum opportunity will vest.
The measurement period for performance conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
Directors Remuneration Report 90 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Executive Share Option Options issued prior to May 2014 See 2014 ESOS.
There are currently no plans See 2014 ESOS.
Scheme ESOS were issued under the ESOS.
to make awards to any To provide all employees, Employees and two Executive employees or the Executive including Executive Directors retain options under the Directors under this scheme.
From May 2014 new option See 2014 ESOS.
to receive Company share awards are made under the 2014 options and be aligned ESOS.
The terms of the ESOS largely with the interests of mirror those of the 2014 ESOS.
The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors.
Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Chairman Fee The fee is paid monthly in cash.
The maximum aggregate No contractual To attract and retain amount of basic fees provisions for Reviewed annually by the an individual with the payable to all Directors shall clawback or malus.
Remuneration Committee, with appropriate degree not exceed the 1 million any changes normally becoming of expertise and limit set in the Companys effective in April each year.
The review takes into account Normally, any increases a number of factors including: will be within the normal the Groups annual review percentage range and process, business performance guidelines that are applied and appropriate market data for to the UK-based monthly comparable roles for companies of paid employees of the equivalent size and complexity in Company in that year.
similar sectors and geographical locations to the Company.
Non-Executive The fee is paid monthly in cash.
The maximum aggregate No contractual Director Fee amount of basic fees provisions for Fee structure includes an annual To attract and retain payable to all Directors shall clawback or malus.
base fee for a Non-Executive expert people with the not exceed the 1 million Director and may include appropriate degree of limit set in the Companys additional fees for being the Senior expertise and Articles of Association.
Independent Director or a Board experience committee chair.
Normally, any increases will be within the normal Reviewed annually by the percentage range and Executive Directors and the guidelines that are applied Chairman, with any changes to the UK-based monthly normally becoming effective in paid employees of the April each year.
The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance and appropriate market data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity in similar sectors and geographical locations to the Company.
com Directors Remuneration Report 91 Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Travel and expenses The Company may reimburse Not performance linked.
The maximum No contractual To support the Directors expenses and travel costs reimbursement is expenses provisions for in the fulfilment of their reasonably incurred by the reasonably incurred, clawback or malus.
Chairman and the Non-Executive together with any taxes Directors in fulfilment of the thereon.
Companys business, together with any taxes thereon.
Other arrangements The Chairman and the NonNot applicable.
The maximum staff product Not applicable.
Executive Directors are not usually discount is that offered to eligible for annual bonus, share any Group employees.
incentive schemes, pensions or The maximum value of other benefits with the exception the Directors and Officers of the staff product discount Liability Insurance and the and free delivery offered to all Companys indemnity is the employees.
cost at the relevant time.
The Company provides the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors with Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and may provide an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale No changes are proposed for the policy for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, except that the Chairmans Share Matching Award provided for under the 2014 Policy that vested on 10 May 2016, will not carry forward under the 2017 Policy, since it was a one-off award made on Lord Roses appointment as Chairman to the Board in 2013.
Notes to the Policy Tables: 1.
No other items in the nature of remuneration are provided by the Company to its Non-Executive Directors, save for the amounts paid to Robert Gorrie as described on page 53.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
In the case of the Sharesave and SIP, these tax advantaged all-employee schemes are subject to rules constrained by legislation and so awards are made on the same terms not comprising performance conditions to all employees including Executive Directors.
Prior to the Companys listing in 2010, some option awards were made to the Executive Directors under the ESOS without performance conditions.
Options were awarded under the ESOS to Duncan Tatton-Brown on his appointment to the Board.
Although awards will not usually be made to existing Executive Directors, the rules of the ESOS and 2014 ESOS allow the Remuneration Committee to impose performance conditions on any awards made to a Director under each plan.
Performance targets apply to the AIP, LTIP and GIP.
a. AIP the Remuneration Committee adjusts the design including measures and weightings of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
Management proposes suitable metrics and levels of performance to form the threshold and stretch levels of performance.
Any individual objectives applicable for the AIP are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
The measurable objectives are agreed between the Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, between him and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the proposed targets to assess whether they are appropriately aligned with the strategy and shareholders interests and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Director is appropriate in the circumstances.
Usually, full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the AIP performance measures are outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
b. LTIP the Remuneration Committee reviews the design of the LTIP each year to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant to the Companys key strategic objectives over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance measures in light of the long-term strategic plan and agrees the threshold and stretch conditions that must be achieved.
Full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the LTIP performance measures are outlined in the Annual report on remuneration.
c. GIP the GIP performance measure was designed to incentivise outstanding growth in value of the Group over the five-year performance period.
The performance measure requires the growth in the Company share price to be significantly more than the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period.
This helps to ensure alignment with shareholders, as full vesting will only occur where outstanding shareholder value is created.
The Directors Remuneration Policy contains formal components for short and long-term incentives with performance conditions attached.
While the Group has a policy of remunerating its employees through share scheme participation, it does not have formal remuneration arrangements for all employees akin to all of the components of Directors remuneration.
In the case of the Management Committee, they participate in an annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive schemes, including the LTIP and the JSOS, with award levels set at lower percentages of salary than those of the Directors.
The performance conditions and most other terms of these schemes are the same as for the Executive Directors.
The bonus plan for senior management does not include provision for share deferral of a payment.
The LTIP awards from 2017 for senior management do not include holding periods.
In the case of some small groups of senior employees, the Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements such as the JSOS, cash-based long-term incentive scheme and management incentive plan.
Aside from these targeted arrangements and the SIP, the ESOS and the Sharesave, the variable remuneration of employees is not closely aligned with that of Directors.
Directors Remuneration Report 92 Director Minimum Shareholding Expectation It is the policy of the Company that the Directors are expected to build up over a period of time, and hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
This is considered an effective way to align the interests of the Executive Directors and the shareholders in the long-term.
These shareholding expectations are outlined in the table below.
Director Shareholding Expectation Executive Directors Executive Directors are expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% of base salary.
This holding can be built up over five years from appointment.
Share awards may count if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
The net value of share interests and share awards which are vested, but remain subject to a holding period and or clawback, may count towards the shareholding requirement.
Until the minimum shareholding is met, an Executive Director must defer up to 50% of any cash bonus payable under the AIP as an award of shares.
Chairman The Chairman is expected to hold shares equivalent to one years annual fee.
This holding can be built up over three years from appointment.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are expected to hold shares equivalent to one years annual fee.
Change from 2014 Policy and rationale A change from the 2014 Policy to introduce a higher level of minimum shareholding to 200% of annual base salary for Executive Directors.
Under the 2014 Policy the minimum shareholding was 150% of annual base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% for other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors have five years from appointment to meet the minimum shareholding expectation compared with three years under the 2014 Policy.
Should the minimum shareholding expectation be met but the market value of the Companys shares subsequently fall below the required level, compliance with this expectation will be based on the higher of the original share purchase price or the price at vesting in the case of share awards or current market price.
Approach to Remuneration of Directors on Recruitment Recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will apply a number of principles.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package of a newly appointed Executive Director with the Directors Remuneration Policy outlined above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award in the remuneration package which it considers to be appropriate.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take into account all relevant factors including but not limited to the specific circumstances, the calibre of the individual, the market practice for the candidates location, the nature of the role they are being recruited to fulfil and any relevant market factors, including any competing offers the candidate may be considering.
The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Committees considerations would be subject to the overall limit on variable remuneration outlined below.
Where promotion to an Executive Director role is from within the Company, any performance-related pay element arising from their previous role will continue on its original terms, provided such element if not otherwise within the terms of this policy was not made in contemplation of such person becoming an Executive Director.
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may, to the extent permitted by relevant plan rules or Listing Rules, make a one-off award to buy out incentives or any other compensation arrangements forfeited by the appointee on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards offered should be on a comparable basis, taking into account all relevant factors including any performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting or performance period remaining and the form of the award.
In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
In addition, one-off payments in respect of relocation or ongoing relocation allowances may be made to a newly appointed Executive Director.
However, these payments must reflect actual financial loss or cost of moving the Executive Director, their family or assets, and the market practice in the geographical location to which the Executive Director is moving to or from.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services or a cash payment or a combination of both.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded upon recruitment excluding any buy out awards or costs and allowances on relocation and awards made to appointees under the GIP is 600% of base salary.
Any GIP awards will be subject to the award limits set out in the remuneration policy table.
Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors The remuneration package for newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will be in line with the structure set out in the remuneration policy table for Non-Executive Directors.
com Directors Remuneration Report 93 Loss of Service or Termination Policy Service Contracts for Executive Directors Each of the Executive Directors is employed pursuant to a service contract with Ocado Central Services Limited.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that an Executive Directors employment may be terminated by the Company giving to the Executive Director not less than 12 months notice or by the Executive Director giving to the Company not less than six months notice.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that if an Executive Directors service contract is terminated without cause, Ocado Central Services Limited can request that the Executive Director work their notice period, take a period of garden leave or pay an amount in lieu of notice equal to one times their basic salary, benefits and pension for the remainder of their notice period.
While the service contracts do not specify this, the Companys remuneration principles provide that any payments should be reduced in certain circumstances where the Executive Directors loss has been mitigated, for example, where he moves to other employment.
The service contracts do not contain any specific provisions relating to a change of control of the business.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Remuneration Committee retains a discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably payable to the Executive Director including legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment and obtaining independent legal advice on a settlement or compromise agreement, and the relocation costs for returning the departing Executive Director and his family to their original country of origin.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services, or cash payment or a combination of both.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Executive Director service contract that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Letters of Appointment for Non-Executive Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that a Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one months notice, or in the case of the Chairman, not less than six months notice.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Payments on Cessation of Employment for Executive Directors The Executive Director service contracts do not oblige the Company to pay a bonus if the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
But under the rules of the AIP, the Executive Director may receive a proportion of the bonus or deferred award that the Remuneration Committee determines would otherwise have been payable or granted to him under the rules for the financial year.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant scheme rules, all of which have been approved by shareholders.
The table on page 96 provides a summary of these leaver provisions.
The Remuneration Committee generally has discretion to determine the treatment of a leaver, but will be conscious of the remuneration principle that it should not reward poor performance or behaviour.
Payments on Cessation of Service for Non-Executive Directors A Non-Executive Director is not entitled to any other payment on cessation of service with the Company.
Malus and Clawback Provisions The AIP, LTIP and GIP scheme rules contain malus and or clawback provisions that allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce or retrieve a payment or an award.
The Remuneration Committee will do so when there are exceptional circumstances.
Such exceptional circumstances include without limitation a material mis-statement in the published results of the Group, an error in assessing any applicable performance condition, misconduct on the part of the Executive Director concerned and where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, the Remuneration Committee determines that the Executive Director has caused wholly or in part a material loss for the Group as a result of i reckless, negligent or wilful actions or ii inappropriate values or behaviour.
Directors Remuneration Report 94 Share Scheme Leaver Provisions The incentive schemes contain leaver provisions that cover arrangements for awards where a participant leaves employment with the Group, as set out in the relevant scheme rules and summarised below.
Remuneration Element Bad Leavers Good Leavers LTIP Generally, unvested LTIP awards If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group for a good leaver reason e. g. ill health, and vested LTIP options will lapse injury or permanent disability, then his LTIP awards which have not vested will vest on the on the date the participant ceases vesting date or earlier as the Remuneration Committee shall determine but only to the to be an employee.
extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied subject to operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed to the date of cessation of employment.
The LTIP awards will normally continue to be subject to the post-vesting holding period.
If a participant dies, his LTIP awards will vest on the date of his death and the performance conditions will not apply but unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of death.
The post-vesting holding period will not apply to his LTIP awards.
To the extent that LTIP options vest in accordance with the above provisions, they may usually be exercised for a period of 12 months following vesting or such longer period as the Remuneration Committee may decide and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
To the extent that a participant who leaves in circumstances other than dismissal for cause or who dies holding vested LTIP options, they may be exercised at any time during the usual exercise period and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
The post-vesting holding period will continue to apply except in the event of a participants death unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The Company may apply the post-vesting holding period to an LTIP award or to any part of it in one of two ways: i to vested awards where the underlying shares are retained by the Company for the duration of the holding period and are only transferred to participants on expiry of such period: or ii to vested awards where the underlying shares are transferred to the participant on vesting but which remain subject to additional restrictions such as transfer or sale until expiry of the holding period.
GIP See LTIP above, as the same leaver See LTIP above, as the same leaver rules apply except with respect to holding periods which rules apply except with respect do not apply to GIP awards.
to holding periods which do not apply to GIP awards.
JSOS If a participant is a bad leaver The participants interest shall continue to vest on the same dates as if that participant had i. e. he is neither a good leaver remained in employment so long as the participant remains a good leaver.
nor a very bad leaver, he Should the participant die before a tranche vests, the participants interest will vest entirely on would retain his vested interests the date of death.
on ceasing to be an employee, but unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
In the case of a very bad leaver i. e. has or could have been dismissed for cause or is in material breach of an obligation binding after termination, both vested and unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
Deferred Shares Deferred share awards will lapse An Executive Director will retain his deferred share award on ceasing employment with the Under the AIP on the date the Executive Director Group and will receive the award at the usual vesting date in accordance with the plan rules, ceases to be an employee.
subject to the operation of clawback and malus provisions.
All-Employee Leavers will be treated within the Leavers will be treated within the scheme rules.
com Directors Remuneration Report 95 Change of Control The incentive schemes contain change of control provisions, as set out in the relevant scheme rules.
Under the LTIP, in the event of a takeover of the Company, LTIP awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance and other conditions have been satisfied at that time, ii the operation of malus or clawback, and iii unless the Remuneration Committee decides that pro-rating would be inappropriate in the particular circumstances pro-rating to reflect the proportion of the normal performance period that has elapsed at the date of that event.
The Remuneration Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the post-vesting holding period will no longer apply to an LTIP Award or to any part of it as of the vesting date or on such later date as decided by the Remuneration Committee.
Under the GIP, if there is a change of control of the Company, options may be exercised early subject to the performance target being satisfied, and in proportion to the amount of the performance period that has elapsed.
Under the AIP, deferred share awards vest early on a change of control, though the Remuneration Committee has discretion to not release the award early and instead roll the award into an equivalent award in the acquiring company.
Under the terms of the JSOS rules, in the event of an offer a participant may request the EBT Trustee to accept the offer with respect to shares that have vested under the JSOS.
For further information on agreements impacted by a change of control see the Directors Report on pages 70 to 71.
Other Remuneration External Appointments for Executive Directors It is the Companys policy and a requirement of the contract of employment that the Executive Director may not take up non-executive directorships or other appointments without the approval of the Board.
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nomination Committee or the Board to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Board.
The Board would not usually agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one nonexecutive directorship of a listed or public company or the chairmanship of such a company.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
Payments Which are not in Accordance with the Policy The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before 7 May 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy came into effect: ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Minor Amendments The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without seeking shareholder approval for that amendment.
Illustration of Directors Remuneration Policy The bar charts on page 96 provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the Executive Directors based on the Directors Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 80 to 96.
Base Salary, Benefits AIP LTIP GIP and Pension Minimum Performance is below threshold on Performance is below threshold on Performance is growth in the FTSE Fixed each metric.
100 Share Index plus not more than 5% p. a.
Target or at Performance is in line with the Threshold performance is reached.
Performance is growth in the FTSE Fixed Expectation Companys expectations.
Maximum Maximum performance is achieved Maximum performance is achieved Performance is growth in the FTSE Fixed on each metric.
100 Share Index plus 20% p. a. slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 96 The figures use the 2016 base salary and pension see pages 98 and 99 and value of benefits received for 2016 see page 99.
The performance related pay figures are based on the potential awards for 2017 see pages 99 to 100, but it should be noted that LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For the purposes of illustrating the Directors Remuneration Policy, it is assumed that the LTIP awards granted in 2017 will also be vesting in 2017.
The estimated value of the GIP is calculated using a share price of 281 pence per share, being the average share price of the final three months of the period.
It is also assumed that the GIP will vest in 2019.
The estimated remuneration for each Executive Director is based on three different levels of performance, set out below.
In all scenarios, the impact of share price movements on the value of the LTIP awards has been excluded.
Tim Steiner, Chief Executive Officer m Minimum 93% 7% Target 14% 11% 7% 67% 1% Maximum 4% 5% 9% 81% 1% 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP GIP Duncan Tatton-Brown, Chief Financial Officer m Minimum 93% 7% Target 25% 16% 9% 48% 2% Maximum 9% 9% 13% 68% 1% 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP GIP Neill Abrams, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary m Minimum 93% 7% Target 50% 31% 15% 4% Maximum 30% 30% 37% 3% 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 Salary and benefits AIP LTIP Pension Mark Richardson, Chief Operations Officer m Minimum 93% 7% Target 25% 16% 9% 48% 2% Maximum 9% 9% 13% 68% 1% 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP GIP slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Directors Remuneration Report 97 Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Directors remuneration paid in respect of the 2016 financial year.
It sets out the payments to Directors and details of the link between Company performance and remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
This part, together with the Description of the Remuneration Committee section on pages 78 to 80 constitutes the Annual Report on Remuneration, and will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Companys AGM.
Highlights for 2016 audited This table briefly summarises the highlights of the Directors remuneration arrangements for the financial year.
Base Pay and Benefits Pension AIP Long-Term Incentives All-Employee Schemes Base pay increase of 3% for Company contributions Total bonus earned by Awards were granted under ESOS options vested during the Executive Directors, in to pensions for Executive Executive Directors for 2016 the LTIP.
Directors are currently based on achievement For the 2014 LTIP awards, Ongoing participation in the significantly below the of 43.7% to 44.1% of Fee increases of 4.2% for which are due to vest in SIP and Sharesave schemes.
maximum provided for performance target, was the Non-Executive Directors March 2017, achievement under the 2014 Policy.
No change to taxable benefits.
Total Director Remuneration audited The total remuneration paid to all of the Directors during the period was 4,856,000.
The detailed remuneration breakdown for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors is set out separately.
Directors Remuneration Report 98 Executive Directors Total Remuneration audited The total remuneration for the period for each of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below.
Total cash-based remuneration paid to the Executive Directors was 2,472,000 in 2016, which was 11% lower than in 2015 2,773,000.
The decline in cash-based remuneration is largely attributable to the lower payments under the AIP in 2016.
The value of LTIP awards for 2013 included in the column for the 2015 financial year has been restated to show the actual vested amount based on the vesting of the award on 31 March 2016 at a price of 294 pence per share.
The actual vested amount is 1.53 million lower than the estimated vested amount stated in the 2015 annual report of 9.86 million.
The estimated vested amount was based on the three-month average share price from 1 September 2015 to 27 November 2015 of 348.02 pence per share.
The value of LTIP awards for 2014 included in the column for the Financial Year has been estimated based on 42.76% vesting and the three-month average share price from 1 September 2016 to 27 November 2016 of 275.42 pence per share, as these awards are not capable of vesting until after the end of the period, on 16 March 2017.
This value assumes no dividends will be payable.
The value assumes that the participant will not be required to pay an amount to acquire the conditional shares, being the nominal price of 2 pence per share.
These estimated figures will be restated in next years annual report.
The award of 9,923 share options made to Duncan Tatton-Brown in 2013 under the ESOS vested during the period.
The award became exercisable on 8 July 2016.
The award was made at a value of 302 pence per share.
At the time of vesting, the share price was lower than the exercise price, and therefore the award has no value shown in the table.
Tim Steiners taxable benefits have been restated for 2015 in relation to the use of a chauffeur to drive a car where such use was non-business related.
Total remuneration for Tim Steiner has been restated accordingly.
An explanation of each element of remuneration paid in the table is set out in the following section.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already disclosed in this report.
Base Salary audited During the period, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors.
After taking into account a number of relevant factors which are discussed in more detail below, the Remuneration Committee recommended that all basic salaries be increased.
The following table shows the change in each Executive Directors salary.
com Directors Remuneration Report 99 The changes to base salary were made in line with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Executive Directors received an increase in base pay of 3% which was in line with the percentage salary increases for the monthly paid employees of the Group in the period.
The increases, which position the salaries broadly around the market median for a company of the Companys size and complexity, also aim to help retain the Executive Directors.
Taxable Benefits audited The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, notably private medical insurance and travel insurance.
The Executive Directors also received other benefits, which are not taxable, including income protection insurance, life assurance and Group-wide employee benefits, such as an employee product discount.
The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors do not include a Company car or car cash allowance, but the Executive Directors have access to a chauffeur to drive a car for the purposes of attending business meetings.
Non-business use of the chauffeur is tracked and is shown as a taxable benefit in the total remuneration table to the extent it was used for that purpose.
Pensions audited The Company made pension contributions on behalf of the Executive Directors to the defined contribution Group personal pension scheme.
The employer contributions to the pension scheme in respect of each Executive Director are made in line with the Group personal pension scheme for all employees the Company contributions being, for employees and Executive Directors joining the pension scheme before May 2013, from 3% up to 8%, and for employees joining the scheme after May 2013, from 3% up to 6%, depending on the number of years the employee or Executive Director has participated in the scheme.
The contributions during the period made on behalf of the Executive Directors were 8% of base salary.
These contributions were made in line with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy which allows the Company to make employer contributions of up to 30% of base salary.
During the period, the Company changed its GPP pension administrators from Standard Life to Legal & General following a pension provider review.
As part of that transition, pension arrangements were changed to allow for pension contributions to be made by all employees on a salary sacrifice basis in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Pension contributions can be made to the Executive Directors and any other employee as a cash allowance where the Executive Director or employee has reached either the HMRC annual tax free limit or HMRC lifetime allowance limit for pension contributions as provided for in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
In accordance with this policy, Tim Steiner, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Neill Abrams have elected to receive their pension contributions as an equivalent cash allowance for part and all of the year respectively.
Annual Incentive Plan audited The Remuneration Committee re-examines the design of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
The 2016 AIP was based on the performance targets and weightings set out below.
Financial performance measures, namely Gross Sales A A Retail and EBITDA, were the primary targets, with 70% of the annual bonus being determined by performance against targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year, by reference to the Companys budget for the period.
Of the balance, 30% related to individual objectives for each of the Directors, largely independent of the financial objectives.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed threshold and maximum conditions that must be achieved.
A bonus is not payable unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a financial performance measure, 8.75% of total bonus is payable and at maximum performance, 35% of total bonus is payable.
A straight-line sliding scale will apply in relation to the intermediate points between the threshold and maximum.
Each target was discrete and could be earned separately.
The Chief Executive Officer had a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary and the other Executive Directors had a maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Financial objectives EBITDA % of total target 35 35 35 35 A Gross Sales Retail % of total target 35 35 35 35 Individual objectives % of total target 30 30 30 30 Examples of business area objectives 1.
Deliver progress key Drive sufficient cost Increase capacity at Support all OSP projects including new challenge for operational Dordon and Hatfield CFCs contractual negotiations CFCs and technology programmes 2.
Develop and drive longContinue to operate an Progress Erith CFC and Expand patent function term strategy efficient and effective technology projects and and IP protection finance and risk function keep them on schedule See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 100 Financial Targets and Individual Targets Each Executive Director had four to five individual objectives, with different weightings, under the plan.
They related to specific programmes relevant to each Executive Directors business area for which they have primary responsibility.
All of the Executive Directors had an individual objective which concerned the strategic plans for the Ocado Smart Platform.
The Remuneration Committee also considered environmental, social and governance issues when setting the individual objectives, in particular for Neill Abrams who has responsibility for the Groups CR policy.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of each Executive Director against the measurable performance metrics and based their judgement on a scoring report by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman.
A The Groups Gross Sales Retail for the period were 1,267 million, which was above the threshold of 1,254 million set under the 2016 AIP.
The Groups A EBITDA pre-exceptional items for the period was 84.3 million, which was above the threshold of 84.0 million set under the 2016 AIP.
The Remuneration Committee, in assessing performance, took into account the level of the Groups trading performance compared with UK grocery retail peers and the Groups progress against its strategic objectives.
All Executive Directors met to some extent their individual objectives, with achievement being scored between 68% and 70% of maximum.
There is no threshold or maximum target set for the individual objectives.
Each objective is weighted and scored to provide a total score out of 30.
Performance may range from zero to 30.
The applicable salary used for calculating the bonus payment under the rules of the 2016 AIP is the applicable base salary on the date of payment.
Disclosure of Targets The threshold and maximum targets and achievement against the targets have been disclosed in respect of the financial targets for the AIP.
A broad description of some of the Executive Directors individual objectives has been provided, but specific details concerning the individual objectives and performance against them has not been disclosed in this report.
Although the Remuneration Committee is conscious of the regulations and the Code requirement that performance targets should be transparent, it considers that the individual objectives were and remain commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
These individual objectives mostly relate to important business strategies and actions and consequently could hinder the progress of the business or the Groups competitive advantage if publicly disclosed.
The Remuneration Committee does not expect to disclose this information at a later date.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the targets were stretching and have been rigorously applied.
Summary of Bonus Earned The Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy and the rules of the 2016 AIP, recommended an aggregate bonus payment under the plan for the period of 759,953 2015: 1,115,370, based on achievement between 43% and 44% of maximum 2015: achievement of 65% to 67% of maximum.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this level of bonus payment appropriately reflects the performance of the business and individual performance during the period, which saw strong trading for the Group in a very competitive market.
The table above summarises the bonus payments for each Executive Director for the 2016 AIP.
The cash payments are expected to be made in February 2017.
No amount has been deferred to a later date given that under the rules of the AIP deferral does not apply as all of the Executive Directors have met the minimum shareholding expectations under the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Directors Remuneration Report 101 Share Plans Awards granted under long-term incentive plans only count towards the total remuneration figure for the period in which they vest or where achievement of performance targets is determined in the period.
Awards under most of the Companys share plans are subject to three-year vesting periods and therefore awards made or exercised during the period will not necessarily be reflected in the total remuneration figure for this period.
Further details on all the existing share incentives held by the Executive Directors are set out below.
ESOS The award of 9,923 share options, made to Duncan Tatton-Brown in 2013 under the ESOS, vested during the period.
This was a one-off award of options made to Duncan after joining the Group.
The Group had, until mid-2013, a policy of issuing options to all new employees and the Executive Directors shortly after joining the Group.
The options were not subject to performance conditions but were not exercisable before the third anniversary of the grant date.
On the first date the award became exercisable, the Companys share price was below the exercise price and so the award had no value on vesting.
The details of the ESOS option are set out in the table below.
Number of Exercise Price on date Value on date Director Date of Grant options price of vesting of vesting Duncan Tatton-Brown 08 07 2013 9,923 3.02 2.306 0 The options have not been exercised and are exercisable until July 2023.
LTIP The LTIP is the primary long-term incentive for the Executive Directors.
The LTIP awards help reward the Executive Directors for the delivery of long-term business objectives.
The three-year performance period for the 2014 LTIP awards expired at the end of the financial year.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance against the two equally weighted performance conditions, namely diluted and adjusted earnings per share and Group Revenue, for the 2015 2016 financial year.
The diluted and adjusted earnings per share for the period was 3.075 pence per share.
Accordingly, achievement against this performance target was 42.76%.
As noted on page 125 of this Annual Report, the Groups diluted earnings per share was 1.96 pence per share 2015: 1.91 pence per share.
The EPS used as a performance criteria for the LTIP is adjusted to exclude exceptional costs and additional share scheme awards made since the 2014 award as agreed at the time of the award.
Group Revenue represented the other half of the award.
As noted on page 125, the Groups Revenue for the period was 1,271.0 million, which was an increase of 14.8% on 2015 and an increase of 34% between 2014 and 2016, but which fell below the threshold of 1,385.5 million set under the LTIP award.
Consequently, achievement against this performance target was 0%.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the 2014 Policy and the rules of the LTIP, recommended overall vesting of 42.76% for the 2014 LTIP awards.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this level of vesting appropriately reflects the performance of business during the performance period.
Details of performance are set out in the table below.
The value of the 2014 LTIP awards in the total remuneration table is estimated based on the average Company share price for the final three months of the period, being 275.42 pence per share.
The expected vesting date of the 2014 LTIP award is 16 March 2017 which was changed from 31 March 2017, with the approval of the Remuneration Committee during the period, for administrative ease.
Subject to the continued satisfaction of the award conditions, final vesting will be determined.
An award will not vest unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a financial performance measure, 12.5% of the total award will vest and 50% vesting will occur for achieving or exceeding maximum performance for a condition.
A straight line sliding scale applies in relation to the intermediate points between the threshold and maximum.
Details of the number of conditional shares awarded to each Director for the 2014 LTIP awards are shown in the table on page 106.
Recovery of Sums Paid audited No sums paid or payable to the Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
Directors Remuneration Report 102 Non-Executive Directors Total Fees audited The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period are set out in the remuneration table below.
With the exception of the Chairman who has received the Chairmans Share Matching Award, which is noted below and Robert Gorrie who receives other remuneration as set out below, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Group other than their annual fee.
Andrew Harrison joined the Board on 1 March 2016.
David Grigson resigned from the Board with effect from the 2016 annual general meeting on 4 May 2016.
For further details on the long-term incentive payment see the Chairmans Share Matching Award below.
Emma Lloyd was appointed on 1 December 2016, after the period end.
Emmas fees are in line with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
The remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors except the Chairman were reviewed by the Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period and the basic fees for non-executive directors were increased to 50,000 2015: 48,000 per annum.
The review was carried out by the Executive Directors and Chairman in accordance with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy and accordingly took into account the responsibility and time commitments of the roles of the Non-Executive Directors and Board committee chairmen, the financial position and trading performance of the business, and the appropriate benchmark data provided by Deloitte for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Group.
The Chairmans fees were not subject to review in 2016 as it was agreed on appointment that the Chairmans fee would not be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee for a minimum of three years from appointment.
Other Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors audited In addition to the fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to a staff shopping discount in line with the Groups employees.
Robert Gorrie chairs the meetings of the Ocado National Council and occasionally provides advice on various employee matters, in addition to his role as a Non-Executive Director.
He provides these services through Robert Gorrie Limited of which he is the sole shareholder and is paid a per diem fee for these services.
These fees are included in the related party transactions with key management personnel in Note 5.4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Non-Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already referred to in this report.
Chairmans Share Matching Award The Chairmans Share Matching Award, which was awarded to Lord Rose on his becoming Chairman in May 2013, vested in May 2016.
Director Date of grant Number of shares Value at grant Vesting date Value on vesting Lord Rose 17 05 2013 452,284 400,000 10 05 2016 1,334,238 1.
The value at grant of the award was calculated using a price of 88.44 pence per share, being the volume weighted average share price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 22 January 2013 the date of the announcement of the Chairmans appointment.
The basis for the award was to match up to 400,000 of Company shares where such shares were acquired by the Chairman.
The value on vesting was calculated using the closing share price of 295 pence per share on the day of vesting.
com Directors Remuneration Report 103 The vesting of the award was subject to the condition that the Chairman remained a Director of the Company.
There were no performance criteria to which vesting was subject.
Lord Rose may not dispose of the vested shares until the first anniversary of his ceasing to be a director of the Company.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was approved by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting on 10 May 2013.
It was a one-off award made on Lord Roses appointment as Chairman of the Board.
On joining the Board, Lord Rose had already acquired 750,000 of the Companys ordinary shares on his own account.
Lord Rose subscribed for the 452,284 ordinary shares at their nominal value, that is 9,046, on grant.
No payment was required on vesting.
Recovery of Sums Paid audited No sums paid or payable to the Non-Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
Other Remuneration Disclosures Executive Directors Service Contracts audited Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Group.
The terms of these contracts are consistent with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy, though the contracts provide for payment in lieu of notice of one times basic salary only and do not include other fixed elements of pay, which are permitted by the policy.
The service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are continuous until terminated by either party on 12 months notice if terminated by the Company, or six months notice if terminated by the Director.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment audited The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and were appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the annual general meeting.
There are no provisions in the letters of appointment for payment for early termination.
A Non-Executive Director appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one months notice, except in the case of the Chairman, which requires six months notice by either party.
A copy of a pro forma Non-Executive Director letter of appointment is available on the Companys corporate website.
Copies of the letters of appointment and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Deferral or Holding Periods audited The current Executive Director share scheme awards do not contain any requirements for Directors to retain shares for a period after leaving the Company.
However, the Remuneration Committee feels that their absence is materially mitigated by the existing large shareholdings held by the Executive Directors in the Company and by the lengthy five-year vesting period that applies to the GIP.
Such factors help create a longer term focus from the Executive Directors and strong alignment with shareholders, as envisaged by Code principle D. 1.
Additionally, the 2017 Policy introduces a holding period of two years from the third anniversary of the date of grant under the LTIP.
This is explained on page 80.
Director Retirement Arrangements and Payments for Loss of Office audited As announced on 28 January 2016 and 18 November 2016, it was determined in accordance with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy that the arrangements set out below should apply in relation to David Grigsons and Robert Gorries remuneration on retirement, respectively.
Element of Remuneration Treatment Remuneration Payments All outstanding fees were paid to David Grigson up to 4 May 2016, in accordance with the terms of his letter of appointment.
All outstanding fees will be paid to Robert Gorrie up to 3 May 2017 in accordance with the terms of his letter of appointment.
No payments are expected after the date of retirement for either Director.
Although Robert Gorrie may continue to be paid a fee for services to the Group not in a Director capacity as explained on page 53.
Payment for Loss of Office No payment for loss of office or other remuneration payment was made or is expected to be made to either Director.
Share Schemes At the time of retirement, neither David Grigson nor Robert Gorrie were participants in a Group share scheme.
Director Appointment Arrangements audited As announced on 28 January 2016, Andrew Harrison was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2016.
Andrew Harrisons remuneration is in line with the 2014 Policy.
On appointment, Andrew Harrisons basic annual fee was 48,000, which increased to 50,000 in April 2016 in line with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Andrew Harrison will not receive any other benefits or payments, in line with the 2014 Policy.
Payments to Past Directors The Company does not have any arrangements for payments to any former Directors of the Company.
Enforcing the Directors Remuneration Policy The Company has not made any payments to a Director outside of the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
All of the Remuneration decisions regarding slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 104 executive remuneration for the period have been made in line with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
No Director has options over Company shares outside one of the Companys recognised share schemes.
External Remuneration for Executive Directors As at the date of this Annual Report: In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Neill Abrams is an alternate non-executive director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Neill.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Duncan Tatton-Brown is an independent non-executive director, senior independent director and audit committee chairman of Zoopla Property Group plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
For his services to Zoopla Property Group plc Duncan was paid a fee of 62,500 in 2016, which will increase to 65,000 in 2017.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Mark Richardson is a non-executive director of Paneltex Limited.
This role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Mark.
Director Shareholdings audited The beneficial interests in the Companys shares of Directors serving at the end of the period, and their connected persons, as shareholders and as discretionary beneficiaries under trusts, were: Ordinary Shares of 2 Pence Ordinary Shares of 2 Pence each held at 27 November 2016 each held at 29 November 2015 Director Direct Holding Indirect Holding Direct Holding Indirect Holding Tim Steiner 15,205,557 14,292,464 14,478,423 14,291,200 Lord Rose 1,202,284 750,000 Duncan Tatton-Brown 561,363 61,247 97,865 60,650 Mark Richardson 243,808 6,328 694 Neill Abrams 754,386 1,319,048 597,007 1,314,339 Alex Mahon 17,355 11,099 Ruth Anderson 80,000 80,000 Robert Gorrie 415,660 415,660 Andrew Harrison 11,500 Douglas McCallum 100,000 20,000 Jrn Rausing 69,015,602 69,015,602 1.
The indirect holding for Neill Abrams includes holdings of Caryn Abrams wife of Neill Abrams who holds 79,701 2015: 79,745 ordinary shares, Daniella Abrams daughter of Neill Abrams who holds 1,363 2015: nil ordinary shares, Mia Abrams daughter of Neill Abrams who holds 1,363 2015: nil ordinary shares, Joshua Abrams son of Neill Abrams who holds 1,363 2015: nil ordinary shares and as a discretionary beneficiary of a trust holding 133,100 2015: 133,100 ordinary shares.
The indirect holding for Duncan Tatton-Brown includes a holding by Kate Tatton-Brown wife of Duncan Tatton-Brown who holds 59,934 2015: 60,000 ordinary shares.
The indirect holding for Mark Richardson includes a holding by Rebecca Richardson wife of Mark Richardson who holds 4,970 2015: nil ordinary shares.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the shares issued or options granted by the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the period and the date of this Annual Report, except shares held pursuant to the SIP, as set out on page 109.
There have been no changes in the Directors beneficial interests in trusts holding ordinary shares of the Company.
No Director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries at the beginning or end of the period.
Tim Steiner has granted a security interest over his ordinary shares in the Company.
The security interest has been granted in connection with a loan made to him.
For further details, refer to the Companys announcement made on 28 November 2016.
The security interest was granted over 15,197,812 ordinary shares in the Company and any further ordinary shares held by Tim Steiner from time to time.
Arthur Seligman as trustee of the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust, of which Tim Steiner is one of a number of discretionary beneficiaries, has granted a security interest over 14,291,200 ordinary shares in the Company.
On 13 May 2016, in respect of various contracts for the transfer of shares as described on pages 235 and 238 of the Prospectus, Tim Steiner delayed the date on which completion under the contracts for transfer would take place to 30 June 2019, or such later date as the parties may agree.
As a result of the security interest granted over Tim Steiners ordinary shares in the Company, see footnote 6 the completion of these contracts is conditional on the release of the security interest.
On 11 May 2016, in respect of various contracts for the transfer of shares as described on pages 235 and 238 of the Prospectus, Neill Abrams delayed the date on which completion under the contracts for transfer would take place to 30 June 2019, or such later date as the parties may agree.
On 23 November 2016, Jrn Rausing notified the Company of a transfer of 69,015,602 shares in the Company from Hamilton Trust Company Limited as trustee of the Apple II Trust of which Jrn Rausing is a beneficiary to Apple III Limited which is owned by Apple III Trust, of which Jrn Rausing is a beneficiary.
Where applicable, the above indirect holdings include SIP Partnership Shares held under the SIP, which are held in trust.
The Executive Director shareholdings have increased during the period primarily due to the vesting of the 2013 LTIP awards.
For more details, see pages 106 and 107.
Emma has not purchased Company shares at the date of this Annual Report.
During the year, Non-Executive Director David Grigson retired from the Board.
David Grigson held 35,000 ordinary shares at 29 November 2015 and on the date of his retirement on 4 May 2016. slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Directors Remuneration Report 105 Director Shareholding Requirement audited The table below shows current compliance with the Director shareholding requirements in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy as at the date of this Annual Report.
All Directors comply with the Director shareholding requirements.
Minimum Shareholding Complied with Requirement % of Base Salary Shareholding Director or Fee Requirement?
Basis for Compliance Tim Steiner 150 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Duncan Tatton-Brown 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Neill Abrams 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Mark Richardson 100 Yes JSOS and SIP interests Lord Rose 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Robert Gorrie 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Douglas McCallum 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Ruth Anderson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Alex Mahon 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Jrn Rausing 100 Yes Indirect shareholdings Andrew Harrison 100 n a n a Emma Lloyd 100 n a n a 1.
Andrew Harrison was appointed on 1 March 2016 and Emma Lloyd was appointed on 1 December 2016.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to hold shares equivalent to one years annual fee.
Therefore, while neither Andrew Harrison nor Emma Lloyd hold the requisite number of shares to comply with the shareholding requirement currently, both are compliant with the policy.
David Grigson held 35,000 ordinary shares at 29 November 2015 and on the date of his retirement on 4 May 2016, therefore complying with the shareholding requirement up to this date.
His shareholdings were held directly.
The assessment for compliance is based on the current annualised salary or fee as set out in the total remuneration tables which applied on 18 January 2017 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report and the higher of the original purchase price s or the current market price being 264 pence per share on 18 January 2017, of the relevant shareholdings.
Director Interests in Share Schemes audited JSOS audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the Groups JSOS were as follows: Hurdle Date of Number of Price Director Type of interest issue share interests Vesting Date Tim Steiner Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,000 2.28 01 01 14 Neill Abrams Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,100 2.28 01 01 14 Duncan Tatton-Brown Joint interest in shares 01 11 12 365,000 1.70 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 01 11 12 1,100,000 1.80 01 01 14 Mark Richardson Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,200 2.28 01 01 14 Joint interest in shares 30 11 12 711,975 1.70 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 30 11 12 776,700 1.80 01 01 14 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 106 Granted: No awards of JSOS share interests were made during the period.
The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of share interests under the JSOS scheme to the current Executive Directors.
The JSOS scheme, which was put in place prior to the Companys Admission in 2010, involves the Executive Directors investing their own funds to purchase a shared interest in the Companys shares at the market value at that time.
These investments were made in 2010 in the case of Tim Steiner, Neill Abrams and Mark Richardson and in 2012 in the case of Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson again.
The Executive Directors invested from their own resources.
The purchased interests entitle the Executive Directors to a return only if, in the future, the share price exceeds the relevant hurdle rate.
The Executive Directors would lose their investment if the share price were not to exceed the hurdle price.
For a detailed description of the JSOS scheme refer to pages 249 to 252 of the Prospectus.
Vested: No JSOS share interests vested during the period.
Sold: No JSOS share interests have been sold by an Executive Director since inception of the scheme.
Lapsed: No JSOS share interests lapsed during the period.
The LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which is a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year performance period.
The 2014 LTIP award was determined based on a price of 515.5 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 5 February 2014 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2014 LTIP award is subject to two equally weighted performance conditions, which are the levels of diluted and adjusted earnings per share and Group Revenue, for the 2015 2016 financial year.
For each target, at threshold performance, 12.5% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 50% of an LTIP award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
The 2015 LTIP award was determined based on a price of 378 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 13 March 2015 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2015 LTIP award is subject to the achievement of four equally weighted performance conditions for the 2016 2017 financial year, being the third year of a three-year performance period.
The performance conditions concerning the financial performance of the Group, both earnings before tax and revenue, will be focused on the Groups retail business performance and will be weighted 25% each.
The new proprietary infrastructure solution performance conditions will each have a 25% weighting.
The first concerns the operational efficiency of the Andover CFC in the 2016 17 financial year and the second concerns the capital cost for an Ocado Smart Platform module.
In respect of a target, at threshold performance, 6.25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest.
The 2016 LTIP award is outlined below.
The 2014 LTIP awards are not capable of vesting until after the end of the period, on 16 March 2017 which was changed from 31 March 2017, with the approval of the Remuneration Committee during the period, for administrative ease.
Granted: LTIP awards were made in respect of 2016 of up to 150% of annual base salary and in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, an LTIP award with a total market value of 200% of annual base salary.
Such awards were made in accordance with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
The number of shares subject to an LTIP award was determined based on a price of 261 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 17 March 2016 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2016 LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which are a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of four equally weighted performance conditions for the 2017 2018 financial year, being the third year of a three-year performance period.
The performance metrics relate to the retail business and the platform business.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these performance conditions encourage the delivery of crucial strategic objectives of the Group.
The first concerns the operational efficiency of the Andover CFC in the 2017 2018 financial year and the second concerns the capital cost for an Ocado Smart Platform module.
com Directors Remuneration Report 107 The rationale for, and basis of measurement of, the performance metrics was as follows: Performance target Commercial rationale Basis of measurement Retail business 50% Rewards top line sales growth for the retail business in Group Revenue and earnings before tax for the retail line with the Groups strategy and the creation of financial business for the 2017 2018 financial year.
Platform business 50% Rewards progress and achievement with the proprietary Operational efficiency of Andover CFC and the capital cost infrastructure solution, which is a key strategy objective.
per Ocado Smart Platform modules for the 2017 2018 financial year.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a performance target, 6.25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest.
Each target is discrete and can be earned separately.
The performance conditions for the 2016 LTIP awards will be tested in relation to the financial year ending in 2018 to determine what percentage of the LTIP awards has been achieved, and will vest during 2019 to the extent that the performance conditions have been achieved.
The specific performance conditions are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would be likely to damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose the performance conditions after the end of the performance period, to the extent that the targets are not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
Vested: The 2013 LTIP awards had a vesting date of 31 March 2016 for a three-year performance period that ended with the 2014 15 financial year.
As explained in the previous annual report, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance against the 2013 LTIP performance target, which was the Groups earnings before interest and tax and pre-exceptional items and prior to the cost of the LTIP awards for management, for the 2014 15 financial year.
The Groups earnings before interest and tax and exceptional items for the period was 21.4 million, which was an increase of 31.3% on 2014.
The performance target also takes into account the share-based management incentive charges which were 7.8 million.
The Groups earnings before interest and tax and pre-exceptional items and before the LTIP award costs for management was therefore 29.2 million, which exceeded the maximum performance target of 25.2 million for the 2013 LTIP awards.
Accordingly, achievement against the performance condition was 100%.
The performance period for the 2014 LTIP awards finished in the year, although these awards are not capable of vesting until 16 March 2017 as noted on page 101.
Sold: As a result of the vesting of the 2013 LTIP awards, the Executive Directors sold shares in the Company.
The Directors sold sufficient of the shares that vested to cover the cost of the tax and National Insurance.
The details of the LTIP vesting and resulting share sale for each Executive Director are set out below.
For more details see the total remuneration table on page 98.
Lapsed: No LTIP awards lapsed during the period.
Directors Remuneration Report 108 GIP audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors total GIP awards were as follows: Face Value of End of Date of Number of Award Performance Director Type of Interest Grant Share Options Period Exercise Period Tim Steiner Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 4,000,000 12,744,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Mark Richardson Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 1.
The face value of the options which are the subject of a GIP award was determined based on a price of 318.60 pence per share being the price on date of grant.
A condition of vesting is that each participant holds, and retains throughout the performance period, shares in the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of his annual salary.
Both other participants are required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of half of their annual salary.
The GIP award is subject to the achievement of a single performance condition to be satisfied over five years commencing on the date of grant of the awards.
The share price of the Company is the sole performance measure, and will be assessed relative to the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period assessed using a three-month averaging period.
The performance schedule is set out in the table below: Percentage of award Performance target vesting % Growth of less than the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
0 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
25 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 10% p. a.
50 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 15% p. a.
75 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 20% p. a. or more 100 Granted: No awards under the GIP were granted during the period.
Vested: No awards under the GIP vested during the period.
The awards are expected to vest in May 2019 if and to the extent that the vesting criteria are met.
Sold: No awards under the GIP have been exercised or sold by an Executive Director during the period.
Lapsed: No awards under the GIP lapsed during the period.
ESOS audited At the end of the period, the Executive Directors held options under the ESOS as follows: Face Value of Type of Date of Number of Exercise Price Grant Exercise Director Interest Grant Share Options Period Mark Richardson Option 31 05 09 70,000 1.20 84,000 31 05 12 30 05 19 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option 12 08 13 9,923 3.02 29,967 08 07 16 07 07 23 Granted: The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of options under the ESOS scheme to the existing Executive Directors.
Existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010 except those granted in 2013 to then new appointee Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown.
None of the grants of ESOS options to the Executive Directors are subject to performance conditions.
Vested: For details of vested ESOS options, see page 101.
Sold: No awards under the ESOS have been exercised or sold by an Executive Director during the period.
Lapsed: No options under the ESOS lapsed during the period.
2014 ESOS audited No awards have been granted to the Executive Directors under the 2014 ESOS, and the Remuneration Committee does not have any intention of making an award of options under the 2014 ESOS scheme to the existing Executive Directors.
Accordingly, no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
com Directors Remuneration Report 109 SIP audited At the end of the period interests in shares held by the Executive Directors under the SIP were as follows: Total Face Value of Total Partnership Matching Free Shares and SIP Shares Unrestricted Shares Shares Free Shares Matching Shares Total SIP that Became SIP Shares Acquired in Awarded in Awarded in Awarded in the Year Shares Held Unrestricted Held at Director the Year the Year the Year 27 11 2016 in the Period 27 11 2016 Tim Steiner 664 95 1,323 3,858 4,996 Duncan Tatton-Brown 663 95 1,312 3,829 4,938 Mark Richardson 664 94 1,312 3,825 4,990 Neill Abrams 664 95 1,102 3,256 4,436 1.
Unrestricted shares are those which have been held beyond the three-year forfeiture period.
The value of the share awards made under the SIP is based on the middle market quotation of a share on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
Granted: The Directors continued their SIP participation during the period.
The SIP scheme is made available to all employees.
The SIP allows for the grant of a number of different forms of awards.
An award of free shares was made to the Executive Directors in September 2016 under the terms of the SIP and the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
Free shares of up to 3,600 of ordinary shares may be allocated to any employee in any year.
Free shares are allocated to employees equally on the basis of salary, as permitted by the relevant legislation.
An award of matching shares was made to those Executive Directors who purchased partnership shares using deductions taken from their gross basic pay under the terms of the SIP and in accordance with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
Partnership shares are where employees are invited to purchase ordinary shares directly from their earnings.
The market value of such partnership shares which an employee can purchase in any tax year currently may not exceed 1,800 or 10% of the relevant employees remuneration, if lower.
Matching shares are additional free shares which may be allocated to an employee who purchases partnership shares.
The rules of the SIP reflect current UK legislation and allow for a maximum match of two to one.
The matching ratio adopted by the Company for the SIP during the period was a ratio of one matching share for every seven partnership shares purchased, considerably lower than the maximum permitted ratio.
There are no performance conditions attached to awards made under the SIP, although free and matching shares are subject to a three-year forfeiture period.
Partnership shares are purchased by the employees and therefore forfeiture does not apply.
Free and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a holding period of no less than three years but no more than five years.
Partnership shares purchased by employees will not be subject to a holding period.
The Executive Directors continued their membership in the SIP after the end of the period and were therefore awarded further matching shares pursuant to the SIP rules.
Between the end of the period and 18 January 2017, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Executive Directors acquired or were awarded further shares under the SIP as set out in the table below: Total Face Value of Free Shares Partnership Matching and Matching Total SIP Shares Shares Free Shares Shares Shares Held at Director Acquired Awarded Award 18 01 2017 Tim Steiner 116 17 44 5,129 Duncan Tatton-Brown 116 17 44 5,071 Mark Richardson 116 16 41 5,122 Neill Abrams 116 16 41 4,568 1.
Vested: No awards under the SIP vested during the period.
Free and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a three-year forfeiture period starting from the date of grant.
This means that if an Executive Director ceases to be employed by the Group during the three-year period, the free and matching shares will be forfeited.
No shares awarded under the SIP have become unrestricted.
Partnership shares purchased under the SIP are not included in the total remuneration table as these are purchased by the Executive Directors from their salary, rather than granted by the Company as an element of remuneration.
Sold: No shares held under the SIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
Lapsed: No shares held by an Executive Director under the SIP lapsed during the period.
Directors Remuneration Report 110 Sharesave Scheme audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors option interests in the Sharesave scheme were as follows: Type of Date of Number of Exercise Price Face Value Director Interest Grant Share Options Exercise Period Tim Steiner Options 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 8,997 01 12 16 31 05 17 Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Neill Abrams Options 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 8,997 01 12 16 31 05 17 Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Duncan Tatton-Brown Options 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 8,997 01 12 16 31 05 17 Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Mark Richardson Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Granted: The Executive Directors elected to participate in the 2016 invitation under the Ocado Sharesave Scheme, where the Directors were granted options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company on the same terms as all other employees, at an exercise price of 2.28 per ordinary share, as set out in the table above.
The exercise price for an option was the market value of the Companys shares for the five dealing days during the Sharesave application window, less a discount of 10%.
Vested: A savings contract under the Sharesave Scheme matured after period end, on 1 December 2016.
Tim Steiner, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Neill Abrams each held 2,987 options at this date.
The value of the Directors Sharesave awards at 1 December 2016 is the value of the savings made by each Director under the savings contract.
At the time of vesting on 1 December 2016, the share price of 264.00 pence per share was lower than the exercise price of 301 pence per share, meaning that the options had no value on vesting.
Under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme, participants are able to withdraw their savings rather than exercising their options.
The value of the savings made by each Director is 9,000.
Participants are able to exercise their options until the end of the exercise period in May 2017.
Exercised: No awards under the Sharesave were exercised or sold by the Executive Directors during the period.
Lapsed: The Executive Directors elected to cancel their participation in the 2015 offer of Sharesave, resulting in the lapsing of the options originally granted to them on 1 April 2015 with an exercise price of 324 pence per share.
The options would have become exercisable on 1 May 2018.
Each had 2,777 options lapse, except in the case of Mark Richardson, who had 5,555 options lapse.
Chairmans Share Matching Award audited The Chairmans Share Matching Award vested during the period.
For further details of the vesting, see page 102. slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Directors Remuneration Report 111 Dilution Dilution Limits Awards granted under the Companys Sharesave, ESOS, 2014 ESOS and SIP schemes are met by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised or shares granted.
The allocation of awards under the JSOS were met by the subscription for new shares by the participant and the EBT.
Awards granted under the GIP may be met by the issue of new shares, the transfer of shares from treasury, or the purchase or transfer of existing shares by the EBT.
Awards vesting under the LTIP were satisfied by the issue of new shares and transfer of existing shares by the EBT.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was met by the new issue of shares on the date of grant.
The share deferral provisions in the AIP have not been approved by shareholders and accordingly awards will be satisfied only by the purchase of existing shares by the EBT until such shareholder approval is obtained.
There are limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the Companys share plans.
These dilution limits were recommended by the Remuneration Committee and incorporated into the rules of the various share schemes, which have been approved by the Companys shareholders.
The dilution limits restrict the commitment to issue new ordinary shares or reissue treasury shares under all share schemes of the Group to 10% of the nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital and under the JSOS, the LTIP and the GIP and any other selective share scheme to 5% of the nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling ten-year period.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
The JSOS rules have additional overriding limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the JSOS.
Up to 7.5% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital may be held under the JSOS.
Impact on Dilution The Company monitors the number of shares issued under these schemes and their impact on dilution.
The charts below show the Companys commitment, as at the last practicable date prior to the publication date of this Annual Report being 18 January 2017, to issue new shares in respect of its share schemes assuming all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in newly issued shares.
For these purposes, no account is taken of ordinary shares allocated prior to the Companys Admission.
All Share Plans Discretionary Share Plans Actual 5.67% Actual 3.15% Limit Limit 10.00% 5.00% slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 112 Review of Changes in Remuneration and Company Performance This part of the report provides some context for the Directors remuneration arrangements including information concerning the Companys performance, shareholder returns and the Groups total expenditure on employee pay.
Chief Executive Officer Historical Remuneration The table below summarises in respect of the Chief Executive Officer the single figure of total remuneration, the AIP or bonus plan payment as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and the long-term incentives as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current period and the previous six financial years.
The Chief Executive Officer total remuneration figures prior to the 2013 period represent the previously presented audited information with necessary adjustments for amounts required to be included in the single total figure of remuneration such as pension amounts.
From 2010, the Company had the JSOS as the main form of long-term incentive plan.
For the 2012 and 2013 financial years, the JSOS interests did not have any value at the vesting date.
In 2014, the final tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period the value of such remuneration is noted in the single total figure of remuneration table.
In 2011, the first tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period.
The LTIP was implemented in 2013 and the first award had a performance period ending in 2015 and a vesting date in 2016.
The GIP and SIP were both implemented in 2014, but have vesting dates in 2019 and 2017 respectively.
For an explanation of JSOS and the theoretical remuneration represented in the Chief Executive Officers total remuneration, see page 112 in the 2014 Annual Report.
Chief Executive Officer Percentage Change Versus Representative Employee Group To put the Directors remuneration into context, the table below sets out the change in salary, benefits, and bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and of all of the Groups UK employees from the preceding period to the current period.
Chief Executive All UK Officer employees Percentage change in salary from 2015 to 2016 3% 3.5% Percentage change in taxable benefits from 2015 to 2016 33.33 % 7.69% Percentage change in AIP earned from 2015 to 2016 31.43 % n a 1.
Most of the Groups employees are not entitled to earn an annual bonus payment as part of their remuneration.
The change in salary data for the Groups UK employees is on a per capita basis.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The following table shows the Companys profit and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees for the period and last financial year.
The Company has not paid a dividend or carried out a share buyback in the current year or previous year.
The information shown in this chart is: Profit Group profit before tax as set out in Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Total gross employee pay total gross employment costs for the Group including pension, variable pay, share based payments and social security as set out in Note 2.6 to the consolidated financial statements.
27 November 29 November 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 12.1 11.9 Total gross employee pay 287.7 239.9 Company Share Price The closing market price of the Companys shares as at 25 November 2016, being the last trading day in the period ended 27 November 2016, was 275.8 pence per ordinary share 2015: 366.5 pence and the share price range applicable during the period was 208.1 pence to 377.9 pence per ordinary share.
com Directors Remuneration Report 113 Total Shareholder Return The following graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares from its Admission to the end of the period compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The Company has not paid a dividend since its Admission so the Companys TSR does not factor in dividends reinvested in shares.
400.00 FTSE 250 Ocado Group plc 350.00 300.00 250.00 200.00 150.00 100.00 50.00 0 02 Nov 2010 18 Nov 2011 17 Dec 2012 15 Nov 2013 02 Dec 2014 03 Nov 2015 25 Nov 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of Policy for 2017 Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out implementation of the Directors remuneration for 2017.
Summary of Changes for Executive Directors This table briefly summarises the proposals for the Directors remuneration arrangements for 2017 when compared to the arrangements for the period.
Base Salary and Benefits Pension AIP Long-Term Incentives All-Employee Schemes Base salary will be subject to No changes proposed.
No change to the maximum No change to the maximum Ongoing participation in opportunity, measures or opportunity for the 2017 LTIP the SIP.
A change to one of the platform business targets.
Base Salary and Benefits The Remuneration Committee expects to finalise its annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries later in 2017, in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
The benefits in kind offered to the Executive Directors are expected to remain unchanged.
Pensions No changes are proposed to the pension contributions for Executive Directors for 2017, which are expected to remain at the levels provided in the current period.
2017 AIP The Remuneration Committee approved the implementation of an AIP for the Executive Directors applicable to the 2016 17 financial year.
This plan broadly reflects the framework of the 2016 AIP and is line with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
The bonus potential for the Executive Directors is 100% and for the Chief Executive Officer is 125% of base salary for maximum performance, which is the same as the 2016 AIP.
A A The weighting of objectives in the 2017 AIP is the same as the 2016 plan, with 35% for a Gross Sales target, 35% for a Group EBITDA target and 30% for A performance measured against role-specific objectives.
The Gross Sales target relates to the Groups Gross Sales Retail and does not include any income or benefits from the Morrisons operation.
The rationale for setting these performance measures has not changed from 2016.
For an explanation, see the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 99.
The actual performance targets are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would likely damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose achievement against the targets after the end of the performance period, provided such disclosure is not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 114 2017 LTIP Awards The Remuneration Committee approved the making of awards under the LTIP for the Executive Directors for the 2016 2017 financial year.
The amount of the LTIP awards is based on a percentage of salary, expected to be in line with the percentages agreed for the 2016 LTIP awards and in line with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy.
As with the 2016 LTIP awards, the Remuneration Committee proposes to make 2017 LTIP award grants subject to earnings before tax and Revenue performance conditions in respect of the retail business for the 2018 2019 financial year.
The other two performance targets relate to the platform business.
The first of these is linked to the operational efficiency of the platform solution for the 2018 2019 financial year.
The second of the platform business targets will be focused on expanding the Ocado Smart Platform business and specifically generating sales of the Ocado Smart Platform.
This target replaces the performance target used for the 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards concerning the cost efficiency of the platform solution.
This change to the LTIP performance targets reflects the Boards focus on rewarding the delivery of both a broader platform solution that includes store pick fulfilment and sales of the platform solution to new customers, while continuing to incentive improvements in operational efficiency.
Each performance condition will have a 25% weighting.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of performance condition has been achieved.
Full vesting will occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
The Company will disclose achievement against targets after the end of the performance period, provided such disclosure is not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
SIP The Executive Directors are expected to continue their participation in the SIP scheme in 2017.
Changes for Non-Executive Directors and Chairman The review of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman will be finalised in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
Shareholder Approval and Votes at AGM The 2016 Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
Entitlement of a Director to remuneration is not made conditional on this resolution being passed.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue on Directors remuneration and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report, the Directors Remuneration Policy or a new share scheme, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would detail in the announcement of the results of voting any actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result and also note this in the next annual report.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a vote against that exceeds 20% should be considered significant and requires explanation.
The table below sets out the actual voting in respect of resolutions regarding remuneration at the three previous annual general meetings.
com Directors Remuneration Report 115 Basis of Preparation and Audit Review This report is a Directors Remuneration Report for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016, prepared for the purposes of satisfying section 420 1 and section 421 2A of the Companies Act.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act and the Code, the Regulations, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
In accordance with section 497 of the Companies Act and the Regulations, certain parts of this Directors Remuneration Report where indicated have been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP.
A copy of this Directors Remuneration Report will be available on the Companys corporate website.
This Directors Remuneration Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Douglas McCallum Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ocado Group plc 31 January 2017 slugline 116 24883.04 Proof 1 1 February 2017 11:09 AM Our Financials 117 Independent Auditors Report Group 118 Consolidated Income Statement 125 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 126 Consolidated Balance Sheet 127 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 128 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 130 Independent Auditors Report Company 174 Company Balance Sheet 176 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 177 Company Statement of Cash Flows 178 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 179 24883.04 Proof 1 1 February 2017 11:09 AM
