Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 108 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED arrangements are designed to motivate In arriving at the award quantums included Directors and reward them for making the Company in the New Policy, we benchmarked total Remuneration Policy successful during the managed separation compensation against remuneration and maximising shareholder returns.
packages paid by peer group companies.
Introduction The peer group used for this purpose The New Policy was subject to a binding Under the New Policy, variable pay consisted of large insurers.
It is intended shareholder vote at a General Meeting arrangements will include a short-term that, going forward, the only element of held on 28 June 2016.
It was approved with incentive to reward the achievement of remuneration that will be benchmarked 81.71% of votes cast being in favour of its annually agreed business objectives, on an annual basis will be base pay.
adoption and took effect for a period of up and the MSIP.
No other grants of long-term The peer group will be kept under review to three years from the date of shareholder incentives will be made to the current to take into account different companies approval.
The New Policy in its entirety is executive directors under the New Policy.
that enter the market, those that change displayed on the Investor Relations section Executive directors will continue to be their size or the main characteristics of of the Companys website.
expected to retain a sufficient number of their business, and any changes to the The New Policy reflects our view of current the vested shares from legacy LTI, MSIP and nature or size of the Company during market practice and our remuneration deferred STI share awards, over a five-year the lifetime of the New Policy.
Fixed annual elements, period from the time of their appointment, including base pay and benefits, recognise to meet their respective shareholding the level of responsibility of our executives requirements, reinforcing the alignment and ensure current and future market between the executive directors personal competitiveness.
Variable pay returns and shareholder returns.
Directors Remuneration Policy table executive directors How the element supports Operation Maximum potential payout Performance measures used, our strategic objectives of the element and payment at threshold weighting and time period applicable Base pay Recognises the Paid in 12 monthly instalments Base pay is set in the range of peer None.
role and the Reviewed annually with any changes benchmark groups.
The maximum is responsibility for becoming effective from 1 January.
the top of the range of large insurers delivery of strategy Maximum annual increases will not and results.
normally exceed the average increase for the home country workforce.
Larger increases may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as an increase in scope or responsibility of the role, or salary progression for a newly appointed director.
