Strategic report Financial statements Governance 77 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE targets for all of the metrics used as to do so would give sensitive information to our competitors.
Where we feel able to disclose the targets we have done so in full, including all of the financial metrics.
In total, we have disclosed the targets for measures equating to around 80% of the annual bonus.
Remuneration for 2017 At the time of IPO in 2014 the Committee awarded the CEO, Andy Golding, a modest salary increase but did not MARY MCNAMARA fully align his total remuneration to market preferring CHAIR to phase any correction based on performance of both the individual and the Company.
As we were aware that the Company had the potential to evolve significantly by the final year of the remuneration policy, we purposely Dear Shareholder built flexibility into our remuneration policy allowing us to increase pay to reflect growth.
I am pleased to present the In both of the two years since IPO, we have moved Andy Goldings salary, but not other elements of pay.
A Committees report considerable gap still exists, therefore, to the market.
Given the performance of the bank, and the contribution of Andy Golding to that success, we are recommending As set out earlier in this Annual Report, the Bank has to increase Andy Goldings salary by 40,000 to 490,000 continued to perform well in 2016 despite macro- 8.9% together with an uplift to the long-term incentive economic headwinds.
We have now exceeded all of the from 100% of salary to 130% of salary.
These increases financial objectives which were set at IPO with 2016 are very well deserved in the context of performance and delivering continued earnings growth together with a though they do not bring the remuneration in line with strong balance sheet, a reputation for excellent customer that paid at our competitors we feel it is important to service and strong risk management.
close the gap and not to allow ourselves to become too far adrift from the market.
2016 INCENTIVE OUTCOMES The Executive Bonus Scheme is based on performance Targets attached to 2017 long-term incentive awards against a suite of measures with financial, customer, The performance conditions attached to the long-term quality, staff and personal metrics.
Targets for each incentive award are unchanged TSR relative to the measure were set at the start of the year and assessed constituents of the FTSE and EPS.
Our EPS targets remain by the Committee following year-end.
stretching in the context of our internal business plan together with external forecasts and the targets seen at 50% of this award will be deferred into shares under the other companies.
2017 LTIP awards will be subject to Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
These shares will be held for targets from 6% CAGR threshold performance to 12% a three-year period and are subject to strict clawback CAGR maximum performance.
While these have come and malus provisions.
down from those set immediately after IPO they reflect the development of the business together with the Annual bonus plan external environment in which we operate.
The Companys bonus scheme was designed to ensure that executives are rewarded for strong underlying Review of Directors Remuneration Policy performance which is sustainable over the long-term.
During 2017 we will be reviewing the Directors Bonus outcomes have been determined based on Remuneration Policy with a view to presenting the performance measures spanning four categories revised policy to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
We financial, customer, quality and staff with between willengage with major shareholders on any significant 3and10 metrics under each category in 2016 and 24 changes that we are proposing and seek feedback measures in total.
This has ensured a focus on overall onthem.
performance, aligning with the PRA and FCA Remuneration Code.
Membership I would like to thank Malcolm McCaig, who stepped down For 2017 we will maintain the focus on our key as a member and to welcome Rod Duke, who joined as a performance indicators financial, customer, quality and member during 2016. staff but will simplify the bonus and have fewer metrics in each area.
These changes will mean that, going forward, we will be able to disclose all of the targets in MARY MCNAMARA the Companys scorecard.
Chair 16 March 2017 Due to the granularity of the 2016 measures, the Committee does not feel that it is possible to disclose the 78 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED INTRODUCTION This section sets out details of the remuneration which the Executive and Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman received in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016 together with the operation of the Committee over the same period.
The annual report on remuneration will, in conjunction with the annual statement of the Committee Chair on pages 77 to 90, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 10 May 2017.
Where required, data has been audited by KPMG LLP and this is indicated where appropriate.
In preparing this report consideration has been given to the GC100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The Committee met nine times during the year.
Mary McNamara Chair, Rod Duke and Nathan Moss are members.
Malcolm McCaig ceased to be a Director and member on 31 December 2016.
The attendance of individual Committee members, is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Board considers each of the members of the Committee to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available on the Companys website or on request by shareholders.
In summary, the duties of the Committee include: Pay for employees under the Committees purview: Setting the Remuneration Policy Determine the total individual remuneration including salary increases, bonus opportunities and outcomes and LTI awards Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve total annual payments made under such schemes Employees under the Committees purview includes Executive Directors: the Chairman of the Board: the Company Secretary: and all employees that are identified as Code Staff for the purposes of the PRA and FCAs Dual Regulated Remuneration Code Code Staff and the PRA Code respectively.
The Committee will consult with the Chairman of the Board and or Chief Executive Officer CEO, as appropriate, and will seek input from the Risk Committee to ensure that any remuneration or pay scheme reflect the Companys risk appetite and profile and takes into account current and potential future risks.
In carrying out its duties the Committee takes into account any legal requirements, the PRA Code, UK Corporate Governance Code and UK Listing Rules.
KEY MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Key issues reviewed and discussed by the Committee during the year included: For staff under the Committees purview Review and approve 2016 salary increases Review and approve 2015 bonus awards Agree 2015 awards size and targets for grants under the Performance Share Plan granted in 2016 Consider shareholder feedback on remuneration proposals Consider and approve the 2015 directors remuneration report Consider market trend and regulation updates Review structure of annual bonus Review remuneration policy ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE New Bridge Street part of Aon plc served as remuneration consultants to the Committee during the year.
Aon plc provided advice on all aspects of executive remuneration including development of remuneration policy, guidance on performance metrics and benchmarking exercises.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street for work in 2016 were 51,300.
New Bridge Street was appointed by the Committee as its adviser in 2014.
Neither New Bridge Street nor Aon plc have any other connection with the Group and therefore the Committee is satisfied that it provides objective and independent advice.
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by the voluntary code of conduct of that body, which is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
The Committee also takes input on senior executive remuneration from the Chief Financial Officer CFO and Group Head of Human Resources.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary advises the Committee in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code, share schemes and also acts as Secretary to the Committee, ensuring that the Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference.
No individual is present in discussions directly relating to their own pay.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 79 EXECUTIVE PAY OUTCOMES FOR 2016 2016 SALARY In spring 2016, the Committee reviewed the base salaries of the Executive Directors.
This review took into account the salary increase budgets for other employees, the performance and experience of the Directors and the performance of the Bank as a whole together with the relative pay levels and practice in other listed companies of a similar size both within the financial services sector and the wider market.
As a result of the continued growth of the Company, both the CEO and CFO salaries remained below competitive external levels.
The Committee considered that in light of this positioning, combined with strong corporate and individual performance, adjustments should be made to bring them closer to market levels.
Accordingly, the Committee increased the base salary for the CEO by 9.8% and the base salary for the CFO by 6.9%.
Salary paid in the year was therefore: Salary from 1 January Salary from 2016 1 April 2016 Total salary 31 March 31 December paid in Executive 2016 2016 2016 Andy Golding 410,000 450,000 440,000 April Talintyre 290,000 310,000 305,000 2016 PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS Executives received pension payments totalling 13% of salary 57,000 for Andy Golding and 40,000 for April Talintyre.
Payments were either made into the defined contribution scheme or as a cash allowance.
EXECUTIVE BONUS SCHEME: 2016 COMPANY PERFORMANCE AUDITED In 2016, the bonus plan operated on a similar basis to previous years with a wide range of performance metrics covering all aspects of performance.
Consistent with the approach taken last year, we believe that some of the measures contained in the scorecard remain commercially sensitive beyond the end of the performance period.
That said, the Committee is committed to being as transparent as possible and aims to provide shareholders with sufficient data to judge the resulting outcomes.
To that end, we have sought to provide all information on the 2016 targets which is not commercially sensitive.
The targets disclosed account for around 80% of the scorecard.
We have simplified our 2017 Executive Bonus Scheme such that we expect to be able to disclose performance on all measures.
The measures for 2017 are set out on page 83.
2 Targets 1 Category Key Performance Indicator Threshold Budget Max Actual result Financial 35% Annual underlying PBT m 119 123 131 137 All-in Return on equity whole book 27% 28% 30% 29% Annual cost to income ratio 28.4% 27.4% 25.4% 27% 3 CET1 ratio 10.15% 10.4% 10.9% 13.3% 4 Customer 15% Customer satisfaction 28% 30% 34% 59% 5 Broker satisfaction 37.5% 40% 45% 48% 6 Monthly complaints 0.80% 0.50% 0.10% 0.06% 7 Quality 15% Deficient internal audits 1 n a 0 0 8 Arrears 2.3% 2.0% 1.5% 0.6% 9 IT system up-time 99.0% 99.5% 99.7% 99.9% 10 High severity incidents 10 8 4 4 Staff 10% Headcount actual versus planned 89% 90% 93% 93.9% Regretted Attrition UK 13% 12% 10% 11.6% Regretted Attrition India 22% 20% 18% 17.3% Personal 25% The personal performance of both executives during the year was rated as outstanding.
Details on this are shown below.
Weightings for the individual elements are not shown as they vary by executives.
Weighting shown is as a percentage of total bonus 25% is based on personal objectives 2.
Threshold pays out at 25% of maximum and budget at 50% of maximum 3.
Excluding unverified profits & foreseeable dividends 4.
Average monthly customer satisfaction NPS 5.
Average monthly broker satisfaction NPS KRBS 6.
Average monthly complaints as % of total customers KRBS 7.
Total number of deficient red internal audits during year 8.
Average monthly originated good book arrears 9.
Average monthly IT system up-time 10.
Total number of high severity operational incidents 80 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED 2016 INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE The executive directors are allocated up to a maximum of 25% of their bonus based on their personal performance against agreed objectives, overlaid over the Boards appraisal of the Groups overall performance.
For 2016, the personal objectives for the CEO included setting the cultural tone from the top, sponsoring delivery of the change and project agenda for the group and management of executive and board budgets, coupled with an appraised assessment against required behaviours and quality and compliance matters.
Against these objectives, the CEO was rated as outstanding based on the significant change delivery, strong staff engagement, excellent customer metrics and robust cost management.
Accordingly, 25% out of a possible 25% was awarded for this element.
For 2016, the personal objectives for the CFO included delivering to timelines on our IFRS 9 and IRB project, co-sponsoring the Rochester 1 disposal and management of all finance and HR budgets, coupled with an appraised assessment against required behaviours and quality and compliance matters.
Against these objectives, the CFO was rated as outstanding based on the significant project delivery, the profit generated from the Rochester 1 disposal and strong departmental cost management.
2016 BONUS OUTCOME AUDITED This performance resulted in a bonus of 399,375 for the CEO and a payment of 270,475 to the CFO.
50% of the bonus will be paid in cash in April 2017 with the remaining 50% deferred into shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
These shares will be held for a three-year period.
There are no further performance conditions attached to this award however it is subject to clawback or malus in the circumstances set out in the Policy Report.
If the Executive Director leaves prior to vesting any entitlement to the deferred shares is forfeited unless for a good leaver reason such as redundancy, retirement or ill health.
2016 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE VESTING There were no executive long-term incentive plans which vested in 2016.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURES OF REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the years ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
Basic Amount salary Taxable Annual bonus Vested Executive Directors Year 000 benefits Pension bonus paid deferred LTIP Total Andy Golding 2016 440 13 57 200 200 0 910 2015 401 13 52 191 191 0 848 April Talintyre 2016 305 9 40 135 135 0 624 2015 284 9 37 130 130 0 590 The strong performance of the Company has led to a bonus of 85% of maximum for the CEO and 83% of maximum for the CFO.
Additional detail on the performance which was achieved relative to the targets is set out on page 79 of this report.
EXECUTIVE PAY OUTCOMES IN CONTEXT PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The table below sets out the percentage change in base salary, value of taxable benefits and bonus for the CEO compared with the average percentage change for employees.
For these purposes UK employees who have been employed for over a year and therefore eligible for a salary increase have been used as a comparator group as they are the analogous population based on service and location.
In 2016, this group formed the majority of OneSavings Banks OSB employees.
Average percentage change 20152016 Taxable Annual Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 8.89% 0% 4.74% UK employees 8.13% 0% 18.07% COMPARISON OF COMPANY PERFORMANCE AND CEO REMUNERATION The following table summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration and annual bonus pay-out as a percentage of maximum opportunity in 20132016: 2013 2014 2015 2016 Andy Golding Annual bonus as a percentage of maximum opportunity 92.5% 92.63% 93.00% 88.75% CEO single figure of remuneration 000 518 777 848 910 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 81 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The graph below shows the total shareholder return TSR performance of the Company over the period from listing to 31 December 2016 compared to the performance of the FTSE All Share Index.
This index is considered to be the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company is a member of this index.
As OSB has only been listed for a relatively short period 2.5 years the entire historical performance to date as well as the statutory requirement to show movement in performance between listing and financial year ends has been shown.
250 200 150 100 50 31 December 2013 31 December 2016 This graph shows the value, at 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in OneSavings Bank plc on admission 5 June 2014 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
OneSavings Bank plc OneSavings Bank plc daily return FTSE All Share Index RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY The chart below shows the Companys total employee remuneration including the Directors compared to distributions to shareholders and operating profit before tax for the year under review and the prior year.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit as a key financial metric used for remuneration purposes has been shown.
2015 2016 Total employee costs 21.7m 29.5m Distributions to shareholders 21.1m 25.5m Underlying profit before tax 105.9m 137.0m Total employee costs v PBT 20.50% 21.5% Average headcount 544 674 Average PBT per employee 194,669 203,264 OTHER DISCLOSURE ON 2016 EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR The table below shows the awards made to Executive Directors in 2016 under the performance share plans and the performance conditions attached to these awards: Percentage of Face value of awards released for award percentage Face value achieving threshold End of performance Performance Executive of salary of award targets period conditions Andy Golding 100% 410,000 25% 31 December 2018 EPS & TSR April Talintyre 100% 290,000 25% 31 December 2018 EPS & TSR 1.
The number of shares awarded was calculated using a share price of 2.53 the average mid-market quotation for the preceding 5 days before grant 2.
50% TSR versus the FTSE 250 25% vesting for median performance increasing to maximum vesting for upper quartile performance : and ii.
50% EPS 25% vesting for growth in EPS of 8% per annum increasing to maximum vesting for 15% per annum Deferred bonus awards of 191,000 75,356 shares and 130,000 51,374 shares were made to Andy Golding and April Talintyre respectively for performance in 2015.
These awards are not subject to any further performance conditions other than malus Clawback and will vest in Spring 2019.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters Value rebased 82 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS In 2016 OSB made a third annual award under the Sharesave scheme allowing all eligible employees to save a portion of their monthly salary with the option to use these savings to purchase shares at a pre-agreed price at the end of the exercise period.
For the 2016 grant, the maximum amount an employee could save across all plans was 500 per month for three and five years.
The exercise price was discounted by 20% from the share price on award.
The Executive Directors have the following interests under the scheme: Exercise period Number of options Market Granted price 31 exercised Exercise price December Beginning of forfeited 2016 Beginning End period lapsed End of period Executive Date of grant April Talintyre 2014 1.34 3.38 18-Jul-17 18-Jan-18 6,716 6,716 SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES The CEO is required to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to no less than 200% of salary 150% of salary for the CFO.
50% of any vested share awards must be retained until the guideline is achieved.
STATEMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED INFORMATION Total shares owned by executives: Interests Interests in share in share incentive incentive schemes schemes awarded awarded subject to without performance Shareholding Current Total interest Shares performance conditions requirement shareholding in shares at owned at conditions at as at percentage percentage 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December of basic of basic 2016 2016 2016 2016 salary salary Andy Golding 2,137,951 1,650,000 154,663 333,288 200% 1,239% April Talintyre 921,325 579,415 106,280 235,630 150% 632% 1.
Includes shares in OSB Holdco Limited 2.
Shareholding based on the closing share price on 31 December 2016 3.38 and year end salaries 3.
There were no changes to directors interests in the Companys shares during the period 31 December 2016 to 16 March 2017 EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS Andy Golding is a Director trustee of Building Societies Trust Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Kreditech Holding SSL GmbH, and receives no remuneration for these positions.
PAYMENTS TO DEPARTING DIRECTORS During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors: neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2017 As set out in the Chairs letter on page 77, the CEOs salary will be increased by 40,000 to 490,000 8.9%.
The salary for the CFO will be increased by 6% to 328,600.
There will be a modest raise to the car allowance to 20,000 for the CEO and 15,000 for the CFO in line with changes made to other employees below the Board.
Other benefits and pension provisions will remain unchanged.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 83 ANNUAL BONUS AND DEFERRED SHARE BONUS PLAN For 2017 we have reduced the number of measures in the Company scorecard while retaining the original structure of the bonus and operation of the plan as outlined in the policy report.
The performance measures in the 2017 annual bonus are: Financial Customer Quality Staff Personal objectives 35% of bonus 15% of bonus 15% of bonus 10% of bonus 25% of bonus opportunity opportunity opportunity opportunity opportunity Annual Underlying PBT Customer satisfaction Deficient internal audits Diversity Vary by executive All-in ROE Broker satisfaction Arrears Employee engagement Details of objectives Annual cost income Complaints IT system up-time and performance ratio High severity incidents against these will be Net loan book growth disclosed CET1 Ratio retrospectively in next years report Performance targets will be set out in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum opportunity for the year ending 31 December 2017 will be 100% of salary for all Executive Directors.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Awards under the PSP will be made in March 2017.
Awards for the Executive Directors will be 130% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
The performance conditions that will apply to the 2017 awards continue to be EPS and TSR.
The performance targets: EPS element TSR element Percentage of that part Performance level 50% of total award 50% of total award of the award vesting Below threshold Less than 6% CAGR Below median 0% Threshold 6% CAGR Median 25% Stretch 12% CAGR Upper quartile 100% Pro rata vesting in between the above points IMPLEMENTATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY SINGLE TOTAL FIGURES OF REMUNERATION CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by the Chairman and each Non-Executive Director for the years ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
Total fees 000 2015 2016 CHAIRMAN Mike Fairey 150 161 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1 Graham Allatt 70 73 Eric Anstee 2 72 2 Andrew Doman 26 Rod Duke 80 77 3 Tim Hanford 60 60 2 Margaret Hassall 26 4 Malcolm McCaig 60 60 Mary McNamara 70 70 4 Dr David Morgan 60 60 Nathan Moss 60 60 5 Stephan Wilcke 60 22 TOTAL 672 767 1.
Additional duties were performed during the year 2.
Andrew Doman and Margaret Hassall joined the Board on 26 July 2016 3.
Fees paid to the major shareholder 4.
Malcolm McCaig and Dr David Morgan left the Board on 31 December 2016 5.
Stephan Wilcke left the Board on 11 May 2016 Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join the Company pension scheme.
84 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The Chairmans fee was increased to 165,000 in 2016.
This reflects the continued contribution and time commitment made by the incumbent to the role and brings the fee closer to the market level versus similar sized companies within the sector.
Other Non-Executive Director fees will remain unchanged.
Base fees 000 2015 2016 Chairman 150 165 Non-Executive Director 60 60 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 10 10 Audit Committee Chair 10 10 Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 Nomination Committee Chair 10 10 Risk Committee Chair 10 10 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED INFORMATION Shareholding as at 31 December Non-executive 2016 Graham Allatt 0 Eric Anstee 4,960 Andrew Doman 100,499 Rod Duke 94,537 Mike Fairey 30,000 Tim Hanford 0 Margaret Hassall 0 1 Malcolm McCaig 111,805 Mary McNamara 22,350 1 Dr David Morgan 0 Nathan Moss 0 2 Stephan Wilcke 50,000 1.
Malcolm McCaig and Dr David Morgan ceased to be Directors on 31 December 2016 2.
As at 11 May 2016 when Stephan Wilcke ceased to be a Director At the time of IPO, two current directors Mike Fairey and Rod Duke received awards of shares, some or all of which were required to be retained during the period for which they serve as directors.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, shareholders were asked to approve the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The votes received were: % of Votes % of Total Votes Resolution Votes for votes cast against votes cast votes cast withheld To approve the Remuneration Report 198,918,622 94.36 11,891,823 5.64 210,810,445 2,798,284 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 85 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT This policy report was approved at the 2015 AGM with a vote in favour of 97.2% and took effect from the date of approval.
It is reported here for information only.
The policy will apply for the three-year period following approval and the Company will present another policy to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The scenario charts have been updated based on 2017 salaries.
Policy overview This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Company and has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The policy has been developed taking into account a number of regulatory and governance principles, including: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 The Listing Rules The regulatory framework applying to the Financial Services Sector including the Dual Listed Remuneration Code and provisions of CRD IV The executive remuneration guidelines of the main institutional investors and their representative bodies.
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy The overarching principles of the Remuneration Policy for employees across the Group are as follows: Attract, motivate and retain high performing employees Adhere to and respond to the regulatory framework for the financial services sector and UK Listed companies more generally Strike an appropriate balance between risk-taking and reward Encourage and support a strong sales and service culture Reward the achievement of the overall business objectives of the Group Align employees interests with those of shareholders and customers Be consistent with the Groups risk policies and systems to guard against inappropriate risk-taking.
In respect of the Executive Directors and senior management, performance-related pay will form a significant but appropriate part of remuneration packages and there will be an appropriate balance between short and longer-term performance targets linked to the delivery of the Groups objectives.
The policy is intended to be delivered via a remuneration framework with the flexibility of being able to combine base salary, benefits, commission, annual bonuses and employee share plans.
The specific policy applying to Executive Directors is set out in the table and accompanying notes on page 86.
How we take account of risk in the Remuneration Policy Risk management is at the heart of our business, and underpins all our business decisions.
In the context of remuneration, the Committee takes account of risk in a number of ways, including: Ensuring that the balance of remuneration i. e. absolute pay levels and the balance between fixed and performance-related pay is appropriate to our business and risk appetite.
In the choice of performance metrics and time horizons applying to incentives, whereby a broad balance of measures is used across our plans.
The use of appropriate underpins and discretions to our incentive plans, allowing the Committee to take account of the wider risk management framework when judging the out-turn under incentive plans.
Having a significant proportion of performance-related pay deferred and paid in shares.
The inclusion of clawback and malus provisions on incentive pay, which may apply for a period of up to seven years following the end of the performance period.
As a Level 3 PRA regulated firm, we also take seriously the requirements of the Remuneration Code.
In the design of our Remuneration Policy, we have therefore responded to the evolving regulation in this area, including the application of the European Banking Authority cap on variable remuneration to Level 3 Code banks.
As a result, we sought shareholder approval to increase the cap on our variable pay to up 200% of fixed pay i. e. a 2:1 ratio, and our Remuneration Policy is designed to operate within this cap.
How the views of shareholders and employees are taken into account The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but receives periodic updates from the Group Head of HR in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Company.
As set out in the policy table overleaf, in setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company and salary increases will ordinarily be in percentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the Committee is satisfied that the decisions made in relation to Executive Directors pay are made with an appropriate understanding of the wider workforce.
The Committee will seek to engage with shareholders and their representative bodies when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the Remuneration Policy.
In addition, we will consider any shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of Remuneration Policy.
86 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below and accompanying notes summarise the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions Maximum Salary To recruit and reward Paid monthly.
Average annual increases will executives of a suitable generally be broadly in line with calibre for the role and Base salaries are reviewed annually, with any the average of the workforce.
Higher increases may be awarded in response to acute Recognises individuals No performance conditions apply to the payment retention issues, an increase in experience, of salary.
However, when setting salaries, account the scope of the role, following responsibility and is taken of an individuals specific role, duties, the appointment of a new performance.
experience and contribution to the organisation.
executive which could also include internal promotions to As part of the salary review process, the bring that executives package in Committee takes account of the external market line with market over a number for UK listed companies both in the Financial of years or in response to market Services sector and across all sectors, in order to factors.
ensure that salary positioning is appropriate.
Whilst this is not the key driver of salary increases, it provides important background context.
Benefits To provide market The Company provides: There is no maximum cap on competitive benefits to car allowance 12,000 and 8,000 for the CEO benefits, as the cost of benefits ensure the well-being of and CFO respectively : may vary according to the employees.
life assurance: external market but the nature income protection: and of the benefits themselves will private medical insurance.
Pension To provide retirement Directors may participate in a defined contribution Up to 13% of salary, subject to planning to employees.
plan, or, if they are in excess of the HMRC annual or employee matching.
lifetime allowances for contributions, may elect to receive cash in lieu of all or some of such benefit.
Annual To incentivise and The annual bonus targets will have at least a 75% The maximum bonus bonus reward individuals for weighting based on performance under an agreed opportunity is 100% of salary.
the achievement of balanced scorecard which includes an element of pre-defined, Committee risk appraisal.
The remaining balance will be based approved, annual on personal performance targets.
financial and operational objectives The objectives in the scorecard, and the which are closely linked weightings on each element will be set annually, to the corporate and may be flexed according to role.
will be assessed independently, but with Committee discretion to reduce the resulting outcome.
Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and a summary of performance against them will normally be provided in the annual report on remuneration.
50% of any bonus paid will be made in shares under the OSB DSBP.
These deferred shares will vest after three years, provided that the executive remains in employment at the end of the three year period.
Clawback malus provisions apply, as described in note 1 below.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 87 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions Maximum Performance To incentivise and PSP awards will be made annually at the discretion The PSP has a grant limit of Share Plan recognise execution of of the Committee, usually following the 200% of salary.
the business strategy announcement of full-year results.
Actual awards may be lower Normally, policy awards will be made to Executive than this, and will comply with Rewards strong Directors and the senior leadership team, based any overall regulation over the financial performance on a mixture of internal financial performance permitted level of variable pay.
Any vesting will be subject to an underpin, whereby the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the business has operated within the Boards risk appetite framework.
This takes into account capital adequacy, liquidity, credit risk, operational risk and conduct and compliance risk.
The performance targets will be measured over three financial years.
Clawback and malus provisions apply and are structured as for the annual bonus.
All-employee All employees including Tax favoured plan under which regular monthly Maximum permitted savings share Executive Directors are savings may be made over a three or five year based on HMRC limits from time incentive encouraged to become period and can be used to fund the exercise of an to time.
plan shareholders through option, where the exercise price is discounted by Sharesave the operation of an up to 20%.
Provides tax advantages to UK employees, with Executive Directors eligible to participate on a similar basis to other employees.
Share To increase alignment Executives must retain at least 50% of the shares At least 200% of salary for the ownership between executives and acquired on vesting of any share awards net of CEO and at least 150% of salary guidelines shareholders.
tax until the required holding is attained.
for the CFO or such higher level as the Committee may Executive Directors are determine from time to time.
expected to build and maintain a minimum holding of shares.
Clawback and malus provisions apply to both the annual bonus and PSP.
These provide for incentive recovery in the event of the discovery of a material misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of bonus outcome, significant failure of risk management, regulatory censure or in instances of individual gross misconduct discovered within five years of the end of the performance period.
A further two years may be applied following such a discovery, in order to allow for the investigation of any such event.
In order to affect any such clawback, the Committee may use a variety of methods: with-hold deferred bonus shares, future PSP awards or cash bonuses, or seek to recoup cash already paid A description of how the Company implemented the policy set out in this table in 2016, and how it intends to implement it in 2017, is set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Choice of performance measures for Executive Directors awards The use of a balanced scorecard for the annual bonus reflects the balance of financial and non-financial business drivers across the Company.
The combination of performance measures ties the bonus plan to both the delivery of financial targets and strategic personal objectives.
This ensures there is an appropriate focus on the balance between financial and non-financial targets, with the scorecard composition being set by the Committee from year to year depending on the corporate plan.
The PSP is based on a mixture of financial measures and relative TSR, in line with our key objectives of sustained growth in earnings leading to the creation of shareholder value over the long term.
TSR provides a close alignment between the relative returns experienced by our shareholders and the rewards to executives.
There is an underpin in place to address risk in the business, taking into account capital adequacy, liquidity, credit risk, operational risk and conduct and compliance risk.
In line with HMRC regulations for such schemes, the Sharesave Plan does not operate performance conditions.
88 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED How the Remuneration Committee operates the variable pay policy The Committee operates the share plans in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of certain plans, including: Who participates in the plans When to make awards and payments how to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest The testing of a performance condition over a shortened performance period How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Whether a participant is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes, what proportion of an award vests at the original vesting date or whether and what proportion of an award may vest at the time of leaving How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for special dividends What the weighting measures and targets should be for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust existing targets and or set different measures for the annual bonus and for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the targets are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so they can achieve their original intended purpose and provided the new targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
AWARDS GRANTED PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE Authority has been given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with Directors that were entered into prior to the effective date of this policy.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Remuneration Policy for other employees The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and ensures that policies at and below the executive level form a coherent whole.
There are no significant differences in the overall remuneration philosophy, although pay is generally more variable and linked more to the long term for those at more senior levels.
The Committees primary reference point for the salary reviews for the Executive Directors is the average salary increase for the broader workforce.
A highly collegiate approach is followed in the assessment of annual bonus, with our corporate scorecard being used to assess bonus outcomes throughout the organisation, with measures weighted according to role, where relevant.
Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards performance-related pay than for other employees.
In particular, performance-related long-term incentives are not provided outside of the most senior executive population as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall levels of performance.
Although PSP is awarded only to the most senior managers in the Group, the Company is committed to widespread equity ownership.
Accordingly, in 2014, our Sharesave Plan offer was launched for all employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in this plan on the same basis as other employees.
Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The chart below illustrates how the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages, as it is intended the policy will be implemented in 2016, would vary under various performance scenarios.
Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the Remuneration 000s annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP thus 2,000 only fixed pay salary, benefits and pension are payable 2.
At on-target, half of the annual bonus is earned i. e. 50% of salary 1,701 and 25% of salary is achieved under the LTIP i. e. 25% of maximum 3.
At maximum full vesting is achieved under both plans i. e. 100% of 1,500 salary.
Share price growth is ignored 4.
All-employee share plan participation is ignored 1,044 978 1,000 633 574 500 386 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO CFO n Fixed pay n Long-term incentives n Annual bonus Strategic report Financial statements Governance 89 SERVICE CONTRACTS The terms and provisions that relate to remuneration in the Executive Director service agreements are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months on either side Termination payments A payment in lieu of notice may be made on termination to the value of their basic salary at the time of termination.
Such payments may be made in instalments and in such circumstances can be reduced to the extent that the Executive Directors mitigate their loss.
Rights to DSBP and PSP awards on termination are shown below.
The employment of each Executive Director is terminable with immediate effect without notice in certain circumstances, including gross misconduct, fraud or financial dishonesty, bankruptcy or material breach of obligations under their service agreements.
Remuneration Salary, pension and core benefits are specified in the agreements.
There is no contractual right to participate in the annual bonus plan or to receive long-term incentive awards.
Post-termination These include six-month post-termination restrictive covenants against competing with the Company: restrictions nine month restrictive covenants against dealing with clients or suppliers of the Company: Nine-month restrictive covenant against soliciting clients, suppliers and key employees.
Contract date Andy Golding 19 May 2014, April Talintyre 19 May 2014 Unexpired term Rolling contracts PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Annual bonus on termination On termination, executives will be contractually entitled to salary over their notice period.
Payments may be phased and subject to mitigation.
There is no automatic contractual right to bonus payments.
For good leavers, the Remuneration Committee may elect to pay a pro-rata bonus for the period of employment at its discretion and based on full year performance.
PSP on termination Share-based awards normally lapse on termination.
In certain good leaver situations, awards would normally be time pro-rated taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met if the executive is a good leaver.
In the event that any departure is made from this default treatment of good leavers, the Committees rationale would be set out in the annual report on remuneration.
The Company may also pay reasonable legal costs in respect of any compromise settlement.
In determining good leaver status, best practice would be to stay within definitions of scheme rules i. e. death, ill health, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, or the employing business being sold out of the Group.
However, as is permitted under the rules, the Remuneration Committee will need to retain flexibility for the range of potential different circumstances, taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure.
Where an executive is determined as a good leaver by the Committee, this discretion and a rationale for the determination will be set out in the remuneration report.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for a new Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved Remuneration Policy and subject to any prevailing limits imposed by the PRA Code.
Currently, this would facilitate annual bonus of 100% of salary and PSP award of up to 200% of salary lower if the regulatory framework prescribes this.
On recruitment, salary policy may but need not necessarily be set below the normal market rate, with phased increases as the executive gains experience.
The rate of salary should be set so as to reflect the individuals experience and skills.
In addition on recruitment, the Company may compensate for amounts foregone from a previous employer using cash awards, the Companys share plans or awards under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 as may be required taking into account the quantum foregone: the extent to which performance conditions apply: form of award: and the time left to vesting.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of their prior role should be allowed to pay out broadly according to its terms.
Any other on-going remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
90 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED For all appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain appropriate relocation costs.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
External appointments Executive Directors may accept directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies with the consent of the Board who will consider in particular the time commitment required.
It is also at the discretion of the Board as to whether the Executive Director will be able to retain any fees from such an appointment.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration The Company has a Non-Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Seven are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
One of the Non-Executive Directors, Tim Hanford, was nominated by the major shareholder OSB Holdco Limited in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement, further details of which are given on page 63.
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table summarises the key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To attract and retain a The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are There is no prescribed maximum high-calibre Chairman entitled to an annual fee, with supplementary fees annual increase.
The Committee and Non-Executive payable to the Chair of the Audit, Remuneration, is guided by the general increase Directors by offering a Nomination and Risk Committees and for acting as in the Non-Executive market but market competitive fee the Senior Independent Director.
on occasions may need to level.
recognise, for example, change Fees are reviewed annually.
in responsibility and or time commitments.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of travel and other reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties The level of these fees will be reviewed annually by the Board.
Letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors, apart from the J. C. Flowers Director are appointed by letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms are: Provision Policy Period of appointment Initial three-year term.
Notice periods Three months on either side The appointments are also terminable with immediate effect and without compensation or payment in lieu of notice if the Chairman or Non-Executive Director apart from the JCF Director is not re-elected to their position as a Director of the Company by shareholders.
Payment in lieu of notice The Company is entitled to make a payment in lieu of notice on termination.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
JCF Directors Tim Hanford was nominated by the major shareholder.
His appointment will terminate in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the major shareholder will receive an annual fee of 60,000 from the Company in respect of each JCF Director that it appoints to the Board, in consideration for the provision of the Directors time and expertise.
Where the Relationship Agreement allows, the fees for the JCF Directors may be increased in line with other Non-Executive Director fee increases.
Tim Hanford does not receive fees for the provision of this service.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 16 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: MARY MCNAMARA Chair 16 March 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 91 DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER INFORMATION Share capital and rights attaching to shares The Company had 243,082,091 ordinary shares of 0.01 each in issue as at 31 December 2016.
2,126 ordinary shares were issued during 2016.
Further details relating to share capital can be found in Note 32.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights including preferred, deferred or other special rights or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
Authorities to allot and pre-emption rights At the 2016 AGM, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot up to 810,266 of the nominal value of ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
In addition, shareholders gave authority for the Directors to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into regulatory capital convertible instruments equivalent to 12% of issued share capital.
Repurchase of shares The Company has an unexpired authority to repurchase ordinary shares up to a maximum of 24,308,000 ordinary shares.
The company did not repurchase any of its ordinary shares during 2016 2015: none.
Employee share schemes The Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out on pages 82 to 83 in the Remuneration Report.
Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the statement of profit or loss on page 99.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.6 pence per share on 17 May 2017, subject to approval at the AGM on 10 May 2017, with an ex-dividend date of 30 March 2017 and a record date of 31 March 2017.
This is in addition to the 2016 interim dividend of 2.9 pence per share paid during the year 2015: 8.7 pence total dividend.
Directors interests Directors interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 82 and 84 in the Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors had interests in shares of the Company greater than 0.7% of the ordinary shares in issue.
There were no changes to Directors interests in shares since 31 December 2016.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to applying its equality and diversity policy at all stages of recruitment and selection.
Shortlisting, interviewing and selection will always be carried out without regard to gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, marital or civil partnership status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, age, pregnancy or maternity leave or trade union membership.
Any candidate with a disability will not be excluded unless it is clear that the candidate is unable to perform a duty that is intrinsic to the role, having taken into account reasonable adjustments.
Reasonable adjustments to the recruitment process will be made to ensure that no applicant is disadvantaged because of his her disability.
Line managers conducting recruitment interviews will ensure that the questions that they ask job applicants are not in any way discriminatory or unnecessarily intrusive.
This commitment also applies to existing employees.
Employee engagement Employees are kept informed of developments within the business and in respect of their employment through a variety of means, such as staff meetings, briefings and the intranet.
Employee involvement is encouraged and views and suggestions are taken into account when planning new products and projects.
The sharesave save as you earn scheme is open to all UK-based employees and allows them to save a fixed amount of between 5 and 500 per month over either three or five years in order to use these savings at the end of the qualifying period to buy the Companys shares at a fixed price established when the scheme was announced.
The Group launched its first sharesave scheme in June 2014 and granted further options under the scheme in June 2015 and June 2016.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions can be found on page 52 in the Strategic Report.
Political donations Shareholder authority to make aggregate political donations not exceeding 50,000 was obtained at the 2016 AGM.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries made any political donations this year.
92 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Notifiable interests in share capital At 31 December 2016, the Company had received the following notifications of major holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs: % of issued share capital OSB Holdco Limited 53.78% Old Mutual plc 12.08% No notifications have been received since 31 December 2016.
The details of a Relationship Agreement with the Major Shareholder is set out on page 63.
Annual General Meeting Accompanying this report is the Notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions to be proposed to the meeting, together with an explanation of each.
This years AGM will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard, 60 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4AG on 10 May 2017.
The meeting will start at 11.00am with registration from 10.30am.
Going concern statement The Directors have undertaken a going concern assessment in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk Guidance for UK directors of UK Companies 2014, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
As a result of this assessment, the Directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue to operate as a going concern for a period in excess of 12 months and have prepared the financial statements on that basis.
In assessing whether the going concern basis is appropriate, the Directors have considered the information contained in the financial statements, the latest business plan, profit forecasts and the latest working capital forecasts.
These forecasts have been subject to sensitivity tests and having reviewed the ICAAP and ILAAP the Directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period in excess of 12 months.
Key information in respect of the Groups strategic risk management framework, objectives and processes for mitigating risks including liquidity risk are set out in detail on pages 42 to 45.
JASON ELPHICK Group General Counsel and Company Secretary OneSavings Bank plc Registered number: 07312896 16 March 2017
