OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Appendix to the Directors remuneration report For information only: Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy as set out below was approved by the Companys shareholders at the Companys AGM held on 25 May 2016.
Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Base salaries are periodically While base salaries may be reviewed N A Base salary reviewed against companies annually, the Committee will not This is the core element ofsimilar size and complexity automatically award an increase of pay and reflects the andtheCommittee references both toreflect salary in-year inflation and individuals role and pan-sector companies of a similar may freeze salaries with consequently position within the market capitalisation and larger increases as and when an Group with some companieswithin the financial increase is awarded.
adjustment to reflect technology sector.
their capability and Given the need for a formal cap under contribution.
The Committee does not strictly the DRR regulations, the Committee follow data but uses it as a reference has further limited the maximum point in considering, in its judgement, salary increase which it may award the appropriate level of salary having toan Executive Director to 110% of regard to other relevant factors the median level of base salaries for including its assessment of sector that role in comparable companies.
differences, corporate and individual performance and any changes in an individuals role and responsibilities.
Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
The Executive Directors are entitled It is not possible to prescribe the N A Benefits to participate in similar benefits likely change in the cost of insured To provide benefits tothose available to employees benefits or the cost of some of the valued by recipients.
other reported benefits year-to-year, Inaddition, given the nature of but the provision of benefits will thePresident and CEOs role, the operate within an annual limit of Company meets the cost of certain 100,000 plus a further 100% of base expenses related to travel to the salary in the case of relocations.
Companys offices and related The Committee will monitor the costs accommodation costs which, in practice and ensure that the overall whilenecessary to the performance costs do not increase by more than of duties, can technically be classed the Committee considers appropriate asa benefit.
The Committee reserves discretion tointroduce new benefits where it concludes that it is appropriate to doso, having regard to the particular circumstances and to market practice.
Where appropriate, the Company will meet certain costs relating to Executive Director relocations.
Executive Directors can receive The maximum employers N A Pension pension contributions to personal contribution is limited to 20% To provide retirement pension arrangements, or if a ofbasesalary.
Director is impacted by annual or lifetime limits on contribution levels to qualifying pension plans, the balance can be paid as a cash supplement.
com 89 Appendix to the Directors remuneration report continued Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Annual bonus levels and the The maximum level of annual bonus The performance measures applied Annual bonus plan appropriateness of measures are outcome for any financial year may be financial or non-financial To motivate Executives reviewed annually at the is200% of base salary p. a. for the and corporate, divisional or and incentivise delivery commencement of each financial duration of this policy.
individual and in such proportions of performance over a year to ensure they continue as the Committee considers one-year operating cycle, tosupport our strategy.
focusing on the short to medium-term elements Annual bonus outcomes are paid in However, the annual bonus plan of our strategic aims.
cash following the determination of remains a discretionary arrangement achievement against performance and the Committee retains measures and targets.
However, the astandard power to apply its Remuneration Committee reserves judgement to adjust the outcome the ability to introduce deferral of ofthe plan for any performance upto one-third of bonus outcomes measure from zero to any cap during the period of this Directors should it consider that to be remuneration policy should appropriate.
individuals no longer comply with Once set, performance measures share ownership guidelines.
and targets will generally remain Malus and clawback provisions apply unchanged for the year, except to to the annual bonus plan as reflect events such as corporate explained in more detail in the notes acquisitions or other major to this table.
transactions where the Committee considers it to be necessary in its opinion to make appropriate adjustments.
Awards under the LTIP may be The LTIP allows for awards over The performance measures applied Long-term granted as nil-cost or conditional shares with a maximum value of to LTIP awards may be financial incentives awards of share options which vest 300% of base salary per financial ornon-financial and corporate, To motivate and tothe extent performance conditions year.
Where awards are not made divisional or individual and in such incentivise delivery of are satisfied over a period of at least inafinancial year due to regulatory proportions as the Committee sustained performance three years.
constraints, this limit will be carried considers appropriate.
over the long term, and forward.
to promote alignment Under the LTIP rules, vested awards Once set, performance measures with shareholders may also be settled in cash.
The Committee expressly reserves and targets will generally remain interests, the Group discretion to make such awards as unaltered unless events occur which, The LTIP rules allow that the number operates the LTIP.
itconsiders appropriate within these in the Committees opinion, make it of shares subject to vested LTIP limits.
appropriate to alter the performance awards may be increased to reflect conditions in such manner as the the value of dividends that would Committee thinks fit.
have been paid in respect of any dates falling between the grant of Performance periods may be over awards and the vesting of awards.
such periods as the Committee selects at grant, which will not be Awards for Executive Directors will less than but may be longer than not vest before the third anniversary three years.
of grant, with a further post vesting holding period applying to 50% of shares from vested awards 25% subject to an additional one-year period and 25% to an additional two-year period, subject to sales for tax where necessary.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to LTIP awards and are explained in more detail in the notes to this table.
The Company will honour the vesting of all share-based long-term incentive awards granted under previous policies in accordance with the terms of such awards.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 90 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Element and purpose Policy and operation Maximum Performance measures Executive Directors are expected 200% of base salary for all Executive N A Share ownership toretain all of the ordinary shares Directors.
guidelines vesting under the LTIP, after any To further align the The Committee reserves the power disposals for the payment of interests of Executive toamend but not reduce these applicable taxes, until they have Directors with those levels in future years.
achieved the required level of ofshareholders.
This is an all-employee share plan Sharesave allows the award of share Consistent with normal practice, All-employee established under the UK HMRC options to employees with savings of awards under Sharesave are not share plans tax-advantaged regime and follows up to 500 pcm and with the option subject to performance conditions.
To encourage share the usual form for such plans.
When price set at up to a 20% discount to ownership by offered outside the UK the plans are market value when the option is employees, thereby varied to reflect local legal and tax granted.
allowing them to share requirements.
in the long-term success of the Group and align Executive Directors are able to their interests with those participate in all-employee share of the shareholders.
plans on the same terms as other Group employees.
The Company has no fixed position Fees are paid monthly in cash.
N A Chairmans and regarding the benchmarking of Non-Executive The aggregate fees and any benefits Non-Executive Directors and the Directors fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Chairmans fees but will have regard To enable the Company Directors will not exceed the limit to equivalent benchmarks to those to recruit and retain from time to time prescribed within for Executive Directors.
aChairman and the Companys Articles of Association Non-Executive Directors The Company structures for such fees currently 2m p. a. of the highest calibre, Non-Executive Directors fees inaggregate.
toreflect the additional time Any increases actually made will commitments of chairing and being beappropriately disclosed.
members of Board Committees, and serving on the boards of subsidiary companies which are regulated entities.
Where Non-Executive Directors serve on Board Committees which are project-driven including due diligence and integration committees and or carry out other additional work, the Company will pay the individuals further fees atanappropriate daily rate.
Whilst there is no current intention todo so, the Company reserves the right to pay some or all of the Chairmans or Non-Executive Directors fees in the Companys shares.
Also, whilst at present there isno intention for the Chairman orNon-Executive Directors to participate in any benefits-in-kind, the Company reserves the right to permit this should it become in the view of the Committee the Board excluding the Non-Executive Directors in the case of the Non-Executive Directors necessary and appropriate.
com 91 Appendix to the Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the policy table 5.
Discretions reserved in operating incentive plans 1.
Malus and clawback under our policy Malus being the forfeiture of unvested awards and clawback The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and LTIP being the ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid according to their respective rules and the above policy table.
amounts as a debt provisions apply to the annual bonus and The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market LTIP if, in the opinion of the Committee, any of the following practice, in a number of respects in relation to the operation has occurred: and administration of these plans.
These discretions include: - There has been a material misstatement of the Companys - The determination of performance against targets and financial results which has led to an overpayment: resultant vesting bonus pay-outs: - The assessment of performance targets is based - Discretion required when dealing with a change of control onanerror or inaccurate or misleading information or restructuring of the Group: orassumptions: or - Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the - Circumstances warranting summary dismissal in the rules of the plan: and relevant period.
- Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructurings or special dividends.
Amounts in respect of awards under both plans may besubject to clawback for up to three years post payment orvesting as appropriate.
Stating maximum amounts for the remuneration policy The DRR regulations and related investor guidance encourage companies to disclose a cap within which each element ofthe Directors remuneration policy will operate.
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within the Directors remuneration policy, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative of any aspiration.
Travel and hospitality While the Committee does not consider it to form part ofbenefits in the normal usage of that term, corporate hospitality whether paid for by the Company or another and business travel for Directors and exceptionally their families may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee toauthorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Differences between the policy on remuneration for Directors from the policy on remuneration ofother employees Where Paysafes pay policy for Directors differs to its pay policies for other employees this reflects the appropriate market rate position for the relevant roles.
The Company takes into account pay levels, bonus opportunity and share awards applied across the Group as a whole when setting the Directors remuneration policy.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 92 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION All buy-outs, whether under the annual bonus, LTIP or Recruitment remuneration policy otherwise, will take account of the service obligations and The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give performance requirements for any remuneration relinquished the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment by the individual when leaving a previous employer.
and promotion of high-calibre executives to strengthen the TheCommittee will as far as practicable seek to make management team and secure the skill sets to deliver our buy-outs subject to what are, in its opinion, comparable strategic aims.
requirements in respect of service and performance.
In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will A new Non-Executive Director would be recruited on the be to apply the general policy for Executive Directors as set terms explained above in respect of the main policy for such out above and structure a package in accordance with that Directors.
Consistent with the DRR regulations, the caps Service contracts contained within the policy for fixed pay do not apply to new Executive Directors recruits, although the Committee would not envisage The Committees policy is that each Executive Directors exceeding these caps in practice.
service contract should be of indefinite duration, subject The annual bonus and LTIP will operate including the totermination by the Company or the individual with maximum award levels as detailed in the general policy in appropriate notice.
relation to any newly appointed Executive Director.
In the year The date of each Executive Directors service contract is: of appointment, the Committee may vary the terms of that years annual bonus and the performance measures to reflect Contract date the part year worked.
Joel Leonoff 15 March 2016 For an internal appointment, any variable pay element Brian McArthur-Muscroft 11 March 2016 awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its Joel Leonoffs service contract and Brian McArthur-Muscrofts original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment service contract can be terminated by either party upon 12 as appropriate.
Additionally, the Company has the right to terminate the service agreement with immediate For external and internal appointments, the Committee may effect at its sole and absolute discretion by making a suitable agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses payment equivalent to all salary and benefits for the notice as it considers appropriate.
period or the remainder of such period where notice has For external candidates, it may be necessary to make been served.
additional awards in connection with the recruitment tobuy-out awards forfeited by the individual on leaving The full service contracts are available for inspection at the aprevious employer.
Companys registered office during normal business hours and at its AGM.
For the avoidance of doubt, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal cap.
Any recruitment-related awards which are not buy-outs will be subject to the limits for annual bonus and LTIP as stated in the general policy.
Details of any recruitment-related awards will be appropriately disclosed.
For any buy-outs the Company will not pay more than is, inthe view of the Committee, necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under the terms of the existing annual bonus and LTIP.
It may, however, be necessary in some cases to make buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than the existing annual bonus and LTIP.
com 93 Appendix to the Directors remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors Each Non-Executive Director is engaged pursuant to a letter of appointment, the terms of which are summarised below.
The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation upon the termination of their appointment.
The full letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at its AGM.
Non-Executive Director Position Date of letter of appointment Term of contract Notice period Dennis Jones Chairman and Non-Executive Director 25 February 2016 No fixed term 3 months Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director 6 March 2017 No fixed term 3 months Andrew Dark Non-Executive Director 25 February 2016 No fixed term 3 months Ian Francis Non-Executive Director 25 February 2016 No fixed term 3 months Brahm Gelfand Non-Executive Director 25 February 2016 No fixed term 3 months Karen Guerra Non-Executive Director 6 March 2017 No fixed term 3 months Ian Jenks Non-Executive Director 25 February 2016 No fixed term 3 months Appointed to the Board effective 7 March 2017 Termination policy summary It is appropriate for the Committee to consider treatment on a and any treatments that the Committee may choose to apply termination having regard to all of the relevant facts and under the discretions available to it under the terms of the circumstances available at that time.
This policy applies both annual bonus and LTIP plans.
The potential treatments on to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination termination under these plans are summarised below.
If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver: If a leaver is deemed to be a bad leaver: for example, leaving through death or otherwise for example, leaving for disciplinary Incentives at the discretion of the Committee reasons or to join a competitor Other exceptional cases: e. g. change in control Committee has discretion to No awards made.
Committee has discretion to Annual bonus plan determine annual bonus.
Will receive a pro-rated award subject All awards will Will receive a pro-rated award LTIP to the application of the performance normally lapse.
subject to the application conditions at the end of the normal ofthe performance conditions performance period.
at the date of the event, subject to standard Committee retains standard Committee discretions discretions to either vary time tovarytime pro-rating.
pro-rating or to allow vesting after the date of cessation determining the performance conditions at that time.
The Company has power to enter into settlement agreements Statement of consideration of employment with Executives and to pay compensation to settle potential conditions elsewhere in the Group legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are in the event of termination of an Executive Director, the taken into account when setting Executive Directors Company may pay a contribution towards the individuals remuneration.
The Committee receives regular updates on legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a overall pay and conditions in the Group, including but not negotiated settlement.
Any such fees would be disclosed as limited to changes in base pay and any staff bonus pools in part of the detail of termination arrangements.
avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
External appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that these appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
The policy is for the individual Director to retain any fee.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 94
