OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE REMUNERATION MARTIN ANGLE, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee meets in accordance with an annual calendar to THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES DURING THE consider remuneration matters in respect of the Group and in FINANCIAL YEAR annual review of the pay and benefits policies and practices for particular is responsible for: the staff below Board level in the Group ensuring remuneration is aligned with and supports the annual executive salary review Groups strategy, reflects our values as a Group and optimises performance determining performance targets in respect of the Annual Incentive Bonus Plan for 2015 16 maintaining and reviewing the remuneration policy to ensure reviewing drafts of the Directors remuneration report for it remains appropriate to attract and retain high calibre people who are able to contribute to the success of the Group 2014 15 and recommending it to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2015 annual report, and reviewing early drafts advising the Board on the framework of executive of the Directors remuneration report for 2015 16 remuneration for the Group determining bonuses, deferred bonus awards and executive determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the share options pursuant to the Companys Annual Incentive Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior management of Bonus Plan in respect of the year 2014 15 the Group.
approving the Performance and Co-investment Plan awards for the year Members Appointment date Attendance reviewing the annual performance evaluation results of Martin Angle December 2008 6 6 the Committee Committee chairman approving the remuneration arrangements for the new Gerard Connell October 2003 4 4 Group Chief Executive Officer, the South West Water Neil Cooper September 2014 6 6 Managing Director and the Group General Counsel & Gill Rider September 2012 6 6 Company Secretary approving the release of the 2012 deferred bonus share Retired on 31 July 2015 awards and the vesting of executive share options pursuant to Two South West Water independent non-executive directors, the Annual Incentive Bonus Plan Martin Hagen and Steve Johnson, attended the last two determining the outcome of the 2012 Performance and Committee meetings of the year in preparation for the revised Co-investment Plan awards.
governance structure detailed on page 62.
THE COMMITTEES FOCUS FOR 2016 17 The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders monitor the alignment of executive pay and benefits with the at the Companys 2014 AGM and no changes are proposed to the strategic direction of the Group policy at this years AGM.
following the acquisition of Bournemouth Water and the bringing on stream of the ERFs, ensure incentive criteria is properly aligned with the Groups objectives review the remuneration policy in preparation for its submission for approval to shareholders at the 2017 AGM after the conclusion of the three-year approval period of the OUR REMUNERATION POLICY current policy to ensure it is aligned with the Groups strategy IS DESIGNED TO SUPPORT OUR going forward.
GROUP STRATEGY AND PROVIDE STRETCHING INCENTIVES FOR OUR MANAGEMENT TO PERFORM IN THE INTERESTS OF MAXIMISING SHAREHOLDER VALUE WHILST ENSURING THE LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF THE GROUP.
co. uk 2016 75 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION BOARD COMMITTEES REPORTS CONTINUED THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE The Committees terms of reference, setting out full details of the role and responsibilities of the Committee in accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, is available on our website www.
co. uk In accordance with the Code, all of the Committee members are independent Non-executive Directors, and the Committee is advised by Deloitte, an independent remuneration consultant, to ensure remuneration is determined impartially.
The Chairman of the Board is a regular attendee but not a member of the Committee and, following his appointment, the Group Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend meetings except for such part of a meeting when matters concerning his own remuneration are to be discussed.
For 2016 17 two South West Water independent non-executive directors will attend meetings of the Committee and contribute to discussions.
They will contribute to the setting of the remuneration policy for the whole Group whilst being responsible for leading on remuneration matters concerning South West Water.
This Directors remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also complies with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The UK Corporate Governance Code also sets out principles of good governance relating to directors remuneration, and this report describes how these principles are applied in practice.
The Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
The above regulations also require the external auditor to report to shareholders on the audited information within the annual report on remuneration which is part of the Directors remuneration report.
The external auditor is obliged to state whether, in its opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The external auditors opinion is set out on page 112 and the audited sections of the annual report on remuneration are identified in this report.
76 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
