OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION The current Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM on 31 July 2014.
The Committees intention is to seek approval for the remuneration policy at the end of the normal three year cycle, in line with the remuneration reporting requirements.
We are therefore not seeking approval for our remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee will undertake a review of the policy during 2016 17 which will then be submitted for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
The remuneration policy tables for Executive and Non-executive Directors are set out below for shareholder information.
They have been reproduced as approved at the 2014 AGM with the exception of updating to reflect Director changes: additional wording on malus, clawback and the holding period introduced in 2015 in the Groups Performance and Co-investment Plan: and minor and inconsequential changes.
The Directors remuneration policy is displayed on the Companys website www.
co. uk about-us  and is available upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
FUTURE POLICY TABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below sets out the elements of the total remuneration package for the Executive Directors which are comprised in this Directors remuneration policy.
How the component operates How the component supports including provisions for the strategic objectives of recovery or withholding of Maximum potential value of the Description of framework the Company any payment component used to assess performance BASE SALARY Set at a competitive level to attract Salaries are generally reviewed When reviewing salaries the None, although individual appropriate candidates to meet annually and any changes are Committee has regard to the and Company performance Companys strategic objectives normally effective from 1 April following factors: are factors considered when and to aid retention.
In normal circumstances reviewing salaries.
salary increases generally for all salary increases will not be employees in the Company and materially different to general the Group employee pay increases but there market rates may be exceptions such as where performance of the individual there has been the recruitment and the Company of a new Executive Director at an other factors it initially lower salary.
There is no overall maximum.
BENEFITS Benefits are provided that are Benefits currently include the The cost of insurance benefits may None.
consistent with the market and provision of a company vehicle, vary from year to year depending level of seniority and which aid fuel, health insurance and life on the individuals circumstances.
retention of key skills to assist in assurance.
Other benefits may There is no overall maximum meeting strategic objectives.
be provided if the Committee benefit value but the Committee considers it appropriate.
aims to ensure that the total value In the event that an Executive of benefits remains proportionate.
Director is required to relocate, relocation benefits may be provided.
co. uk 2016 79 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE POLICY TABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED How the component operates How the component supports including provisions for the strategic objectives of recovery or withholding of Maximum potential value of the Description of framework the Company any payment component used to assess performance ANNUAL BONUS Linked to achievement of key Annual bonuses are paid following The maximum bonus potential Performance targets relate performance objectives aligned to finalisation of the financial results for each Director is 100% of to corporate and personal the strategy of the Company.
for the year to which they relate base salary.
objectives, which are reviewed and paid usually three months after each year.
Normally at least 70% the end of the financial year.
relates to financial targets or quantitative measures.
A portion of any bonus is deferred into shares in the Company, which The measures, weighting and are normally released after three threshold levels may be adjusted years.
Any dividends on the shares Following the financial year-end during this period are paid to the Committee, with advice the Directors.
from the Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive The deferred bonus plan is Officer, except with regard operated in conjunction with to his own performance, and the Companys HMRC approved following consideration of the executive share option scheme outturn against target by the ESOS on the basis that the prechairman of the Audit Committee, tax value of awards under both are assesses to what extent the the same as if the deferred bonus targets are met and determines plan had operated alone.
In For bonuses awarded from the doing so the Committee takes 2014 15 financial year malus into account overall Company and clawback provisions apply.
performance and may adjust the These provisions permit net bonus upwards or downwards cash bonuses and or deferred for any specific factors such as bonus shares to be forfeited, exceptional outperformance repaid or made subject to further or underperformance.
conditions where the Committee considers it appropriate in the event of any significant adverse circumstances, including but not limited to a material failure of risk management, serious reputational damage, a financial misstatement or misconduct.
Clawback may be applied for the period of three years following determination of the cash bonus.
80 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FUTURE POLICY TABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED How the component operates How the component supports including provisions for the strategic objectives of recovery or withholding of Maximum potential value of the Description of framework the Company any payment component used to assess performance LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE AND CO-INVESTMENT PLAN Provide alignment to Annual grant of conditional shares The maximum annual award is The current performance shareholders and to longer-term or equivalent.
Share awards vest 100% of base salary.
conditions are based on total Company performance.
dependent upon the achievement shareholder return TSR with of specific performance conditions 50% based on TSR against the measured over a performance peer group index chosen because period of no less than three years.
these companies are regarded as the Companys key listed A grant is only made if the comparators and 50% based Director has acquired or is due on TSR against constituents of to acquire co-investment shares the FTSE 250 index excluding equivalent to one-fifth of the value investment trusts chosen because of the award.
this is the FTSE index to which Dividend equivalents including the Company belongs currently.
dividend reinvestment may be No more than 30% of maximum paid on vested awards.
vests for minimum threshold An underpin applies which allows performance, as described on the Committee to reduce or page 89 in respect of the current withhold vesting if the Committee forecast outturn for 2015 16. is not satisfied with the underlying The underpin evaluation includes operational and economic consideration of environmental, performance of the Company.
social and governance ESG Introduced for 2015 16 onwards factors and safety performance as well as financial performance.
For grants made from 2015 onwards malus and clawback The Committee will keep the provisions apply which permit performance measures under shares to be forfeited, repaid review and may change a or made subject to further performance condition for future conditions where the Committee awards if it was considered to considers it appropriate in be aligned with the Companys certain circumstances.
The interests and strategic objectives.
circumstances in which malus However, the Committee would may be applied include but consult with major shareholders in are not limited to material advance of any proposed material misstatement, serious reputational change in performance measures.
damage, or the participants misconduct.
The circumstances in which clawback may be applied are material misstatement or serious misconduct.
In addition a further two year holding period will apply in respect of any shares which vest at the end of the three year performance period.
Malus may be applied during the three year performance period and clawback may be applied up until the end of the holding period.
co. uk 2016 81 GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE POLICY TABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED How the component operates How the component supports including provisions for the strategic objectives of recovery or withholding of Maximum potential value of the Description of framework the Company any payment component used to assess performance PENSION Provides funding for retirement Defined benefit pension The maximum annual pension None.
and aids retention of key skills to arrangements are closed to new contribution or cash allowance assist in meeting the Companys entrants.
Defined contribution is 20% of salary.
pension arrangements have been Directors who commenced available to new staff since 2008. employment prior to April 2013 A cash allowance may be provided the maximum annual pension as an alternative and or in addition contribution or cash allowance is where pension limits have 30% of salary.
Legacy defined benefit pension arrangements will continue to be honoured.
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS To align interests of all employees Executive Directors may The maximum is as prescribed None.
participate in HMRC approved allunder the relevant HMRC employee plans on the same basis legislation governing the plans.
82 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FUTURE POLICY TABLE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below sets out the Companys policy in respect of the setting of fees for Non-executive Directors.
How the component supports the strategic objectives of the Company How the component operates Maximum potential value of the component FEES Set at a market level to attract Non-executive Fees are set by the Board with the Chairmans Total fees paid to the Chairman and NonDirectors who have appropriate experience fee being set by the Committee.
The relevant executive Directors will remain within the limits and skills to assist in determining the Directors are not present at the meetings stated in the Articles of Association.
when their fees are being determined.
Non-executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional fee for any specific Board responsibility such as membership or chairmanship of a Committee or occupying the role of Senior Independent Director.
In reviewing the fees the Board, or Committee as appropriate, considers the level of fees payable to Non-executive Directors in other companies of similar scale and complexity.
BENEFITS Benefits for the Chairman are provided which Expenses incurred in the performance of None.
are consistent with the market and level non-executive duties for the Company of seniority.
may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company including any tax due on the expenses.
The Chairman is entitled to expenses on the same basis as for other Non-executive Directors and, when appropriate for the efficient carrying out of his duties, is provided with a driver and vehicle.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The policy for Executive Directors service contracts is to provide for 12 months notice from either side.
The policy for Non-executive Directors letters of appointment is to contain three months notice from either side.
The policy for the Chairmans letter of appointment is to contain a six month notice period from either side.
