Remuneration Report Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Introduction Who is on the Remuneration Committee?
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
of meetings The Remuneration Policy was approved by our shareholders at Paul Moody Chairman 4 4 our 2014 AGM.
There are no changes to the Policy approved in Dennis Millard 4 4 2014, however, for ease of reference, this is set out in full for Tessa Green 4 4 shareholders information on pages 98 to 107.
The report is therefore split into two parts.
Amy Stirling 4 4 Our Annual Report on Remuneration, outlining how our Remuneration Policy was implemented in FY16 and how What we did in 2016 we intend to apply it for FY17.
This will be subject to an Carried out a review of the Groups remuneration practice to advisory vote at our 2016 AGM.
ensure in line with best practice.
A recap of our Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
No changes have been made to our Made recommendations to the Board on the remuneration Remuneration Policy this year and as such there will be no for each of the Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive resolution on our Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM.
Officers of the Retail Division and the Services Division and the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and approved any Remuneration principles resulting changes to service agreements.
Our Remuneration Policy recognises the importance of attracting and retaining high-quality talent with the skills and expertise Reviewed the performance of the Groups long term incentive necessary to support, deliver and drive our strategy.
The plans and approved awards to colleagues in the Group.
"Remuneration Committee ""Committee"" remains focused on Made recommendations to the Board on the remuneration paying for performance and aligning rewards of the Executive Management Team with the interests of long term shareholders, for a replacement Chief Financial Officer: and the interim whilst staying true to our Company values and recognising the Chief Financial Officer."
importance of widespread colleague share ownership.
Agreed the annual bonus targets for the Executive Management Overview of the work of the Committee in FY16 Team for FY16 and measured performance against them.
The past year has been a significant and busy year for the Group with a number of key changes including: What we will do in 2017 the creation of a divisional operating structure based around Review and approve the vesting of any Matching Awards Retail and Services, with the appointment of Ian Kellett as under the Co-Investment Plan for Early Leavers.
Chief Executive Officer of the Retail Division and Sally Hopson Approve the granting of awards under the Groups Long Term as Chief Executive Officer of the Services Division: Incentive Plans.
"the subsequent appointment of Ian Kellett as Group Chief Executive Officer ""Group CEO"" following the resignation of Nick Wood: Review the Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2017 the subsequent promotion of Peter Pritchard to the role of Chief Annual General Meeting of the Company."
Executive Officer of the Retail Division following his successful Agree the annual bonus targets for the Executive Management tenure as Chief Operating Officer in that division: and Team for FY17 and measure performance against them.
"the search for a replacement Chief Financial Officer ""CFO"" together with the appointment of Mark Adams as interim CFO Review the remuneration for each of the Executive following the mutual agreement that the original candidate would Management Team."
not be joining the Company.
Make recommendations on the remuneration for a Each of these changes has required support and recommendations replacement Chief Financial Officer.
from the Committee in setting an appropriate level of remuneration in line with the Groups remuneration principles.
As part of this, we undertook a detailed review of our remuneration framework to ensure that it remained aligned with best practice, whilst at the same time preserving the core values of our business.
"We summarise below the key decisions that were made on bonus structure, salary reviews and the performance conditions for the Performance Share Plan ""PSP"" and Company Share Plan ""CSOP"" to be granted to the Executive Directors for the first time in FY17."
Pets at Home Group Plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report We value the views of our Shareholders and we actively welcome any feedback on our Remuneration Policy and its implementation.
Performance related pay The Committee considers that the proposed targets are fully The Committee reviewed the performance of both the business and stretching and will ensure that significant reward is only available each Executive Director against targets set at the beginning of the for delivery of strong performance.
year for the annual bonus scheme.
For FY16 the annual bonus was Malus and clawback based on EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25% measured over the Last year, in response to its review of the UK Corporate Governance 53 week period.
Detailed information on the targets can be found Code, the Committee introduced clawback provisions into both the on pages 90 and 91 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Executive Directors annual bonus plan for the FY16 performance Both EBITDA at 127.4m and free cash flow of 71.6m with a 56% year and PSP awards from FY16 onwards.
Clawback provisions will cash flow conversion were above the minimum thresholds levels at which continue to apply to any bonus awards in FY17 and beyond and payments against these financial targets were triggered for Directors.
under any of the Companys executive share schemes going forward from 2016 onwards.
Details of this are provided on page 95.
As a result, the EBITDA portion of the annual bonus paid out at 47% of maximum equal to 35% of salary and the free cash flow Along with the malus provisions already contained on the PSP, element paid out at 100% of maximum equal to 25% of salary.
these provisions provide the Committee with the ability to reduce The overall bonus out-turns for our Executive Directors were 60% unvested share awards or take back bonus amounts or share of maximum salary.
The Committee considers that this fairly awards which had already been paid or vested under certain reflects the results for the year.
circumstances, including misconduct and misstatement of results.
Given the importance of protecting against payments for failure, Further information can be found on pages 90 and 91 of our these provisions apply to the Executive Directors, the Executive Annual Report on Remuneration.
Management Team and the Operating Board.
Remuneration proposals for FY17 Our colleagues Nick Wood resigned as Group CEO with effect from 4 April 2016, We have always recognised the importance of widespread share although he will remain with the Group in an advisory role until ownership and it remains an integral part of our culture.
This reflects 1 July 2016 to provide support and ensure a smooth transition.
His the principle that our colleagues are central to the achievement leaving arrangements will be in line with our Policy and further details of our strategy and we believe that share ownership enhances are provided on page 92 of our Annual Report on Remuneration.
In keeping with this ethos, the Committee The Committee also gave consideration to the remuneration approved the grant of a discretionary share award to every colleague arrangements for Ian Kellett following his appointment to the in the Group in June 2015 excluding the Executive Directors role of Group CEO.
There are no changes proposed to his variable and it is the intention that these grants will be repeated this year.
pay framework, whilst the Committee has taken the opportunity Following on from the successful launch of the Companys to reflect the promotion and significantly increased scope of Sharesave plan in 2014, for the 2015 plan the Committee also his responsibilities at this time by repositioning his salary to doubled the monthly sum that colleagues are permitted to save 475,000.
Further details are provided on page 95. from 250 to 500 and this will continue at this level in 2016.
There will be no change in pension provision or benefit entitlement Chairman for Executive Directors.
During the year under review, Dennis Millard stepped down as As set out in our Policy in 2014, Executive Directors will participate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I was appointed to in the PSP and the CSOP for the first time at the start of FY17.
Dennis was appointed as chair of the Committee during The main long term incentive plan for Executive Directors is the PSP, the IPO process and I would like to thank him for his contribution as although in line with the approach for all our employee participants, we transitioned into the public company environment.
we deliver an element of this under the CSOP to take advantage of Shareholder engagement HMRC-approved tax savings.
These plans have been operated for We value the views of our shareholders and we actively welcome below Board employees each year since IPO and the Committee any feedback on our remuneration policy and its implementation.
considers that it is appropriate to retain the current EPS and TSR We hope you find this report helpful and informative and we hope performance measures for this year, along with their respective to receive your support for our Annual Report on Remuneration at weightings of 75% and 25%.
"Taking into account internal forecasts for business performance over Yours faithfully the next three years, as well as external expectations of performance, the Committee proposes the following targets for the FY17 awards: 10% of the total award will vest for earnings per share ""EPS"" growth of 5% per annum, rising to 75% for EPS growth of 12.5% per annum: and 6.25% of the total award will vest for median TSR performance Paul Moody against the FTSE 350 UK General Retail Index, rising to 25% for Chairman of the Remuneration Committee upper quartile TSR performance against the Index."
25 May 2016 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration a Directors remuneration report on implementation for the year ended 31 March 2016 This section of the report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy Policy, approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 September 2014 and set out in the Appendix, has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 93 represents the audited section of this report.
b Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2016 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2016 based on a 53 week year.
All payments are in line with the Policy set out in the Appendix.
Long term Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus incentives Total Director FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 1 Nick Wood 446,165 425,000 11,721 11,500 43,905 38,250 262,650 315,711 218,152 n a 982,593 790,461 Ian Kellett 394,424 320,000 11,721 11,500 35,498 28,800 240,000 250,512 n a n a 681,643 610,812 1 The change in Nick Woods total remuneration between FY15 and FY16 is due to the inclusion of the 19.2% of the total Matching Award that Nick Wood will receive under the Co-Investment Plan equal to 218,152 as detailed below.
Base salary corresponds to the amount received during the relevant financial year.
Benefits corresponds to the taxable value of benefits received during the relevant financial year and principally includes company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension corresponds to either the amount contributed to personal pension plans or the cash value of the salary supplement received during the relevant financial year.
Executive Directors receive a Company pension contribution worth 9% of their salary or a cash allowance where the Annual Allowance has been reached.
Annual bonus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the relevant financial year.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
Long term incentives corresponds to the amount earned by Nick Wood in respect of the relevant financial year.
Performance outcomes The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in respect of FY16 was 100% of base salary.
The targets for the annual bonus for the financial year ended 31 March 2016, and the extent to which they were achieved, are as set out below.
For FY16, the annual bonus was based on EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25% and measured over a 53 week period.
The achievement of the EBITDA target is calculated on a straight-line basis between Minimum and Maximum EBITDA.
The Committee considered that the targets were stretching and required Executive Directors to deliver performance which significantly exceeded business expectations to achieve full pay-out.
Financial measures Minimum % base salary Maximum % base salary Actual % base salary EBITDA 127m 35% 134.5m 75% 127.4m 35% 54.7m with a minimum 40% 54.7m with a 50% cash 71.6m with 56% cash 1 Free cash flow cash conversion metric 15% conversion 25% conversion 25% 1 Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities, less net cash used in investing activities, interest paid and finance lease commitments.
Free cash flow is stated before loans issued, exceptional costs and acquisitions of subsidiaries.
Pets at Home Group Plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report The resultant percentages against each of the bonus measures achieved by each Executive Director are shown below: Nick Wood Ian Kellett Measure % of performance target achieved % of performance target achieved EBITDA 35% 75% 35% 75% Free cash flow 25% 25% 25% 25% Total 60% 100% 60% 100% Long term incentives Nick Wood tendered his resignation on 4 April 2016 and accordingly, in line with the early leaver provisions of the plan rules, up to 20% of his total Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan will be eligible to vest on his leaving date of 1 July 2016, subject to EPS performance measured up to the end of FY16.
Specifically, if EPS growth over the period from the FY14 base year to the end of FY16 measured over the 52 week period is: Below 10% per annum, none of the total Matching Award will vest: 10% p. a.
10% of the total Matching Award will vest: Between 10% p. a. and 17.5% p. a. between 10% and 20% of the total Matching Award will vest on a straight-line basis : and Above 17.5% p. a.
20% of the total Matching Award will vest.
Diluted EPS on underlying trading for FY16 is 15.0p based on a profit after tax before exceptional items of 75,518,000 for the 52 week period.
As a result, EPS growth over this period is 16.9% p. a. and as a result 19.2% of Nick Woods Matching Award will vest on 1 July 2016.
This equates to 83,264 shares with a value of 218,152, based on the average share price over the last three months of the performance period being the period from 1 January to 31 March 2016 which was 262p.
c Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2016 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board for the year ended 31March 2016.
Nomination & Corporate Pets Before Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Profit CSR Additional Committee Committee Committee Committee Total single Total single Basic fees fees Chairman Chair Chairman Chair figure 2016 figure 2015 1 Director Tony DeNunzio 200,000 n a n a n a n a n a 203,846 200,000 2 3 Dennis Millard 50,000 20,000 3,846 n a n a n a 75,192 80,000 Brian Carroll 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 50,962 50,000 Paul Coby 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 50,962 50,000 Tessa Green 50,000 n a n a n a n a 10,000 61,154 60,000 Amy Stirling 50,000 n a n a 10,000 n a n a 61,154 60,000 4 Paul Moody 50,000 n a 6,154 n a n a n a 57,308 50,000 1 FY16 was a 53 week year and so the total single figure for FY16 contains the additional payment over and above the basic fees for the 53rd week.
2 The additional fee paid to Dennis Millard is in respect to his position as Deputy Chairman of the Board.
3 The fee paid to Dennis Millard as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee relates to the period from the commencement of the year 27 March 2015 until his resignation on 9 September 2015.
4 The fee paid to Paul Moody as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee relates to the period from his appointment on 9 September 2015 until the year ended 31 March 2016. d Scheme interests awarded during the financial year No long term incentive awards were made to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
During the year, the Company repeated the Sharesave plan, providing eligible colleagues with an opportunity to receive share options at a 20% discount to the market price.
The maximum monthly savings was doubled from 250 to 500 per month.
The Executive Directors elected to participate in the Sharesave, along with 13% of eligible colleagues.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Options are, in normal circumstances, not exercisable until completion of a three years savings period, beginning on 1 December 2015 and will then be exercisable for a period of six months.
The exercise period will, therefore, in normal circumstances, be from 1December 2018 to 31 May 2019.
The Options were granted in the following amounts: Number of shares over which Face value of shares over which Executive Director Sharesave Option was granted Sharesave Option was granted Ian Kellett 3,913 9,000 Nick Wood 3,913 9,000 e Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office were made during the financial year.
Leaving arrangements for Nick Wood Nick Wood resigned from the Board with effect from 4 April 2016.
To ensure a smooth transition and provide support to the new CEO, the intention is that he will remain with the Group in an advisory role until 1 July 2016.
All payments made to him in respect of FY16 are reported in the single figure of remuneration.
Nick Woods service contract has a 12-month notice period and includes a provision for a termination payment in lieu of notice of up to 12 months base salary and contractual benefits only.
During the period of his notice that he is working full-time, Nick will continue to receive his current salary and contractual benefits.
Upon leaving the Companys service on 1 July 2016, he will not be entitled to any further salary and contractual benefits for any period of notice which is remaining.
He will not be entitled to an annual bonus in respect of FY17.
Nicks Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan will be treated in line with the early leaver provisions of the plan rules.
Under these, time pro-rating is applied such that a maximum of 20% of Nicks Matching Award is eligible to vest, subject to the satisfaction of the EPS performance targets at the end of FY16.
As set out on page 91, performance against these targets as at the end of FY16 was such that 19.2% of the total award will vest on Nicks leaving the Companys service being 1 July 2016. f Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors during the year.
g Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Committee believes that colleague share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of colleague interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors are closely aligned with those of other shareholders in this regard, through the operation of the Co-Investment Plan, which required participants to commit a significant amount of their IPO proceeds.
Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary, which should be built up over a period of five years.
A similar policy applies to the Executive Management Team.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually.
Pets at Home Group Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Number of shares Interests in share Interests in share incentive schemes, incentive schemes, Shareholding awarded without awarded subject to requirement Shares owned performance performance Shares owned as a % of salary outright at conditions at conditions at outright at 1 Director Target % achieved 31 March 2016 31 March 2016 31 March 2016 26 March 2015 2 Nick Wood 200% 3384% 5,505,571 10,341 433,673 5,505,571 Ian Kellett 200% 2723% 4,047,056 10,341 326,530 4,047,056 Tony DeNunzio 3,158,026 3,158,026 Dennis Millard 16,327 16,327 Brian Carroll 40,816 40,816 Paul Coby 4,082 4,082 Tessa Green 40,816 40,816 Amy Stirling 16,327 16,327 Paul Moody 27,470 27,470 1 For the purposes of determining the target shareholding achieved, we have used the individuals salary, the closing share price as at 31 March 2016 269.1 pence and the shares owned outright at the same date.
2 Nick Wood tendered his resignation on 4 April 2016 and accordingly, his Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan will be treated in line with the early leaver provisions of the plan rules.
Under these, time pro-rating is applied such that a maximum of 20% of Nicks Matching Award is eligible to vest, subject to the satisfaction of the EPS performance targets.
As set out on page 91, performance against these targets as at the end of FY16 was such that 19.2% of the total award will vest on Nicks leaving the service of the Company being 1 July 2016.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
h TSR performance chart The Companys shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities on 17 March 2014.
The chart below shows performance from that date until the end of FY16.
This disclosure will be expanded in subsequent years in line with the regulations.
120 110 100 90 Mar 2014 Mar 2015 Mar 2016 1 Pets at Home FTSE 350 1 The comparator group has been changed from the FTSE 250 index to the FTSE 350 since it is considered to present a more rounded picture of the performance of the UK listed market as a whole.
1 CEO 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2 CEO single figure of remuneration n a n a n a n a 19,460 790,461 982,593 Annual bonus payout as % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a 73% 75% 60% Long term incentive vesting 2 as % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a n a n a 96% 1 In FY14, the single figure of remuneration relates to the period 17 March 2014 to 27 March 2014.
2 Under the early leaver provisions of the plan rules, Nick Wood received 19.2% of his total Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan, as shown in the single figure table.
Given that this included time pro rating, with performance against the performance conditions being at 96% of maximum, the latter is shown here and the value of 218,152 for the Matching Awards as calculated under paragraph b above is included in the single figure of remuneration.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued i Percentage change in remuneration of the Group CEO The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of all colleagues: % change in base salary % change in base salary % change in benefits FY15 to FY16 FY15 to FY16 FY15 to FY16 Chief Executive 3 17 % 0 1 All colleagues 3 8 % 0 1 All colleague information is presented by comparing the average colleague information in FY15 to the average colleague information in FY16.
j Relative importance of the spend on pay The following table shows the relationship between the Groups EBITDA, distributions to shareholders and the total remuneration paid to all colleagues.
FY16 FY15 1 EBITDA 127.4m 119.6m Returned to shareholders: Dividend 27.9m 8.9m Payments to colleagues: Wages & salaries 143.6m 122.5m 1 The Committee considers that EBITDA is an important KPI for the Company and provides shareholders with additional context as to how the business has performed financially in the last two years.
The figures for FY16 are based on a 53 week period to 31 March 2016 and the figures for FY15 are based on a 52 week period to 26 March 2015. k Dilution limits In accordance with the ABI Guidelines, the Company can satisfy awards under its colleague share plans with new issue shares up to maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period and within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary plans.
l External appointments Executive Directors are entitled to accept one external appointment outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they receive a fee.
m Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment A summary of the Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment is contained on page 105 of the Policy contained in the Appendix.
Each of the Non-Executive's letters of appointment expires on 17 February 2017 apart from Paul Moody whose letter of appointment expires on 24 March 2017.
Pets at Home Group Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Statement of implementation for FY17 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our Policy in FY17.
Base salary As previously disclosed, to reflect his promotion to the role of Group CEO, Ian Kellett will receive a salary of 475,000, effective 4 April 2016.
The Committee considers that this is appropriate given the significantly increased scope of his responsibilities at this time, and taking into account a number of internal and external factors, including consistency with pay principles applied to the rest of the organisation.
Nick Wood resigned from his position on the Board as Group CEO with effect from 4 April 2016.
His salary for the period of FY17 up to this date was 437,750 paid on a pro rata basis for the period from 1 April 2016 to 4 April 2016.
Benefits The Committee sets benefits in line with the policy set out on page 98 of the Appendix.
There are no changes proposed to the benefit framework in FY17.
Pensions There is no increase proposed to salary supplement levels for the Executive Directors in FY17.
The table below shows salary supplements for FY17.
Executive Director % of salary Ian Kellett 9% Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in respect of FY17 will remain at 100% of base salary.
The annual bonus framework will be in line with that presented in the policy table on page 98.
As highlighted in the Chairmans letter, during the year the Committee reviewed the annual bonus framework for FY16, with a view to ensuring that it remains appropriate for the business.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate at this time to retain the framework that was put in place for FY16, so for FY17 the annual bonus will continue to be based on EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25%.
Although the targets remain commercially sensitive at this time, we will provide shareholders with full disclosure of the EBITDA and free cash flow targets in next years report.
As for FY16, the annual bonus will be subject to clawback provisions.
This provides the Committee with the ability to take back amounts previously paid out for a period of up to two years under certain circumstances, including misstatement and misconduct.
Long term incentive awards It is proposed that PSP awards will be made in June 2016 at 125% of salary for Executive Directors with the first portion of the award granted under the CSOP, as set out in our Policy : For 2016 awards, performance will be based on EPS 75% of the award and TSR 25% of the award : 10% of the total award will vest for EPS growth of 5% per annum, rising to 75% for EPS growth of 12.5% per annum: and 6.25% of the total award will vest for median TSR performance against the FTSE 350 UK General Retail Index, rising to 25% for upper quartile TSR performance against the Index.
The Committee considers that the performance measures are fully aligned with our strategy.
The Committee has set the targets to be appropriately stretching, with regard to a number of internal and external reference points, and considers that delivery of these targets should create sustainable value creation for shareholders.
Unvested and unexercised awards are subject to malus and clawback in case of misconduct or misstatement.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Sharesave The Company intends to operate the Sharesave scheme again for FY17.
The maximum monthly savings will be retained at 500 per month.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The table below shows the Non-Executive Director fee structure for 2016 17: 2016 17 Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 200,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 50,000 Board Committee Chairman fee 10,000 Deputy Chairman 20,000 There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees.
"The Remuneration Committee Shareholder context for the Committees activities During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP ""Deloitte""."
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
Total fees received by Deloitte in relation to the remuneration advice provided to the Committee during FY16 amounted to 29,350, excluding VAT, based on the required time commitment.
In addition, other practices at Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, have provided general tax advice to the Group during the year.
During FY16 the Committee also received support from Travers Smith LLP on the terms of the discretionary and all colleague share plans.
Committee membership and meetings The Directors listed below in the table served on the Committee during the year.
The Committee met five times during FY16 and the Committee members' attendance is also shown in the table below.
Member Period from: To: Meetings attended Paul Moody Chairman 27 March 2015 To date 5 Dennis Millard 27 March 2015 To date 5 Tessa Green 27 March 2015 To date 5 Amy Stirling 27 March 2015 To date 5 The individuals listed in the table below, none of whom were Committee members, attended at least part of the meeting by invitation during the year.
Attendee Position Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Board Brian Carroll Non-Executive Director Paul Coby Non-Executive Director Nick Wood Group CEO Ian Kellett CFO and CEO of Retail Nicolas Gheysens Board Observer Louise Stonier Group Company Secretary and Legal Director None of the individuals attended part of any meeting in which their own compensation was discussed.
Pets at Home Group Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Directors Remuneration Policy Governance The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout FY16 and up to the date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to Directors remuneration.
Shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 9 September 2015, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights was 500,000,000.
The resolution to approve the Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Votes Votes Votes % of Votes 4 Ordinary resolutions for % against % total ISC withheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 26 March 2015 396,348,408 99.88 460,066 0.12 396,808,474 79.36 176,710 Notes 1 Votes for include discretionary votes.
2 Percentages above are rounded to two decimal places.
3 Issued share capital at meeting date: 500,000,000.
4 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
Annual General Meeting As set out in my statement on page 88, our Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM to be held on 14 September 2016.
On behalf of the Board Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2016 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued a Policy Report The following section on pages 98 to 107 sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy, in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
This Policy was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 9 September 2014 and applies from that date.
It is currently intended that the Policy will apply for three years.
Overall remuneration is structured and set at levels to enable the recruitment and retention of high calibre executives and encourage them to enhance the Companys performance, in a responsible manner, in line with the businesss strategy and shareholders interests.
A significant portion of the package is performance related.
Remuneration has been set taking into account practice within the FTSE 250 and practice at other retail companies.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity Fixed elements base salary Core element Paid in cash and are pensionable.
Whilst there is no maximum salary level, of remuneration, any increases will normally be broadly in The Committee takes into consideration a number of factors when setting recognising the role line with the wider colleague population salaries, including but not limited to : and responsibilities within the relevant geographic area.
Size and scope of the individuals responsibilities: of the role.
Higher increases may be made under The individuals skills, experience and performance: certain circumstances, at the Committees Typical salary levels for comparable roles within appropriate discretion.
For example, this may include: pay comparators including practice for retail companies and Increase in the scope and or the broader FTSE 250: and responsibility of the individuals role: and Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Development of the individual within In FY15, basic salaries will be reviewed at the June Remuneration the role.
Subsequent reviews will take place annually Annual base salaries for the Executive at the March Remuneration Committee annually thereafter.
Directors are set out in Part 3 a of Any change will usually be effective from the first period of the following this report.
Fixed elements benefits To provide colleagues The Company provides a range of benefits, which may include: The cost to the Company of providing with market competitive other benefits may vary depending on, a company car or cash equivalent benefits.
for example, market practice and the cost life assurance of insuring certain benefits.
permanent health insurance The Committee keeps the level of benefit private medical insurance.
These benefits are not pensionable.
Details of current benefit provision for the Other benefits may be considered by the Committee, if considered Executive Directors are set out in Part 3 a appropriate.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, such as relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for other senior executives.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any tax-approved all colleague share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
Whilst it does not currently operate such a plan, the Company intends to introduce a Sharesave scheme during the term of this Policy.
Fixed elements pensions To provide colleagues Pension contributions are made to either the Group Pension Plan, The contribution level for an individual with an allowance for to personal pension schemes or cash allowances in lieu of Executive Director is capped at 9% of base retirement planning.
salary per annum for employer contributions.
Details of current pension provision for the Executive Directors are set out in Part 3 a of this report.
Pets at Home Group Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity Short term elements annual bonus To incentivise Delivery will normally be in cash and is not pensionable.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 100% the delivery of our of base salary.
Performance measures are set annually and pay-out levels are determined business plan on by the Committee after the year-end, based on performance against those 20% is payable for threshold performance an annual basis.
targets during the relevant financial year.
Each year, the Committee determines the measures and weightings within To reward the following parameters: performance against key performance At least 75% of the annual bonus will be based on financial performance indicators which are measures: and critical to the delivery of No more than 25% of the annual bonus will be based on performance our business strategy.
against non-financial measures, including for example, individual and strategic objectives.
The Committee ensures that targets are appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan and that there is an appropriate balance between incentivising Executive Directors to meet financial targets for the year and to deliver specific non-financial goals.
This balance allows the Committee to effectively reward performance against the key elements of our strategy.
The Company may amend the performance measures or targets in exceptional circumstances, where it considers that they are no longer appropriate.
There is no provision for recovery.
Long term incentives overview At the time of IPO, the Committee wished to put in place long term incentive arrangements which would provide for the continued alignment of Executive Directors with our shareholders.
"As such, the Committee approved three long term incentive plans: the Co-Investment Plan ""CIP"", the Performance Share Plan ""PSP"" and the Company Share Option Plan ""CSOP""."
CIP a one-off arrangement, tailored to our post-IPO position.
It requires Executive Directors to make a significant personal investment in order to be eligible to receive a Company match providing that stretching performance conditions are reached.
Awards were made on IPO and there is no intention to make any further awards to current Executive Directors under the Plan.
PSP intended to be our regular, ongoing long term incentive plan in future years.
Given that Executive Directors were made awards under the CIP in 2014, there is no intention for current Executive Directors to receive awards under the PSP until 2016.
CSOP for Executive Directors, this plan is used to allow the Company and participant to benefit from HMRC-approved option tax treatment in respect of the initial part of a PSP award currently up to 30,000.
As such, in line with the PSP above, it is not intended for current Executive Directors to receive awards under the CSOP until 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued In addition, the Committee intend to introduce a Sharesave plan during the term of this Policy, in which all colleagues will be eligible to participate including Executive Directors.
Although we do not intend to make any further awards under the CIP to current Executive Directors following IPO, we have provided details of the Plan in the Policy Table below for clarity.
No individual will be eligible to receive two awards under the CIP.
The Committee may consider granting a new Executive Director a CIP award if it considers it to be appropriate to promote alignment across the executive team.
"Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity 1 Long term elements Co-Investment Plan ""CIP"" To promote continued Matching Awards vest after three, four and five years, subject to Executive Directors invested 250% of base alignment between achievement of performance conditions."
salary in the CIP at IPO Invested Shares Executive Directors Additional shares or cash may be awarded in lieu of dividends Subject to performance, Invested Shares and shareholders in on any Matching Awards which vest, which would have been paid during may be eligible for up to a 1:1 Company the years following IPO.
match on this amount Matching Award.
The performance measures under the CIP are: Current Executive Directors will not 75% EPS growth to reflect the financial performance of our business receive any further and a direct and focused measure of Company success.
10% of the total Marching Award will vest for EPS growth of 10% per annum, rising to 75% of the total Matching Award will vest for EPS growth of 17.5% per annum.
25% Relative TSR against the UK General Retail Index a measure of the ultimate delivery of shareholder returns, promoting alignment between Executive Director remuneration and the shareholder experience.
6.25% of the total Marching Award will vest for median TSR performance against the Index, and 25% of the total Matching Award will vest for upper quartile TSR performance against the Index.
The Committee considers that the performance measures are fully aligned with our corporate strategy.
The plan rules also stipulate that the Committee may amend the performance measures or targets in exceptional circumstances, where it considers that they are no longer appropriate.
If this discretion was used, we would consult with our major shareholders and the rationale would be clearly explained in the Remuneration Report.
Unvested and unexercised awards are subject to malus in case of misconduct or misstatement.
Invested shares may also be forfeited in case of fraud, misconduct or negligence.
Under the terms of CIP, the treatment of leavers depends on the length of the period between grant and cessation with Invested Shares being forfeited in the event of Early Leavers.
See page 104 for further details.
"Pets at Home Group Plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity 1 Long term elements Performance Share Plan ""PSP"" To incentivise Awards vest after three years, subject to achievement of performance The maximum award opportunity under the delivery of our conditions."
the PSP is normally 150% of base salary business plan on or 200% of salary in circumstances which Additional shares or cash may be awarded in lieu of dividends the Committee considers to be exceptional.
on any shares which vest, which would have been paid during the vesting period.
To reward performance Share awards are normally made in the form of conditional share awards, against key performance but may be awarded in other forms if appropriate such as indicators which are nil cost options.
The plan rules specify that awards may also be satisfied in critical to the delivery of cash although this is unlikely to apply to Directors.
The ultimate goal of the Companys strategy is to provide long term The intention is that sustainable returns to shareholders.
The Committee strives to do current Executive this by aligning the performance measures under the PSP with the long term Directors will not strategy of the Company and considers that strong performance under the receive awards under chosen measures should result in sustainable value creation: the PSP until 2016.
Financial measure to reflect the financial performance of our business and a direct and focused measure of Company success.
The Committee sets targets to be appropriately stretching, with regard to a number of internal and external reference points.
Share price performance measure a measure of the ultimate delivery of shareholder returns.
This promotes alignment between Executive Director reward and the shareholder experience.
Targets are set with reference to wider market practice and positioned at a level which the Committee considers represent stretching performance.
The Committee sets targets each year, achievement of which it considers would represent stretching performance in the context of the business plan.
Normally the weighting would be split equally across these two measures, although the Committee may vary this as appropriate to reflect strategic priorities.
For threshold levels of performance, 25% of the maximum award vests, increasing to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
"The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Company Share Option Plan ""CSOP"" awards."
CSOP awards enable the participant and Company to benefit from HMRC approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
CSOP awards may be structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit currently 30,000 with an unapproved option for the balance and a linked award to fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and a PSP award, with the vesting of the PSP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the approved option.
1 SAYE An all-colleague plan, SAYE is a HMRC-approved scheme where eligible colleagues are granted The market value of the shares under option which encourages savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the at the date of maturity of the Sharesave long term shareholding Company.
It is intended that the plan will be implemented during 2014. savings contract, less the grant price of and to align the the option at the contract start date.
Options are granted to be exercisable in conjunction with either a three-year or interests of UK five-year savings contract with a monthly savings limit of 500. colleagues with Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% to market price shareholders.
at the time of invitation.
Executive Directors are There are no performance measures attached to awards under the SAYE.
1 The Committee may in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital demerger, delisting, or other event which may affect the value of awards, adjust or amend the terms of awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant share plan.
In the case of the SAYE, any changes may be subject to HMRC approval if required.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued b Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity Overall remuneration To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee in respect of their Current fee levels can be found on page 91. high calibre individuals Board duties.
Fees are set at a level which is considered by offering market Further fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of Deputy appropriate to attract and retain the calibre competitive fee Chairman of the Board and or chairmanship of Board committees.
of individual required by the Company.
The Non-Executive Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that the total aggregate The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is set by the remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Remuneration Committee, whilst the Board as a whole is responsible Chairman and the NEDs will be within the for determining Non-Executive Director fees.
These fees are the sole limits set by shareholders.
element of Non-Executive remuneration and they are not eligible for incentive awards, pensions or other benefits.
Fees are typically reviewed annually.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the benefits.
Legacy matters The Committee will honour remuneration related commitments to current and former Executive Directors including the exercise of any discretions available to the Committee in relation to such commitments where the terms were agreed prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming an Executive Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The Remuneration Policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Company.
All our reward arrangements are built around the common objectives and principles outlined below: Performance driven The Company intentionally places significant focus on variable remuneration, ensuring that a meaningful proportion of remuneration is based on performance.
Performance targets are typically aligned with those of the Executive Directors.
As a result, individuals are incentivised towards consistent financial and non-financial business goals and objectives, in addition to appropriate individual goals.
Colleagues as shareholders The Committee intends to put in place a Sharesave plan during the term of this Policy, to allow our wider colleague population to build up a shareholding in the Company.
In addition, under the terms of our IPO, colleagues were permitted to buy shares in our IPO and over 2,700 colleagues took up this opportunity.
Pets at Home Group Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report c Recruitment policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
Element Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a member of the Board from an external party is to take account of the Executive Directors remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package, and to not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the business, in addition to considering the matters detailed above for external candidates, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Fixed elements We recognise that salary levels drive other elements of the package and would therefore seek to pay a salary which is Base salary, benefits competitive, but no more than necessary to secure the individual.
and other benefits The Executive Director would be eligible to participate in our benefit and pension plans, including coverage under all Executive Director and colleague pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as may be amended by the Company from time to time.
The Company may meet certain mobility costs, including relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Short term incentives The individual will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan, in accordance with the rules and terms of the plan in operation at the time.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 100% of base salary.
Long term incentives The individual will be eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan and the associated Company Share Option Plan, in accordance with the rules and terms of the plan in operation at the time.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 200% of base salary.
Alternatively, whilst not currently envisaged at this time, the Committee may consider the individual eligible to participate in the Co-Investment Plan, which would operate under the same terms as for current participants.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. a maximum Matching Award of 250% of base salary, and would be pro-rated to reflect the length of the performance period which the individual was due to serve.
Buy-out awards The Committee will consider what buy-out awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards which would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of the awards forfeited.
Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing long term incentive plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of this plan if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards made in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to their original terms.
If promotion is part way through the year, an additional top-up award may be made to bring the Executive Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate in the circumstances.
d Service contracts and loss of office arrangements The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
On principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of a loss of office is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for the loss of office, Company and individual performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued The key employment terms and conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Area Policy Notice period The service contracts for Nick Wood and Ian Kellett provide for a notice period from both the Company and the individual of 12 months for Nick Wood, and six months for Ian Kellett.
New Executive Directors will be appointed on service contracts that have a notice period of not more than 12 months for both the Company and the individual.
The Committee considers this policy provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
"Contractual payments Executive Directors service contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice ""PILON"", at the Companys discretion."
Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for their full notice period.
Neither notice nor PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Payment in lieu of notice will be limited to base salary and contractual benefits for the relevant notice period.
There is no contractual entitlement to a payment under the annual bonus in respect of the notice period.
Service contracts allow for mitigation if the individual finds alternative employment.
Short term incentives The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Where an Executive Director leaves office after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual bonus for that performance year, subject to the normal assessment of performance achieved over the period.
Where an Executive Director leaves office during a performance year, any bonus would be at the Committees absolute discretion and would take into account performance and the time served during the period.
No bonus will be paid in the event of gross misconduct.
Long term incentives The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan.
CIP Treatment under the CIP is dependent on the period elapsed since the IPO.
a Within the first 24 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily resigns less than 18 months following the date of admission, they will forfeit their Invested Shares and their Matching Awards.
b Between 24 months and 36 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily resigns between 18 months and 30 months following the date of admission and completes at least two years service by working his notice period or being put on garden leave, or would have done so but is given PILON, they will retain their Invested Shares and may retain a portion of their Matching Award subject to achievement of performance targets measured over the first two years of the performance period.
c On or after 36 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily resigns on or after 30 months following the date of admission and completes at least three years service by working his notice period or being put on garden leave, or would have done so but is given PILON, they will retain their Invested Shares and, if a good leaver defined as under the PSP also their Matching Award, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any participant who is dismissed for reasons of fraud or negligence will forfeit their Invested Shares and Matching Awards in full.
PSP Under the PSP, the default position is for unvested awards to lapse upon a loss of office event.
Where an individual is determined to be a good leaver which includes for reasons of death, illness, injury, disability, retirement or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee the Committee may allow unvested awards to subsist until the relevant vesting date, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions and pro-rated for time served.
Alternatively, the Committee may, at its discretion, allow awards to vest at an earlier date, having regard to the achievement of performance conditions to that date and the period of time that has passed since the date of grant.
The Committee may choose to apply no reduction in the amount vesting if it is considered appropriate given the particular circumstances.
Change in control The Committees policy is that service contracts should not provide for additional compensation on severance as a result of a change in control.
Under the PSP, the Committee will determine whether and to what extent awards shall vest, taking into account all relevant factors including Company performance, the period of time elapsed since the date of grant and the interests of our shareholders.
Under the CIP, participants will be eligible to retain their full Invested Shares and all restrictions on them will be lifted.
The Committee will determine whether and to what extent Matching Awards shall vest, taking into account Company performance, and the period of time elapsed since the date of grant.
Pets at Home Group Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold an external appointment with the prior consent of the Board.
Any fees may be retained by the individual.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Period Initially appointed for a period of three years, subject to annual review and notice.
In line with the UK Code, all Directors will seek annual re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM.
Loss of office Three months notice by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board are not entitled to compensation on leaving the Board.
Expiry of current term See page 94 for details of the expiry of the current term of Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment.
Availability of documentation Service contracts and letters of appointment for all Directors are available for inspection by any person at our registered office in Handforth, Cheshire.
They will also be available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM to be held in Manchester on 9 September 2014. e Illustration of the Remuneration Policy Our remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short term and long term performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
Scenario Assumptions Fixed pay All performance Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
scenarios Base salary salary effective as at 17 March 2014.
Benefits amount estimated to be received by each Executive Director in 2014 15.
Pension salary supplement effective as at 17 March 2014.
Variable pay Minimum No payout under the annual bonus.
performance No vesting under the Performance Share Plan.
On-target 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus i. e. 50% of salary.
performance 16% vesting under the Performance Share Plan i. e. 24% of salary.
Maximum 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus i. e. 100% of salary.
performance 100% vesting under the Performance Share Plan i. e. 150% of salary.
Notes The Co-Investment Plan has not been included in the scenarios shown, as this plan is not intended to be an ongoing remuneration element under our Policy.
Under the PSP, the normal maximum limit of 150% of salary has been shown, rather than the exceptional limit of 200% of salary.
All-colleague share plans have been excluded.
Any legacy awards which Executive Directors hold have been excluded.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
Chief Executive Nick Wood Chief Financial Officer Ian Kellett 1,539 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 1,160 41% 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 41% 789 800 800 13% 597 28% 600 600 475 27% 13% 28% 360 27% 400 400 100% 60% 31% 200 200 100% 60% 31% 0 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum Expectation Expectation Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Base salary 425,000 320,000 Benefits 11,500 11,500 Pension 38,250 28,800 Total fixed pay 474,750 360,300 f Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company As per the Committees terms of reference, we also review the pay and conditions of colleagues at levels below the Executive Directors.
This includes approving the design of, and determining targets for any performance related pay schemes such as the bonus scheme operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes.
The Committee is also consulted concerning any major changes in colleague benefit structures throughout the Group.
The remuneration package for all colleagues including the Executive Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and a consistent approach is applied at all levels.
As part of the annual salary and benefits review, the Company takes into account industry standards, future legislative framework including the national minimum wage and the financial and economic environment of the Group both internally and externally.
The annual salary and benefits review is presented to the Committee with recommendations on remuneration throughout the colleague base, including a proposed salary increase to be applied to all colleagues wages, including the Executive Directors.
As such, the Committee has regard to this Group-wide annual review process when setting its Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Whilst our colleagues are not directly consulted as part of the process of determining pay, the output from colleague surveys, including our internal Were All Ears survey, is considered when carrying out the annual salary and benefits review.
A significant number of our colleagues are also shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
Pets at Home Group Plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report g Consideration of shareholder views Although we have only recently become a public listed company, the Committee recognises the importance of building a good relationship with our new shareholders.
This reflects our commitment to follow the highest standards of practice in relation to remuneration and governance at Pets at Home.
In reviewing the remuneration arrangements which were put in place at the time of our IPO, the Committee evaluated current best practice in the listed environment.
In particular, the Committee was keen to promote alignment, motivate our executive team and retain key talent to drive our business strategy.
Our aim was to adopt a remuneration framework which would drive achievement of our corporate goals, whilst providing shareholders with comfort that it was appropriate, justified and did not encourage unacceptable risk management behaviour.
We will continue to monitor shareholder views when evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and we commit to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to our Remuneration Policy.
h Minor amendments The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report 109 Consolidated income statement 113 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 113 Consolidated balance sheet 114 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 31 March 2016 115 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 26 March 2015 116 Consolidated statement of cash flows 117 Company balance sheet 118 Company statement of changes in equity as at 31 March 2016 119 Company statement of changes in equity as at 26 March 2015 119 Company income statement 119 Company statement of cash flows 120 Notes forming part of the financial statements 121 Advisors and contacts 172 Pets at Home Group Plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
