72 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Policy report The Remuneration Policy was approved Remuneration packages are designed The Committee believes that its by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, with to reward the Executive Directors and Remuneration Policy creates a coherent the expectation it would be applied for members of the senior management team and appropriate framework for remunerating a period of three years from that date.
fairly for their contributions, whilst remaining Executive Directors and other senior The Remuneration Policy is re-presented within the range of benefits offered by executives of the Company and draws here for completeness and transparency.
similar companies in the sector.
a clearer link between performance and Some minor amendments have been made reward.
The details of this policy are clearly to i references to particular years, ii page The Committee believes that the individual set out in the following pages.
and Note references, and iii the removal contributions made by Executive Directors of the Total Remuneration Opportunity and senior management are fundamental The Committee considers that the targets charts which were in relation to 2014 pay to the successful performance of the set for the different components of levels.
The full original report can be Company.
The Committee after discussion performance related remuneration are both viewed at http: playtech-ir.
with the Executive Directors and its appropriate and sufficiently demanding in investis.
com media Files P Playtech-IR advisers, New Bridge Street, has therefore the context of the business environment  2016 2015-reportadopted a remuneration policy with the and the challenges with which the Group and-accounts.
following objectives: is faced as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
As outlined in the Annual Statement, at Seek to pay executives competitively, the time of publication of this report the recognising that they have highly Committee was still in consultation with marketable skills to companies already shareholders on a proposed revised policy.
in and those considering entry to Therefore, in line with UK regulations, the online gambling industry, but shareholders will be asked to formally acknowledge local market levels, and reapprove the existing policy as set out where appropriate, practices: below, before being asked to approve Incentivise and reward behaviours that the revised policy at a General Meeting will contribute to superior Company immediately following the 2017 AGM.
performance: Once the terms of the new policy have Avoid the need to make ad-hoc been confirmed, full details of it will be set payments outside the formal structure: out in the notice of the General Meeting.
Enable the Company to attract and retain international executives at the The Remuneration Committee reviews required calibre, particularly in potential the Companys remuneration philosophy new markets: and structure each year to ensure that the Be simple and understandable: remuneration framework remains effective Provide good lock-in of key employees in supporting the Companys strategic through deferred elements: and objectives, is in line with best practice and Avoid reward for failure.
fairly rewards individuals for the contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the international nature, size and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to attract and motivate employees of the highest calibre.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The following table gives an overview of the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors: Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To attract, retain and Normally reviewed annually Other than when an N A motivate high calibre by the Committee, effective executive changes roles individuals for the role in June.
or where benchmarking andduties required.
indicates individual salaries Takes account of the require realignment, To provide market external market and other annual increases will competitive salary relative relevant factors including not exceed the general to the external market.
internal relativities and level of increases for the individual performance.
Groups employees, taking To reflect appropriate into account the country skills, development and wherethe executive experience over time.
Where benchmarking indicates that any individual salaries require realignment, these may be spread over a period of time if the required adjustment is particularlylarge.
Bonus Clear and direct Paid in cash.
Normally 150% of salary for Based on a mixture of incentive linked to annual the CEO but 200% in very financial performance performance targets.
exceptional circumstances including Adjusted as described below and EBITDA and performance Incentivise annual delivery 100% of salary for other against strategic objectives.
of financial measures and Executive Directors but personal performance.
150% in very exceptional No less than 70% of the circumstances.
The bonus will be dependent Corporate measures additional limit will only be on financial performance.
selected consistent with used in truly exceptional and complement the circumstances where Bonus is paid on a sliding budget and strategic plan.
performance significantly scale of 0% for threshold exceeds the targets increasing to 100% for already set for bonus and maximum performance.
reflects the unique and challenging environment in which the Company operates.
74 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration policy report continued Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Long Term Aligned to key strategic Grant of performance 150% and 100% of salary in Performance measured Incentive Plan objective of delivering shares, restricted shares performance shares for the over three years.
LTIP strong returns to or options.
shareholders and Performance targets earnings performance.
Awards may be subject aligned with the Groups to clawback in certain strategy of delivering circumstances.
strong returns to shareholders and earningsperformance.
25% of the awards vest for threshold performance.
Provision of cash 5% of salary.
Other benefits To help attract and retain Provision of private N A N A high calibre individuals.
medical, permanent health insurance, life insurance and rental and accommodation expenses on relocation.
Share ownership The Company has a policy Executive Directors are N A N A guidelines of encouraging Directors required to retain 50% tobuild a shareholding of the net of tax out-turn inthe Company.
from the vesting of awards under the LTIP until a shareholding with a minimum value has been achieved.
Non-executive To provide a competitive Fees are set in conjunction Other than when an N A Directors fee for the performance with the duties undertaken.
individual changes roles of NED duties, sufficient or where benchmarking to attract high calibre indicates fees require individuals to the role.
realignment, annual increases will not exceed the general level of increases for the Groups employees.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Normal policy will be for the new Director For the appointment of a new Chairman Explanation of chosen to participate in the remuneration structure or Non-executive Director, the fee performance measures detailed above, including the maximum arrangement would be set in accordance incentive levels of 350% and 250% of with the approved remuneration policy in and target setting salary for the Chief Executive Officer and force at that time.
Performance measures have been Chief Financial Officer respectively.
The selected to reflect the key performance Committee may decide that different Service contracts indicators which are critical to the performance criteria will apply to awards realisation of our business strategy made in the year of appointment from those and exit payments and delivery of shareholder returns.
stated in the policy above.
The Committee Executive Directors may also provide relocation expenses The service agreements of the Executive The performance targets are reviewed arrangements, legal fees and costs.
Directors are with PTVB Management each year to ensure that they are Limited, a wholly owned Isle of Man sufficiently challenging.
When setting The variable pay elements that may be incorporated subsidiary of the Company.
these targets the Committee will take into offered will be subject to the maximum The service agreement of the outgoing account a number of different reference limits stated in the policy table.
The Chief Financial Officer, Ron Hoffman, was points including, for financial targets, the Remuneration Committee may consider entered into on 5 December 2012 and Companys business plan and consensus it necessary and in the best interests of effective from 1 January 2013 and the analyst forecasts of the Companys the Company and its shareholders to service agreement of the Chief Executive performance.
Full vesting will only occur offer additional cash and or make a grant Officer was amended effective from for what the Remuneration Committee of shares including use of awards made 1 January 2013.
Both service agreements considers to be stretching performance.
2 of the Listing Rules are for an indefinite term and provide for in order to compensate the individual for formal notice of 12 months to be served remuneration that would be forfeited from Policy on recruitment or to terminate the agreement, either by the the current employer.
Where possible such Company or the Director.
Mr Hoffman promotion of Executive awards would be structured to mirror the stepped down as an Executive Director value, form and structure of the forfeited Directors and Chief Financial Officer in January awards or to provide alignment with 2017.
Andrew Smith was appointed as Base salary levels will be set to reflect the existing shareholders.
an Executive Director and Chief Financial experience of the individual, appropriate Officer on 10 January 2017.
His service market data and internal relativities.
The In the case of an internal promotion, any agreement is for an indefinite term and Remuneration Committee may feel it is commitments entered into prior to the provides for formal notice of six months appropriate to appoint a new Director promotion shall continue to apply.
Any to be served to terminate the agreement, on a below market salary with a view to variable pay elements shall be entitled either by the Company or the Director.
Set making above market and workforce to pay out according to its original terms out in the table below are the other key annual increases over a number of years to on grant.
terms of the Executive Directors terms reach the desired salary positioning subject and conditions of employment.
to individual and Company performance.
Provision Detail Remuneration Base salary and benefits.
Private health insurance for Director and dependents.
30 days paid annual leave in the case of the CFO and 30 days paid annual leave in the case of the CEO.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules.
Contribution equal to 5% of salary to personal pension plan.
Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control.
Notice period 12 months notice on either side for the CEO and six months notice for the CFO.
Termination payment The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary plus benefits for the period of notice served.
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months thereafter.
76 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration policy report continued A bonus is not ordinarily payable unless Non-executive Directors Consideration of the individual is employed and not under The Non-executive Directors each have notice on the payment date.
However, the employment conditions specific letters of appointment, rather than Remuneration Committee may exercise service contracts.
Their remuneration is elsewhere its discretion to award a bonus payment determined by the Board within limits set for the notice period served not on The Remuneration Committee when setting by the articles of association and is set garden leave.
the policy for Executive Directors takes into taking into account market data as obtained consideration the pay and employment from independent Non-executive Director The LTIP rules provide that other than conditions through the Company as a whole.
fee surveys and their responsibilities.
in certain good leaver circumstances Non-executive Directors are appointed awards lapse on cessation of employment.
In determining salary increases for for an initial term of three years and, under Where an individual is a good leaver the Executive Directors, the Committee normal circumstances would be expected Committees policy is for the award to vest considers the general level of salary to serve for additional three-year terms, on the normal vesting date or cessation increase across the Company.
Typically up to a maximum of nine years, subject of employment in the event of death salary increases will be aligned with those to satisfactory performance and re-election following the application of performance received elsewhere in the Company unless at the Annual General Meeting as required.
targets and a pro-rata reduction to take the Remuneration Committee considers account of the proportion of the vesting that specific circumstances require a On his appointment as Chairman of the period that has elapsed.
The Committee different level of salary increase for Board being announced, Alan Jackson has discretion to partly or completely Executive Directors.
entered into a new letter of appointment dis-apply pro-rating or to permit awards effective from 9 October 2013 when Roger to vest on cessation of employment.
The Company extends its annual Withers announced his decision to retire as The Committee acknowledges that bonus plan and share awards to senior Chairman of the Board in August 2013.
Executive Directors leave for a variety management and other key members of reasons that do not necessarily fall of the workforce as the Remuneration The table below is a summary of the key within the prescribed categories in the Committee feels that it is important to terms of the letters of appointment for the plan rules.
It therefore retains discretion incentivise and retain these employees Non-executive Directors.
to deem an individual to be a good leaver in order for the Company to continue in accordance with the plan rules and in itsdevelopment.
3.2 of the making that decision will take into account Code the letters of appointment of the the performance of the individual in office Non-executive Directors are available for Consideration of and their reason for leaving.
inspection at the Companys registered shareholder views office and will be available before and after the forthcoming AGM.
The Company is committed to engagement with shareholders and will seek major shareholders views in advance of making significant changes to its remuneration policies.
Name Date Term Termination Alan Jackson 29 August 2013 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side unless not re-elected.
or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct.
Andrew Thomas 19 June 2012 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side unless not re-elected.
Paul Hewitt 27 August 2015 Until third AGM after appointment 90 days notice on either side unless not re-elected.
John Jackson 1 January 2016 Until third AGM after appointment 90 days notice on either side unless not re-elected.
Claire Milne 8 July 2016 Until third AGM after appointment 90 days notice on either side unless not re-elected.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 In relation to the annual bonus plan, Legacy arrangements the Remuneration Committee retains discretion over: For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Remuneration Policy, authority is The participants: given to the Company to honour any commitments previously entered into with The timing of a payment: The determination of the amount current or former Directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders.
of a bonus payment: Determination of the treatment The policy described above includes of leavers: and The annual review of performance some flexibility to allow the Remuneration Committee discretion to increase the measures and weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year.
maximum bonus payment to an Executive Director: it was considered that given the In relation to both the Companys LTIP unique, fast-changing and challenging environment in which the Group operates, and annual bonus plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and the Committee needed some discretion if, acting fairly and reasonably it feels that the or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment pay-out is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer factors it considers relevant.
appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original Discretion vested in purpose and are not materially less difficult the Remuneration to satisfy.
Given the unique, fast-changing and challenging environment in which Committee the Group operates, the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee will operate Committee considers that it needs some the annual bonus and LTIP according discretion if, acting fairly and reasonably, to their respective rules or relevant it feels that the pay-out is inconsistent with documents and in accordance with the Companys overall performance taking the Listing Rules where relevant.
The account of any factors it considers relevant.
Committee retains discretion, consistent Any use of the above discretions would, with market practice, in a number of where relevant, be explained in the Annual regards to the operation and administration Report on Remuneration and may, as of these plans.
These include, but are appropriate, be the subject of consultation not limited to, the following in relation with the Companys major shareholders.
to the LTIP: The participants: The timing of grant of an award: The size of an award: The determination of vesting: Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
78 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration The sections of this report subject to audit have been highlighted.
Directors emoluments in Audited Mor Weizer Ron Hoffman Executive Director 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 Salary 703,801 761,425 493,443 480,656 2 Bonus 1,359,371 1,306,113 711,470 636,094 Long-term incentives 208,952 313,176 87,707 130,488 3 Benefits 26,077 29,663 28,200 30,099 Pension 48,130 39,043 30,624 24,033 Total emoluments 2,346,331 2,449,420 1,340,978 1,301,370 1 Basic salary of the Executive Directors is determined in Pounds Sterling and then converted into euros at the average exchange rate applicable during the relevant financial year for the purpose of this report.
As noted on page 80, the salary for Mor Weizer was increased from 550,000 to 600,000 with effect from 1 June 2016 and the salary for Ron Hoffman was increased from 375,000 to 425,000 with effect from 1 June 2016.
2 The figure for bonuses in 2016 above represents a payment as determined by the Remuneration Committee for the Executive Directors given the excellent performance during the period and by reference to their actual salary earned during the year to 31 December 2016.
The bonuses were determined in Pounds Sterling and then converted into euros at the exchange applicable as at 31 December 2016.
Details of a how the annual performance bonus for the Executive Directors was determined: and b the timing of bonus payments, is set out below.
3 Benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, car and life assurance.
2 Claire Milne was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 8 July 2016.
3 Alan Jackson was provided with a company car during the year Determination of 2016 bonus In accordance with the Companys Remuneration Policy, the CEO and CFO had the opportunity to earn a normal bonus in respect of2016 of 150% and 100% of salary respectively and a further 50% of salary each in exceptional circumstances.
The 2016 performance wasassessed against a mixture of financial and non-financial targets.
The financial targets representing 70% of bonus opportunity were based on the achievement of Adjusted EBITDA of 287 million payable on a scale of 90%-105% around this target, with 0% of bonus payable below 90% of target and 100% of bonus payable for on or over 105% of target.
Adjusted EBITDA was selected as an appropriate measure as it is the key financial performance metric of the Company, most closely representing the underlying trading performance of the business and is calculated after adding back certain non-cash charges, cash expenses relating to professional costs on acquisitions, gains on sale of investments and certain one-off charges as set out in the financial statements on page 121.
The non-financial performance targets were selected to underpin key strategic objectives of the Group, in particular recognising the challenges of expanding the business into regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets and strengthening the Groups regulatory functions in light of increased regulation in the UK and elsewhere.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 When reviewing the performance during 2016 the Committee noted that the Adjusted EBITDA for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 was 302.2 million consolidated with 286.6 million for the Gaming division and the balance for the Financials division, representing a 20% increase on the prior year.
This was achieved at the same time as significant improvements in other key financial indicators including growth in revenue 12%.
Adjusted Net Profit remained flat and adjusted EPS decreased by 3% due to the placing in November 2016.
The operational highlights set out in the Strategic Report on page 5 demonstrate that a number of the key strategic objectives set for executives have already been successfully implemented, particularly as regards securing business in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets.
The Committee also took account of the exceptional work and effort undertaken as part of the continuing integration of Markets Limited and the acquisitions of Quickspin, BGT and CFH.
The Committee considered that performance in 2016 was excellent as it far surpassed expectations and the targets set at the start of the financial year and was achieved in the wake of Brexit and volatile currency markets.
The Committee felt it was fair and reasonable to recognise this exceptional Group and individual performance of the Executive Directors.
The Committee therefore approved the use of the facility within the approved policy whereby up to an additional 50% of salary can be payable to Executive Directors in exceptional circumstances where performance significantly exceeds the targets set.
On this basis the Committee approved additional bonuses of 50% of salary for the CEO and CFO.
Accordingly, the Committee determined that the bonus payable for 2016 was 1,359,371 for the CEO 200% of salary and a bonus of 711,470 for the CFO 150% of salary.
The bonus payments were awarded based on the actual salary earned in the calendar year 2016.
The Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus payments to Executive Directors are a fair reflection of corporate and individual performance during the year and that overall remuneration is not excessive given the size and complexity of the Groups business and the industry in which it operates.
LTIP awards Audited On 21 December 2016, the following awards were made to Executive Directors under the LTIP: % of award Aggregate vesting for Total number market value threshold Performance Type of award of awards performance period 1 Mor Weizer Nil-cost option 110,038 1,019,528 25% 1.1.
16 31.12.18 1 Awards represent 150% and 100% of salary respectively based on a share price on grant of 789.5 pence.
When considering these awards, the Committee took into account the long delay in making the awards due to the Company being in an almost constant close period during 2015 and 2016.
Therefore, it was decided that the vesting period would commence from 1 March 2016.
In the normal course of events these awards will vest on the third anniversary of the start of the vesting period, 1 March 2019, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Awards granted in 2016 are subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions: 70% of the award is subject to a performance condition that the Companys simple annual EPS growth must match a threshold determined by the Committee for 25% of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for achieving a maximum performance level.
EPS will be measured over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is granted.
The remaining 30% of the award is subject to a performance condition comparing the Companys total shareholder return TSR against the FTSE 250 on a ranked basis.
The TSR tranche shall vest 25% for median performance increasing straight line to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
80 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration continued The EPS tranche shall vest over a number of shares determined as follows: Companys simple annual EPS growth % of EPS tranche that vests 15% or more per annum 100% Between 6% and 15% per annum On a straight line basis between 25% and 100% 6% per annum 25% Less than 6% per annum 0% When setting the EPS performance range the Committee considered both internal financial targets and external market consensus.
The target range is considered to be challenging given the current view of the business and wider macroeconomic factors, but is achievable without incentivising any undue risk behaviour.
Termination payments Audited No termination payments to Directors were made in 2016.
Payments to past Directors Audited There were no payments made to past Directors in 2016.
Implementation of Policy for 2017 Salary pay review The Remuneration Committee takes into account individual performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, the relative performance of the Company, pay policy within the Company including the general pay and employment terms of all employees in the Group and salaries in comparable companies.
Mr Weizers salary was set at 600,000 with effect from 1 June 2016.
Mr Hoffman stepped down as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017.
Mr Smith was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017.
His salary was set at 325,000 with effect from appointment.
The Committee considers that the salaries of both the Executive Directors remain below the mid-market position.
In view of this, the Committee intends to re-evaluate the salaries for both Executive Directors as part of the annual review in 2017, which is expected to commence in June.
The current basic salary levels of the Executive Directors are: M. Weizer: 600,000 equivalent to 731,970 at the average exchange rate between Sterling and Euro used in the accounts which was effective from 1 June 2016: and A. Smith 325,000 equivalent to 396,484 at the average exchange rate between Sterling and Euro used in the accounts which was effective from 10 January 2017.
Fees currently payable to Non-executive Directors are: Chairman: 384,000 equivalent to 468,461 at the average exchange rate between Sterling and Euro used in the accounts : and Non-executive Director base fee: 100,000 equivalent to 121,995 at the average exchange rate between Sterling and Euro used in the accounts.
The Non-executive Director fees recognise core responsibilities and additional duties as Chair of a Board Committee.
Benefits and pension Benefit and pension provision will continue to be set in line with the approved policy.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Annual bonus For 2017, bonuses for the Executive Directors will be based on the following: Performance target Weighting Adjusted EBITDA Commercially confidential 70% Non-financial and strategic objectives Commercially confidential 30% When setting the Adjusted EBITDA target, the Committee was mindful of a number of factors and believes that the targets set are very challenging.
The level of bonus payable by reference to the financial performance of the Company will be determined on a sliding scale based on the Companys budget for the forthcoming financial year.
The annual bonus will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in relation to material misstatement, gross misconduct, material error in calculation and for a serious reputational event.
These provisions will apply for a period of three years after payment.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to Executive Directors will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to i participants remaining in employment other than in certain good leaver circumstances and ii achievement of challenging performance targets.
Awards granted in 2017 will continue to be subject to a combination of EPS growth 70% of awards and relative TSR 30% of awards.
Threshold performance will result in 25% of each element vesting.
As with the awards granted in 2016, the relative TSR measure will be measured against the FTSE 250 on a ranked basis over three financial years and require at least median performance for 25% of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
EPS will be measured over three financial years.
At the time of preparing this report EPS targets for 2017 have not been determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The EPS targets will be stretching and demanding and will be set out in Stock Exchange announcements when made.
LTIP awards granted from 2017 will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in relation to material misstatement, gross misconduct, material error in calculation and for a serious reputational event.
These provisions will apply for a period of three years post vesting.
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market purchase shares or may be cashed-out, subject to the tax treatment in the hands of the recipient.
Dilution limits All of the Companys equity based incentive plans other than the Option Plan which was established before the Companys admission to AIM in 2006 incorporate the current Investment Association Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital or reissue of treasury shares, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period for executive plans.
The Committee monitors the position and prior to the making of any award considers the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 December 2016.
82 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration continued Review of performance The following graph shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the past five years: the Companys TSR is compared with a broad equity market index.
The index chosen here is the FTSE 250, which is considered the most appropriate published index.
1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Jan-12 Jul-12 Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Playtech FTSE 250 The Remuneration Committee believes that the current Remuneration Policy and the supporting reward structure provide a clear alignment with the strategic objectives and performance of the Company.
To maintain this relationship, the Remuneration Committee constantly reviews the business priorities and the environment in which the Company operates.
The table below shows the total remuneration of MorWeizer over the last five years and his achieved annual variable and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan maxima.
Year ending 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 000 808 800 1,381 1,740 2,449 2,346 1 Annual bonus % 34% 150% 150% 200% 175% 200% 2 LTIP vesting % 1 For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, Mor Weizer decided in light of his overall aggregate remuneration, to waive approximately three-quarters of his earned bonus for that year.
2 As awards previously granted were share options without performance conditions, under the Regulations they are not required to be shown in this table.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer In the financial year ended 31 December 2016, Mr Weizers salary was increased by 9% effective 1 June 2016 and was awarded an exceptional bonus of 200% of salary compared with 175% of salary in the year ended 31 December 2015.
On a value basis the increase was 4% which reflects the 9% increase in salary and also in part reflected movements in exchange rates.
The average percentage changes for all UK-based full-time employees were a 3% decrease and a 35% decrease in salary and benefits respectively mainly due to significant fluctuations in exchange rates in the period, and 2% increase in bonus payments.
The UK workforce was chosen as a comparator group as the Remuneration Committee looks to benchmark the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer with reference mainly to the UK market albeit that he has a global role and responsibilities, and remuneration packages across the Group vary widely depending on local market practices and conditions.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, dividends, and total remuneration paid to all employees as follows: 2016 2015 Change Pay-outs m m m % 1 Dividends 102.8 91.0 13% Share buy backs 49.9 N A 2 Total employee remuneration 241.4 224.6 7% 1 The total dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 is calculated on the basis that the shareholders approve the proposed final dividends of 21.7 cents per share.
2 Total employee remuneration for continuing and discontinued operations, includes wages and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all employees, including the Directors.
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors and part-time employees in continuing and discontinued operations was 5,254 during the financial year to 31 December 2016.
Directors interests in ordinary shares Audited Total interests at Ordinary shares Share options 31 December Director 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 1, 2, 3 Executive Directors Mor Weizer 36,000 36,000 213,116 103,078 249,116 Ron Hoffman resigned 10 January 2017 10,000 10,000 94,404 43,211 104,404 Andrew Smith appointed 10 January 2017 22,501 13,084 22,501 Non-executive Directors Alan Jackson 15,000 15,000 15,000 Andrew Thomas 7,500 7,500 7,500 Paul Hewitt 2,524 2,524 John Jackson Claire Milne 1 Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman currently hold shares to the value of 50% and 19% of salary based on salaries as of 31 December 2016 respectively and based on the closing share price on 31 December 2016.
The Committee will continue to monitor progress towards the share ownership guidelines of 100% of salary.
2 Share options are granted for Nil consideration.
3 These options were granted in accordance with the Rules of the Playtech Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 the Option Plan.
Options under the Option Plan are granted as Nil cost options and in the case of Executive Directors exclusively, the options vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the notional grant date.
Unexercised options expire ten years after the date of grant, unless the relevant employee leaves the Groups employment, in which case the unvested options lapse andany vested options lapse three months after the date that the employment ends.
None of the Non-executive Directors have any options over shares in the Company.
84 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual report on remuneration continued Role and membership The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised entirely of five independent Non-executive Directors as defined in the Code.
John Jackson was appointed as Chair on 1 February 2016.
The other members are Andrew Thomas, Alan Jackson, Paul Hewitt and Claire Milne.
Details of attendance at the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 62 and their biographies and experience on pages 56 to 57.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference detailing its authority and responsibilities.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated during 2016 and are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
com and include: Determining and agreeing the policy for the remuneration of the CEO, CFO, the Chairman and other members of the senior management team: Review of the broad policy framework for remuneration to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant: Review of the design of and determine targets for any performance-related pay and the annual level of payments under such plans: Review of the design of and approve any changes to long-term incentive or option plans: and Ensuring that contractual terms on termination and payments made are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded.
The Remuneration Committee also considers the terms and conditions of employment and overall remuneration of Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and members of the senior management team and has regard to the Companys overall approach to the remuneration of all employees.
Within this context the Committee determines the overall level of salaries, incentive payments and performance related pay due to Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee also determines the performance targets and the extent of their achievement for both annual and long-term incentive awards operated by the Company and affecting the senior management.
No Director is involved in any decisions as to his her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee takes advice from both inside and outside the Group on a range of matters, including the scale and composition of the total remuneration package payable to people with similar responsibilities, skills and experience in comparable companies that have extensive operations inside and outside the UK.
During the year the Remuneration Committee received material assistance and advice from the Company Secretary who is also secretary to the Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 The Remuneration Committee has a planned schedule of at least four meetings throughout the year, with additional meetings and calls held when necessary.
During 2016, the Committee met in person eight times and these meetings, together with a number of conference calls, addressed a wide variety of issues, including: Month Principal activity January Review of bonus and other incentivisation arrangements in relation to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
February Set financial targets for 2016 bonuses.
March Review of Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors.
June Review of LTIP criteria.
August Review of senior management salaries.
October Review of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
November Review of senior management incentives.
December Approval of grant of Nil cost options for a limited number of Group personnel.
External advisers New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited is the Committees independent adviser.
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
New Bridge Street does not provide any other services to the Company.
New Bridge Street was paid 94,534 in relation to advice provided during 2016.
Engagement with shareholders and shareholder voting The Remuneration Committee is committed to ensuring open dialogue with shareholders in relation to remuneration and would normally consult with major shareholders regarding any significant future changes to remuneration policy.
The voting outcome at the AGM held on 18 May 2016 in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 was as follows: For Against Withheld Approval of Remuneration Report 196,846,079 40,076,752 3,774,607 83.08% 16.92% At 17 May 2016, the issued share capital of the Company was 322,624,603 ordinary shares of no par value.
By order of the Board John Jackson Chair of the Remuneration Committee 22 February 2017
