04 Directors remuneration report New Directors remuneration policy This policy will apply following the AGM on 18 May 2017 subject to shareholder approval.
Total remuneration for our Executive Directors is made up of a number of elements.
Fixed pay policy for Executive Directors Component and purpose Operation Opportunity Base salary Prudentials policy is to offer all Executive Directors base salaries that are Annual salary Paying salaries at a competitive competitive within their local market.
increases for level enables the Company to Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee reviews salaries annually with changes recruit and retain key will normally be in line normally effective from 1 January.
In determining base salary for each executives.
with the increases for executive, the Committee considers factors such as: other employees Salary increases for other employees across the Group: unless there is a change in role or The performance and experience of the executive: responsibility.
The size and scope of the role: Group and or business unit financial performance: Internal relativities: and External factors such as economic conditions and market data.
As the Company has Executive Directors based in multiple geographies, and within insurance and asset management businesses, the Remuneration Committee reviews data from a number of different markets it believes to be the most relevant benchmarks.
While salaries are typically paid in the local currency of the country where the executive is based, the Committee may determine that the salary of an executive is set or paid in an alternative currency.
Benefits Prudentials policy is for the Committee to have the discretion to offer The maximum paid Provided to executives to assist Executive Directors benefits which reflect their individual circumstances will be the cost to the them in carrying out their and are competitive within their local market, including: Company of providing duties efficiently.
The Health and wellness benefits: cost of these benefits Expatriate and relocation Protection and security benefits: may vary from year to benefits allow Prudential to year but the attract high-calibre executives Transport benefits: Committee is mindful in the international talent Family and education benefits: of achieving the best market and to deploy them value from providers.
All employee share plans and savings plans: Relocation and expatriate benefits: and Reimbursed business expenses including any tax liability incurred when travelling overseas in performance of duties.
Provision for an income in Prudentials policy is to offer all Executive Directors a pension provision Executive Directors retirement that is competitive and appropriate in the context of pension benefits for are entitled to receive Pension benefits provide senior executives in the relevant local market.
pension contributions executives with opportunities or a cash supplement The pension provision for Executive Directors will normally be reflective to save for an income in or combination of the of the arrangements in place for other employees in their business unit retirement.
two of up to 25 per when they joined the Group.
Executives have the option to: Contributions into the Receive payments into a defined contribution scheme: and or PCA Mandatory Provident Fund are in Take a cash supplement in lieu of contributions.
line with statutory In addition, the Chief Executive, PCA receives statutory contributions limits.
into the PCA Mandatory Provident Fund.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 135 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Annual bonus policy for Executive Directors Annual bonus Payments under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP incentivise the delivery of stretching financial, functional and or personal objectives which are drawn from the annual business plan.
Operation Currently all Executive Directors participate in the AIP.
The AIP payments for all Executive Directors are subject to the achievement of either financial and personal objectives or functional and personal objectives.
Business unit chief executives either have measures of their business units financial performance in the AIP or they may participate in a business unit specific bonus plan.
For example, the Chairman and CEO, NABU currently participates in the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool, as well as in the AIP.
Form and timing of payment All Executive Directors are required to defer a percentage of their total annual bonus into Prudential shares.
Currently all Executive Directors defer 40 per cent of their bonus for three years, with the remaining 60 per cent of their bonus paid in cash following the end of the performance year.
The release of deferred bonus awards is not subject to any further performance conditions.
Deferred bonus awards carry the right to receive an amount in shares or cash to reflect the dividends paid on the released shares, during the deferral period.
The Committee has the authority to apply clawback and or a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, the cash and deferred award elements of the bonus.
More details about clawback and malus are set out below.
See the Policy on corporate transactions section for details of the Committees powers in the case of corporate transactions.
Determining annual bonus In assessing financial performance, the Committee determines the annual incentive payment for payments each Executive Director with reference to the performance achieved against performance ranges.
The Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool is calculated based on Jacksons performance and distributed to Jacksons leadership team.
In assessing performance, the Committee will take into account the personal performance of the Executive Director and the Group and or business units adherence to the Groups risk framework and appetite, as well as other relevant factors.
To assist them in their assessment the Committee considers a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer on adherence to the Groups risk framework and appetite and to all relevant conduct standards.
The Committee may adjust the formulaic outcome based on the performance targets to reflect the underlying performance of the Company.
Opportunity The Chief Executive, M&G has a bonus opportunity which is the lower of 0.75 per cent of M&Gs IFRS profit or six times salary.
For other Executive Directors the maximum AIP opportunity is up to 200 per cent of salary.
Annual awards are disclosed in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
In addition to the AIP, the Chairman & CEO, NABU receives a 10 per cent share of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
136 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Annual bonus policy for Executive Directors continued Performance measures The Committee has the discretion to determine the specific performance conditions attached to each AIP cycle and to set annual targets for these measures with reference to the business plans approved by the Board.
The financial measures used for the AIP will typically include profit and cash flow targets and payments depend on the achievement of minimum capital thresholds.
For the measures used in 2016 and 2017, please refer to the Annual report on remuneration.
No bonus is payable under the AIP for performance at or below the threshold level, increasing to 100 per cent for achieving or exceeding the maximum level.
Jacksons profitability and other key financial and risk management measures determine the value of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool.
The weightings of the performance measures for 2017 for all Executive Directors, other than the Group Chief Risk Officer, are 80 per cent financial measures and 20 per cent personal measures.
The Chairman and CEO, NABU also participates in the Jackson Senior Management Bonus pool.
For the Group Chief Risk Officer, the performance measures for 2017 are entirely based on a combination of functional and personal measures.
The Group Chief Risk Officer is responsible for ensuring that the Companys risk exposures are within the Board approved risk framework and appetite, and to provide overall leadership to the Risk function.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust and or set different performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a change in the share capital of the Company or a change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
Amendments The Committee may make amendments to the rules of the deferred bonus plan which it considers appropriate such as amendments which benefit the administration of the plan but it will not make any amendments which are incompatible with the approved Directors remuneration policy.
Long-term incentive policy for Executive Directors Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan PLTIP The Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan is designed to incentivise the delivery of: Longer-term business plans: Sustainable long-term returns for shareholders: and Group strategic priorities, such as disciplined risk and capital management.
Following the end of the performance period, a two-year holding period applies, further aligning the experience of executives and shareholders.
Operation Currently all Executive Directors participate in the PLTIP.
Prudentials policy is that Executive Directors may receive long-term incentive awards with full vesting only achieved if the Company meets stretching performance targets.
The rules of the PLTIP were approved by shareholders in 2013.
Subsequent to this, minor amendments have been made to the rules to incorporate clawback provisions and to provide for a two-year holding period to awards.
Granting awards The PLTIP is a conditional share plan: the shares which are awarded will ordinarily vest after three years to the extent that performance conditions have been met.
If performance conditions are not achieved, the unvested portion of any award lapses and performance cannot be retested.
The PLTIP has a three-year performance period although the Committee has the discretion to apply shorter or longer performance periods when the PLTIP is used for buy-out awards on recruitment see the Approach to recruitment remuneration section.
Holding period After the end of the three-year performance period, the shares are usually subject to an additional two-year holding period except for buy out awards made under the PLTIP or in the case of the death of an executive.
The Company may sell such number of shares as is required to satisfy any tax liability that arises on vesting.
The balance of shares will be subject to the two-year holding period.
Determining the release of The Committee has the authority to apply clawback and or a malus adjustment to all, or a portion the award of, a PLTIP award.
Awards carry the right to receive an amount in shares or cash to reflect the dividends paid on the released shares, during the period between the awards being granted and the award vesting.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 137 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Long-term incentive policy for Executive Directors continued Opportunity The value of shares awarded under the PLTIP in any given financial year may not exceed 550 per cent of the executives annual basic salary.
Awards made in a particular year are usually significantly below this limit.
The levels of award made under the PLTIP in 2017 as a percentage of base salary are: Group Chief Executive 400% Chairman & CEO, NABU 460% Chief Executive, M&G 450% All other Executive Directors 250% The Committee does not envisage increasing the current award levels over the life of the policy and would consult with major shareholders before doing so.
In addition, these current award levels would be disclosed in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
The maximum vesting under the PLTIP is 100 per cent of the original share award plus accrued dividend shares.
Performance measures The performance conditions attached to PLTIP 2017 awards are: All Executive Directors except the Group Chief Risk Officer: Relative TSR 25 per cent of award : IFRS profit 50 per cent of award, Group or business unit as appropriate : and Balanced scorecard of sustainability measures 25 per cent of award.
Group Chief Risk Officer: Relative TSR 50 per cent of award : Group IFRS profit 20 per cent of award : and Balanced scorecard of sustainability measures 30 per cent of award.
The Committee may decide to attach different performance conditions and or change the conditions weighting for future PLTIP awards.
The performance conditions attached to each award are dependent on the role of the executive and will be disclosed in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
Relative TSR is measured over three years.
25 per cent of this portion of each award will vest for achieving the threshold level of median, increasing to full vesting for meeting the stretch level of upper quartile.
TSR is measured against a peer group of international insurers similar to Prudential in size, geographic footprint and products.
This peer group was reviewed during 2016 to ensure the group remains a relevant comparator group.
The peer group for each award is disclosed in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
Three-year cumulative IFRS operating profit is assessed at Group or business unit level.
Threshold and maximum achievement levels will be set at the beginning of the performance periods in line with the three-year business plan.
25 per cent of this portion of the award will vest for achieving threshold performance increasing to full vesting for meeting stretch targets.
The target for Group IFRS operating profit will be disclosed when the performance period ends.
Performance against the measures in the scorecard of sustainability measures is assessed at the end of the three-year performance period.
The four measures have an equal weighting.
100 per cent of each measure in this portion of the award will vest for full achievement of that measure and no portion will vest if the measure is not achieved in full.
The scorecard measures for each award are disclosed in the relevant Annual report on remuneration for the year of grant.
The Committee also considers a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer on whether the results were achieved within the Groups and business units risk framework and appetite.
The Group Chief Risk Officer also considers the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls, and specific actions taken to mitigate risks, particularly where these may be at the expense of profits or sales.
138 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Long-term incentive policy for Executive Directors continued Committee discretions For any award made under the PLTIP to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the quality of the Companys underlying financial performance justifies the level of reward delivered at the end of the performance period.
The Committee receives data about factors such as risk management and the cost of capital to support their decision.
The Committee has the discretion to alter or disapply the holding period if it believes that it is appropriate.
For awards made in 2016 The Committee has the discretion to amend the performance conditions attached to an award if and previous years circumstances relevant to the performance conditions have changed, and the Committee is satisfied that the amended measure will be a fairer measure of performance and no more or less demanding than the original condition.
The Committee would seek to consult with major shareholders before revising performance conditions on outstanding awards under the PLTIP.
For awards made in 2017 The Committee retains the ability to amend the performance conditions attached to an award and and subsequent years or set different performance measures or to revise the weighting of measures which apply to new or outstanding long-term incentive awards if events occur which cause the Committee to determine that circumstances relevant to the performance conditions have changed such that the measures described in this section are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose, provided the Committee is satisfied that the amended measure will be a fairer measure of performance and no more or less demanding than the original condition.
Examples of such events could include a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, or a change in the share capital of the Company or a change in prevailing market conditions or to meet the requirements of the Companys regulators.
Amendments The Committee may make amendments to the rules of the Plan which are minor and benefit the administration of the Plan, which take account of any changes in legislation, and or which obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
Otherwise no amendments may be made to certain key provisions of the PLTIP to the advantage of participants without prior shareholder approval.
Share ownership guidelines for Executive Directors Operation The share ownership guidelines for the Executive Directors are: 400 per cent of salary for the Group Chief Executive: and 250 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors.
Executives have five years from the later of the date of their appointment or promotion, or the date of an increase in these guidelines, to build this level of ownership.
Shares earned and deferred under the Annual Incentive Plan are included in calculating the Executive Directors shareholding for these purposes.
Unvested share awards under long-term incentive plans are not included but vested share awards under long-term incentive plans which are subject to the two-year holding period are included.
Progress against the share ownership guidelines is detailed in the Statement of Directors shareholdings section of the Annual report on remuneration.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 139 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Malus and clawback policy As detailed in the policy table, the Committee may apply clawback and or a malus adjustment to variable pay in certain circumstances as set out below.
The Committee can delay the release of awards pending the completion of an investigation which could lead to the application of malus or clawback.
Circumstances when the Committee may exercise its discretion to apply malus or clawback to an award Malus applies in respect of Where a business decision taken during the performance period by the business unit by which the any annual bonus or long-term participant was employed has resulted in a material breach of any law, regulation, code of practice incentive award or other instrument that applies to companies or individuals within the business unit.
Allows unvested shares There is a materially adverse restatement of the accounts for any year during the performance awarded under deferred bonus period of i the business unit in which the participant worked at any time in that year: and or ii and LTIP plans to be forfeited any member of the Group which is attributable to incorrect information about the affairs of that or reduced in certain business unit.
Any matter arises which the Committee believes affects or may affect the reputation of the Company or any member of the Group.
Clawback Where at any time before the fifth anniversary of the start of the performance period, either i there is a materially adverse restatement of the Companys published accounts in respect of any Allows cash and share awards financial year which in whole or part comprised part of the performance period: or ii it becomes to be recovered before or after apparent that a material breach of a law or regulation took place during the performance period release in certain which resulted in significant harm to the Company or its reputation, and the Committee considers circumstances.
it appropriate, taking account of the extent of the participants responsibility for the relevant restatement or breach, that clawback be applied to the relevant participant.
140 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Notes to the remuneration policy table for Executive Directors Committees judgement The Committee is required to make judgements when assessing Company and individual performance under the Directors remuneration policy.
In addition, the Committee has discretions under the Companys share plans, for example, determining if a leaver should retain or lose their unvested awards and whether to apply malus or clawback to an award.
Exercise of such discretion during the year will be reported and explained in the next Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee may approve payments in excess of, in a different form to, or calculated or delivered other than as described above, where the Committee considers such changes necessary to meet regulatory requirements.
If these changes are considered by the Committee to be material, the Company will seek to consult with its major shareholders.
Determining the performance measures The Committee selected the performance measures that currently apply to variable pay plans on the following basis: AIP The performance measures are selected to incentivise the delivery of the Groups business plan, specifically to ensure that financial objectives are delivered while maintaining adequate levels of capital.
Executives are also rewarded for the achievement of functional and or personal objectives.
These objectives include the executives contribution to Group strategy as a member of the Board, specific goals related to their functional and or business unit role and achievement of the Groups strategic priorities.
PLTIP Awards made under the PLTIP are currently subject to the achievement of IFRS profit targets, relative TSR and, from 2017, a balanced scorecard of measures: IFRS profit was selected as a performance measure for the PLTIP as well as the AIP because it is central to the management of the business and a key driver of shareholder value: Relative TSR was selected as a performance measure because it focuses on the value delivered to shareholders aligning the long-term interests of shareholders with those of executives: and From 2017, a balanced scorecard of measures was selected to ensure an alignment with the Groups strategic objectives, which are approved by the Board each year, and reflect Prudentials cultural values.
Setting the performance ranges for financial targets Where variable pay has performance conditions based on business plan measures for example the financial metrics of the AIP and the IFRS profit element of the PLTIP the performance ranges are set by the Remuneration Committee prior to, or at the beginning of, the performance period.
Performance is based on annual and longer-term plans approved by the Board.
These reflect the long-term ambitions of the Group and business units, in the context of anticipated market conditions.
For market-based performance conditions eg relative TSR the Committee requires that performance is in the upper quartile, relative to Prudentials peer group, for awards to vest in full.
Key differences between Directors remuneration and the remuneration of other employees Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance.
Each business units salary increase budget is set with reference to local market conditions.
The Remuneration Committee considers salary increase budgets in each business unit when determining the salaries of Executive Directors.
The principles that apply to Executive Directors are cascaded to other employees in their business unit.
Senior leaders in the Group participate in annual bonus schemes which have performance conditions that mirror the CEO for their business unit.
In addition, they are eligible to receive awards under the long-term incentive plans with performance conditions appropriate for their role.
Legacy payments The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 15 May 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before this policy came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming or having been a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
References to shares In this report, references to shares include American Depository Receipts ADRs.
Directors may receive awards denominated in ADRs rather than shares, depending on their location.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 141 Maximum In line with expectations Minimum Maximum In line with expectations Minimum Maximum In line with expectations Minimum Maximum In line with expectations Minimum Maximum In line with expectations Minimum Maximum In line with expectations Minimum Maximum In line with expectations Minimum New Directors remuneration policy Continued Scenarios of total remuneration The chart below provides an illustration of the future total remuneration for each Executive Director in respect of their remuneration opportunity for 2017.
Three scenarios of potential outcome are provided based on underlying assumptions shown in the notes to the chart.
The Committee is satisfied that the maximum potential remuneration of the Executive Directors is appropriate.
Prudentials policy is to offer Executive Directors remuneration which reflects the performance and experience of the executive, internal relativities and Group and or business unit financial performance.
In order for the maximum total remuneration to be payable: Financial performance must exceed the Group and or business units stretching business plan: Relative TSR must be at or above the upper quartile relative to the peer group: The sustainability scorecard, aligned to the Groups strategic priorities, must be fully satisfied: Functional and personal performance objectives must be fully met: and Performance must be achieved within the Groups and business units risk framework and appetite.
Estimated value of benefits based on amounts paid in 2016.
Tony Wilkey and Barry Stowe are paid in HK$ and US$ respectively and figures have been converted to GBP for the purposes of this chart.
Annual bonus No bonus paid.
Jackson bonus pool at the Jackson bonus pool at average of the last three years.
highest of the last three years.
Long-term incentives No PLTIP vesting.
59.38% or 58.75% for the Group 100% of award under PLTIP.
excludes share price Chief Risk Officer of award growth and dividends under PLTIP midway between threshold and maximum.
142 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Approach to recruitment remuneration The table below outlines the approach that Prudential will take when recruiting a new Executive Director.
This approach will also apply to internal promotions.
The approach to recruiting a Non-executive Director or a Chairman is outlined on page 148.
Element Principles Potential variations Base pay The salary for a new Executive Director will be set using the approach set out in the fixed pay policy table on page 135.
Benefits and pension The benefits for a new Executive Director will be consistent with those outlined in the fixed pay policy table.
Variable remuneration The variable remuneration opportunities for a opportunity new Executive Director would be consistent with the limits and structures outlined in the variable pay policy table.
Awards and contractual On joining the Board from within the Group, the The Committee may consider compensating a rights forfeited when Committee may allow an executive to retain any newly-appointed executive for other relevant leaving previous outstanding deferred bonus and or long-term contractual rights forfeited when leaving their employer incentive awards and or other contractual previous employer.
arrangements that they held on their The use of Listing Rule 9.4.
These awards which may have recruitment of an Executive Director is now only been made under plans not listed in this policy relevant in unusual circumstances.
The would remain subject to the original rules, Committee does not anticipate using this rule on performance conditions and vesting schedule a routine basis but reserves the right to do so in applied to them when they were awarded.
For example, this If a newly-appointed Executive Director forfeits rule may be required if, for any reason, like-forone or more bonuses including outstanding like replacement awards on recruitment could not deferred bonuses on leaving a previous be made under existing plans.
employer, these payments or awards may be This provision would only be used to compensate replaced in either cash, Prudential shares or for remuneration forfeited on leaving a previous options over Prudential shares with an award of employer.
Replacement awards will normally be released on the same schedule as the foregone bonuses.
If a newly-appointed Executive Director forfeits one or more long-term incentive awards on leaving a previous employer, these may be replaced with Prudential awards with an equivalent value.
Replacement awards will generally be made under the terms of a long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders, and vest on the same schedule as the foregone awards.
Where foregone awards were subject to performance conditions, performance conditions will be applied to awards replacing foregone long-term incentive awards: these will be the same as those applied to the long-term incentive awards made to Prudential executives in the year in which the forfeited award was made.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 143 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Policy on payment on loss of office Element Principle Potential variations Notice periods The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service If an Executive Director is dismissed for cause contracts will not require the Company to give an executive their contract would be terminated with more than 12 months notice without prior shareholder immediate effect and they would not receive any approval.
A shorter notice period may be offered where this payments in relation to their notice period.
is in line with market practice in an executives location.
Should an executive die they would not be The Company is required to give to, and to receive from, entitled to receive payments and benefits in each of the current Executive Directors 12 months notice of respect of their notice period provisions are termination.
An Executive Director whose contract is made under the Companys life assurance terminated would be entitled to 12 months salary and scheme to provide for this circumstance see benefits in respect of their notice period.
The payment of Benefits in the policy table.
the salary and benefits would either be phased over the Should an Executive Director step down from the notice period or, alternatively, a payment in lieu of notice Board but remain employed by the Group, they may be made.
would not receive any payment in lieu of notice in In agreeing the terms of departure for any Executive respect of their service as a Director.
Director, other than on death or disablement, the Company will have regard to the need to mitigate the costs for the Company.
Outstanding The treatment of outstanding deferred bonuses will be Any Executive Director dismissed for cause deferred bonus decided by the Committee taking into account the would forfeit all outstanding deferred bonus awards circumstances of the departure including the performance awards.
Should an executive die, outstanding deferred Deferred bonus awards are normally retained by bonus awards will be released as soon as possible participants leaving the Company.
Awards will vest on the after the date of death.
original timetable and will not normally be released early on Should an Executive Director step down from the termination.
Board but remain employed by the Group, they Prior to release, awards remain subject to the malus terms would retain any outstanding deferred bonus originally applied to them.
These awards would remain subject to the original rules and vesting schedule applied to The clawback provisions will continue to apply.
them when they were awarded.
Unvested The treatment of unvested long-term incentives will be Any Executive Director dismissed for cause long-term decided by the Committee taking into account the would forfeit all unvested long-term incentive incentive circumstances of the departure including the performance awards.
awards of the Executive Directors.
On death, disablement and in other exceptional Executive Directors will normally retain their unvested circumstances, the Committee has discretion to long-term incentive awards.
These awards will ordinarily be release unvested long-term incentive awards pro-rated based on time employed, will vest on the original earlier than the end of the vesting period.
The timescale and will remain subject to the original clawback provisions will continue to apply.
performance conditions assessed over the entire Awards made under the M&G Executive LTIP will performance period.
be released immediately should the Executive Prior to release, awards remain subject to the malus terms Director leave due to disablement or death and and holding periods originally applied to them.
would be pro-rated based on time employed.
Should an Executive Director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, an executive would retain any outstanding long-term incentive awards which they held on their change of role.
These awards would remain subject to the original rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule.
144 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Policy on payment on loss of office continued Element Principle Potential variations Vested longThe treatment of vested long-term incentives will be On death, disablement and in other exceptional term incentive decided by the Committee taking into account the circumstances, the Committee has discretion to awards, subject circumstances of the departure.
release vested long-term incentive awards earlier to the holding than the end of the holding period.
The clawback Executive Directors will normally retain their vested period provisions will continue to apply.
long-term incentive awards that remain subject to the holding period.
Normally these awards will be released in Should an Executive Director step down from the accordance with the original timescale and will remain Board but remain employed by the Group, they subject to the holding period.
would retain any vested long-term incentive awards that remain subject to the holding period.
Prior to release, awards remain subject to the malus terms These awards would remain subject to the originally applied to them.
original rules and release schedule applied to them when they were awarded ie the holding period will continue to apply.
Bonus for final The payment of a bonus for the final year of service will be Any Executive Director dismissed for cause year of service decided by the Committee giving full consideration to the would not be eligible for any bonus that has not circumstances of the departure including the performance been paid.
Should an Executive Director die whilst serving as The Committee may award a departing executive a bonus an employee a time pro-rated bonus may be which will usually be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the awarded.
In such circumstances, deferral will not final financial year in which they served which had elapsed be applied and the payment will be made solely in on the last day of their employment.
Any such bonus would cash.
be calculated with reference to financial, functional and or The Committee may decide to award an personal performance measures in the usual way.
The executive stepping down from the Board but normal portion of any such bonus awarded must be remaining with the Group a bonus pro-rated to deferred.
reflect the portion of the financial year which had elapsed on the date of their change of role.
This would be calculated with reference to financial and personal or functional and personal performance measures in the usual way.
The Committee may determine that a portion of such a bonus must be deferred.
Other Consistent with other employees in their business unit, payments Executive Directors may receive payments to compensate them for the loss of employment rights on termination.
Payments may include: A nominal amount for agreeing to non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses: Directors and Officers insurance cover for a specified period following the executives termination date: Payment for outplacement services: Reimbursement of legal fees: and Repatriation assistance.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 145 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Policy on corporate transactions Treatment Deferred In the event of a corporate transaction eg takeover, material merger, winding up etc, the Remuneration Annual Committee will determine whether awards will: Incentive Plan Vest in part or in full: and or Awards Continue in accordance with the rules of the plan: and or Lapse and, in exchange, the participant will be granted an award under any other share or cash incentive plan which the Remuneration Committee considers to be broadly equivalent to the award: and or Be exchanged for replacement awards of equal value.
Prudential Long In the case of a corporate transaction eg takeover, material merger, winding up etc, the Remuneration Term Incentive Committee will determine whether awards will: Plan Be exchanged for replacement awards either in cash or shares of equal value unless the Committee and successor company agree that the original award will continue: or Be released.
Where awards are released the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the performance of the Company, the time elapsed between the date of grant and the relevant event and any other matter that the Remuneration Committee considers relevant or appropriate.
Service contracts Executive Directors service contracts provide details of the broad types of remuneration to which they are entitled, and about the kinds of plans in which they may be invited to participate.
The service contracts offer no certainty as to the value of performance-related reward and confirm that any variable payment will be at the discretion of the Company.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance.
Prudential does not consult with employees when setting the Directors remuneration policy: Prudential is a global organisation with employees, and agents in multiple business units and geographies.
As such, there are practical challenges associated with consulting with employees directly on this matter.
The Committee will keep this under review.
As many employees are also shareholders, they are able to participate in binding votes on the Directors remuneration policy and annual votes on the Annual report on remuneration.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Company undertake regular consultation with key institutional investors on the Directors remuneration policy and implementation.
This engagement is led by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is an integral part of the Companys investor relations programme.
The Committee is grateful to shareholders for the feedback that is provided and takes this into account when determining executive remuneration.
146 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors and the Chairman Fees Benefits Share ownership guidelines NonAll Non-executive Directors receive a Non-executive Directors do not It is expected that Non-executive executive basic fee for their duties as a Board currently receive benefits, a pension Directors will hold shares with a Directors member.
Additional fees are paid for allowance or participate in the value equivalent to one times the added responsibilities such as Groups employee pension schemes.
annual basic fee excluding additional chairmanship and membership of fees for chairmanship and Travel and business expenses for committees or acting as the Senior membership of any committees.
Non-executive Directors are incurred Independent Director.
Fees are paid to in the normal course of business, for Non-executive Directors will be Non-executive Directors, subject to example, in relation to attendance at expected to attain this level of share the appropriate deductions.
The ownership within three years of their The basic and additional fees are costs associated with these are all date of appointment.
reviewed annually by the Board with met by the Company, including any any changes effective from 1 July.
In tax liabilities arising on these determining the level of fees the Board business expenses.
considers: The time commitment and other requirements of the role: Group financial performance: Salary increases for all employees: and Market data.
If, in a particular year, the number of meetings is materially greater than usual, the Company may determine that the provision of additional fees in respect of that year is fair and reasonable.
Should a new committee be formed, or the remit of an existing committee be materially expanded, the new or additional fees paid for the chairmanship or membership of the committee will be commensurate with the new or additional responsibilities and time commitment involved.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 147 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors and the Chairman continued Fees Benefits Share ownership guidelines Chairman The Chairman receives an annual fee The Chairman may be offered The Chairman has a share ownership for the performance of their role.
This benefits including: guideline of one times his annual fee fee is agreed by the Remuneration and is expected to attain this level of Health and wellness benefits: Committee and is paid to the Chairman share ownership within five years of in cash, subject to the appropriate Protection and security benefits: the date of his appointment.
On appointment, the fee Transport benefits: may be fixed for a specified period of time.
Following the fixed period if Reimbursement of business applicable this fee will be reviewed expenses and any associated tax annually.
Changes in the fee are liabilities incurred when travelling effective from 1 July.
overseas in performance of duties: and In determining the level of the fee for the Chairman the Committee Relocation and expatriate benefits considers: where appropriate.
The time commitment and other The maximum paid will be the cost to requirements of the role: the Company of providing these benefits.
The performance and experience of the Chairman: The Chairman is not eligible to receive a pension allowance or to Internal relativities: participate in the Groups employee Company financial performance: pension schemes.
The Chairman is not eligible to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans.
Recruitment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director The fees for a new Non-executive Director will be consistent with the current basic fee paid to other Non-executive Directors as set out in the Annual report on remuneration for that year and will be reflective of their additional responsibilities as chair and or members of Board committees.
The fee for a new Chairman will be set with reference to the time commitment and other requirements of the role, the experience of the candidate, as well as internal relativities among the other Executive and Non-executive Directors.
To provide context for this decision, data would be sought for suitable market reference point s. Notice periods Non-executive Directors and Chairman Non-executive Directors are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment with notice periods of six months without liability for compensation.
A contractual notice period of 12 months by either party applies for the Chairman.
The Chairman would not be entitled to any payments for loss of office.
For information on the terms of appointment for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors please see page 133 of the Corporate governance report.
148 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Additional information: legacy long-term incentive plans for Executive Directors M&G Executive LTIP Operation The Chief Executive, M&G received annual awards under the M&G Executive LTIP in the period up to and Granting including 2016.
Under this plan an annual award of phantom shares was made with a notional starting share awards price of 1.
The phantom share price at vesting is determined by the performance of M&G over the three-year performance period.
Determining Awards are settled in cash.
the release of The Committee has the authority to apply clawback and or a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an M&G the award Executive LTIP award.
More details about clawback and malus are set out above.
Corporate In the event of a change of control, the Committee may determine that the award will vest immediately or transactions continue until the original vest date.
See pages 143 to 145 for details of the Committees powers in respect of M&G Executive LTIP participants joining or leaving the Group.
Opportunity The Chief Executive, M&G received an award with an initial value of 300 per cent of salary under the M&G Executive LTIP.
The maximum vesting under the M&G Executive LTIP is 100 per cent of the number of phantom shares originally awarded.
Performance The phantom share price at vesting is determined by the increase or decrease in M&Gs profitability with profit measures and investment performance adjustments also applied.
Where the investment performance of M&Gs funds is in the top two quartiles during the three-year performance period, the value of phantom shares vesting will be enhanced.
The value of phantom shares may be doubled if performance is in the top quartile.
Investment performance in the bottom quartile will result in awards being forfeited, irrespective of any profit growth.
If profits in the third year of the performance period are less than the average annual profit generated over the performance period the award will be reduced, potentially down to zero.
Buy-out award for the Chief Executive, M&G the Prudential plc 2016 Recruitment Plan In line with the announcement made on 1 February 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with Anne Richards to compensate her for unvested share awards that she forfeited as a consequence of joining Prudential.
This arrangement was put in place in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2, which allows an individual scheme to be put in place to assist with the recruitment of an Executive Director, and is consistent with the previous Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014.
Anne is the sole participant in this arrangement and no further awards will be made to Anne under the arrangement.
Details of this award are set out on page 129 of the Annual report on remuneration.
Changes to Directors remuneration policy approved at 2014 AGM Component Changes to policy approved at 2014 AGM Reason for changes Benefits Under both the current and proposed new policy, Reimbursed business expenses, and associated tax benefits included health and wellness benefits, liabilities such as, taxes levied by country revenue protection and security benefits, transport benefits, services on short-term business travellers eg when family and education benefits, all employee share overseas-based Directors travel to Board meetings plans and savings plans and relocation and expatriate held in the UK are included as a benefit for the benefits.
In addition, under the proposed new policy, benefits As this tax is incurred in performance of the Directors also include reimbursed business expenses duties, and is in addition to the tax paid by the Director including any associated tax liability incurred when in the country in which he or she is resident, the travelling overseas in performance of duties.
The Company does not pay the tax due on salary in the country in which the Director is resident.
Annual cash The Committee has the power to recover all, or a In line with the requirements of the UK Corporate bonus portion of, deferred bonus awards made since 2015 Governance Code, the Committee has had the power in specific circumstances and within a defined to recover clawback awards made since 2015 in time frame.
specific circumstances and within a defined time frame.
For clarity, this power is now reflected in the policy.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 149 New Directors remuneration policy Continued Changes to Directors remuneration policy approved at 2014 AGM continued Component Changes to policy approved at 2014 AGM Reason for changes Long-term The Committee has the power to recover all, or a In line with the requirements of the UK Corporate incentives portion of, awards made since 2015 in specific Governance Code, the Committee has had the power circumstances and within a defined time frame.
to recover clawback awards made since 2015 in specific circumstances and within a defined time frame.
Executive Directors are required to hold their net of For clarity, this power is now reflected in the policy.
tax vested PLTIP shares, awarded in 2017 and subsequent years, for two years following the end of The two-year holding period is consistent with investor the three-year performance period, creating a guidance for shares to have at least a five-year five-year performance and holding period.
The M&G Executive LTIP has been replaced with a Shareholders are in favour of simplification, in commensurate PLTIP award for the Chief Executive, particular, using a single long-term incentive plan for M&G.
Executive Directors and the Committee shared this view.
Delivering more of the Chief Executive, M&G incentive in Prudential shares strengthens her alignment with the Companys shareholders and is consistent with the way in which other Executive Directors are rewarded.
Share ownership The share ownership guidelines have been updated Shareholding guidelines among large listed companies guidelines as follows: have continued to increase over recent years and the Committee wanted to recognise this and to maximise Increased from 350 per cent of base salary to the Executive Directors community of interest with the 400 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive: Companys shareholders.
and Increased from 200% of base salary to 250% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Approach to The policy on replacement awards on recruitment of The updates to the policy are intended to give the recruitment an Executive Director has been clarified to: Committee a range of approaches which might be used remuneration in replacing awards forfeited by a newly-appointed Specifically include options over Prudential shares Director on their departure from their previous in addition to cash and Prudential shares : and employer.
This is in line with our overriding principle Clarify that performance conditions will be applied that replacement awards should, as far as possible, where foregone awards were subject to reflect the terms of those forfeited.
Policy on The policy on payment of loss of office has been The updates to the policy are intended to clarify the payment of loss clarified to: treatment of leavers in specific circumstances.
of office Specifically state that should an Executive Director die while serving as a Director, a time pro-rated bonus may be awarded but deferral would not be applied: and Repatriation assistance may be provided consistent with other employees.
Corporate A new section has been added to the policy to cover This new section has been added in response to a transactions corporate transactions and the Committees request from shareholders to set out the Committees discretion in these circumstances to: discretion on corporate transactions.
These provisions appear in the Rules of the PLTIP which were approved Allow full or partial vesting or continuation or lapse by shareholders in 2013 but are now included in the and exchange of deferred bonus awards: and policy for completeness.
Exchange or release taking into account performance, time elapsed and other relevant matters of PLTIP awards.
Policy for The policy on Non-executive Directors fees has The updates to the policy are intended to clarify how it Non-executive been clarified to permit new or additional fees would be applied should the number or remit of Directors should a new committee be formed or the remit of an Committees of the Board change.
150 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 04 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Statement of implementation in 2017 Executive Directors Executive Directors remuneration packages were reviewed in 2016 with changes effective from 1 January 2017.
When the Committee took these decisions, it considered the salary increases awarded to other employees in 2016 and the expected increases in 2017.
The external market reference points used to provide context to the Committee were identical to those used for 2016 salaries.
All Executive Directors, other than the Chief Executive, M&G and the Group Chief Risk Officer, received a salary increase of 2 per cent.
The Chief Executive, M&G received no salary increase and the Group Chief Risk Officer received a salary increase of 5 per cent.
The 2017 salary increase budgets for other employees across the Groups business units were between 2.5 per cent and 6 per cent.
No changes have been made to executives maximum opportunities under either the annual incentive or the long-term incentive plans.
In 2017, the AIP performance measures have been simplified from seven to four measures and Executive Directors 2017 bonuses will be determined by the achievement of IFRS operating profit, operating free surplus, NBP EEV profit and cash flow, which are aligned to the Groups growth and cash generation focus.
This reflected the Committees objective to simplify the AIP metrics.
As part of the continuing implementation of Solvency II, the weightings of Penny Jamess AIP performance targets with effect from 2017 have been changed so that her entire AIP outcome relates to a combination of functional and personal measures.
As detailed in the new Directors remuneration policy, all long-term incentive awards made to Executive Directors in 2017 will be made under the PLTIP.
The vesting of these awards will depend on: Relative TSR 25 per cent of award : Group or business unit IFRS profit 50 per cent of award : and Balanced scorecard of strategic measures 25 per cent of award.
As part of the continuing implementation of Solvency II, the weightings of Penny Jamess LTIP performance targets with effect from 2017 will be different to the other Executive Directors and will be: Relative TSR 50 per cent of award : Group IFRS profit 20 per cent of award : and Balanced scorecard of strategic measures 30 per cent of award.
Under the Group TSR measure, 25 per cent of the award vests for TSR at the median of the peer group increasing to full vesting for performance within the upper quartile.
Following a comprehensive review of the peer group, supported by the Remuneration Committees independent adviser and the Groups Investor Relations team, three companies Aflac, Munich Re and Swiss Re have been removed for the 2017 awards because their products and geographic footprints are insufficiently similar to those of the Group.
TSR is measured on a local currency basis since this has the benefit of simplicity and directness of comparison.
The peer group for the 2017 awards is: Aegon Aviva AIA AIG Allianz Manulife AXA Generali Legal & General Prudential Financial MetLife Sun Life Financial Old Mutual Zurich Insurance Group Standard Life Under the IFRS measure, 25 per cent of the award vests for meeting the threshold IFRS profit set at the start of the performance period increasing to full vesting for performance at or above the stretch level.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 151 Annual report on remuneration Continued Under the balanced scorecard, performance is assessed for each of the four measures, at the end of the three year performance period.
Each of the measures has equal weighting and these measures are set out below.
Capital measure Cumulative three-year ECap Group operating capital generation relative to plan, less cost of capital based on the capital position at the start of the performance period.
Vesting basis: 100 per cent vesting for achieving plan, otherwise 0 per cent vesting.
The plan figure for this metric will be published in the Annual Report for the final year of the performance period.
Capital measure Cumulative three-year Solvency II Group operating capital generation as captured in published disclosures relative to plan.
Conduct measure Through appropriate management action, ensure there are no significant conduct culture governance issues which result in significant capital add-ons or material fines.
Vesting basis: 100 per cent for achieving the Groups expectations, otherwise 0 per cent vesting.
Diversity measure Percentage of the Leadership Team that is female at the end of 2019.
The target for this metric will be based on progress towards the goal that the Company set when it signed the Women in Finance Charter, specifically that 30 per cent of our Leadership Team will be female at the end of 2021.
For this portion of PLTIP awards made in 2017 to vest, at least 27 per cent of our Leadership Team must be female at the end of 2019.
Vesting basis: 100 per cent vesting for achieving the target, otherwise 0 per cent vesting.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors Fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors were reviewed in 2016 with changes effective from 1 July 2016 as set out on page 130.
The next review will be effective 1 July 2017.
As referred to in the report of the Nomination and Governance Committee, the appointment of a Chairman of the Board of a material subsidiary Jackson National Life Insurance Company has been agreed.
The Remuneration Committee has approved a fee of 250,000 per annum, fixed for a period of two years from the date of the appointment.
This fee will be payable in US dollars and is the same as the fee agreed for the chairmen of the boards of Prudential Assurance Company Limited, M&G Group Limited and Prudential Corporation Asia Limited.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has approved a basic fee of 70,000 per annum for membership of the boards of these material subsidiaries, a fee for membership of the audit or risk committees of 10,000 per annum and a fee for chairing those committees of 30,000 per annum.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Anthony Nightingale, CMG SBS JP Paul Manduca Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman 13 March 2017 13 March 2017 152 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
