08 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Governance statement of the chair of the remuneration committee As well as focusing the Executive Directors on delivery of introduction financial performance, the Committee also set a number of On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 2016 strategic objectives for the year, as part of the Groups longRemuneration Report.
term strategy to focus on higher growth and value add business.
This year has seen the successful completion The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the of a three year project to move to a new operating model framework and policy for remuneration of the Executive structured around three core functions of category, Directors and Chairman.
It is also responsible for the operation commercial and supply chain, resulting in faster and more of senior management incentive schemes throughout consistent brand and product development.
In addition, the the Group.
Groups new SAP-enabled IT system has successfully gone live in Asia earlier this year, with the rest of the Group scheduled The Annual Report on Remuneration pages 18 to 25 sets out tofollow within the next 12 months.
The delivery of these how we implemented our Remuneration Policy for the year major projects will bring significant operational efficiencies ended 31 May 2016 and how we intend to implement it during and, combined with a focus on talent and succession planning, the year ending 31 May 2017.
Our approved Policy is provided seeks to secure the long-term health of the business.
on pages 10 to 17 for reference.
The Group is also committed to creating sustainable value for our approach to remuneration all and a focus throughout the year on the environmental impact of all operations has resulted in the Group meeting the forexecutives carbon emission and water consumption reduction targets The principal aim of our Remuneration Policy is to drive the which were set at the beginning of the year.
generation of long-term sustainable shareholder value by aligning the interests of our executives with those of our Taking into account performance during the year, key aspects Shareholders.
We are committed to rewarding our executives of remuneration earned during the year were: fairly based on their role, performance and contribution salary reviews As disclosed in last years report, the salary to thebusiness.
We also seek, when designing incentive of the CEO was increased by 3.4 per cent on 1 September structures, to set challenging targets and reward sustainable 2015.
The CFOs and COOs salaries were increased by performance while avoiding inadvertently encouraging risky 2.8 per cent.
These increases were within the range of salary orirresponsible behaviour.
increases provided to other employees elsewhere in the PZ Cussons Group.
remuneration earned in 2015 16 Bonus pay-out of 47.4 per cent of maximum opportunity In an environment which has created some of the most In last years Annual Report on Remuneration we reported challenging trading conditions of recent times the Group has that we would continue to focus the on-target element of delivered a steady set of results in the year ended 31 May 2016. the annual bonus on performance against three key financial indicators: profit before tax and exceptional items, net The liquidity squeeze and restrictions in foreign exchange working capital and operating contribution margin.
The availability in Nigeria, caused by the fall in the oil price, and balance of maximum bonus opportunity was dependent on weakening currencies in Asian markets have impacted delivery of i a profit before tax and exceptional items stretch negatively on performance.
However, the decision over recent target and ii certain strategic and CSR stretch non-financial years to rebalance profits and reduce reliance on Nigeria has objectives.
The targets set for 2015 16 are disclosed served the Group well.
Our strong performance in Europe, retrospectively in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
aswell as the newly acquired Australian food businesses, has maintained underlying revenue at prior year levels and ensured The profit target set at the beginning of the year has been that, excluding the impact of currency, operating profit has partially attained, whilst the operating contribution margin also remained broadly flat.
As a result, the Board was able to was wholly achieved and the non-financial strategic and declare a further increase in the full year dividend, representing CSR stretch targets were largely achieved.
The net working 43 consecutive years over which the dividend has been capital target was not met, principally due to the decision to increased year-on-year.
build up stock levels in Nigeria to mitigate currency impacts.
This resulted in the Executive Directors qualifying for total bonus payments equivalent to 47.4 per cent of their maximum opportunity in respect of the year.
6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 8 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 09 long-term incentives As reported last year, Earnings Per Share EPS performance over the three year period ended 31 May 2015 was such that 32.5 per cent of awards made to Executive Directors in 2012 under the Performance Share Plan vested in July 2015.
Details are included in the tables within the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The awards made to Executive Directors in 2013 are subject to EPS performance over a three year period ended 31 May 2016.
These performance conditions were not achieved and, accordingly, these awards will shortly wholly lapse.
our approach in 2016 17 The current Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at our 2014 AGM and the Committee is not proposing to make anychanges to remuneration which would require further Shareholder approval.
The year ending 31 May 2017 represents the third and final year covered by the Policy and the Committee will undertake a review during the coming year andpresent a new Policy to Shareholders for their approval atthe 2017 AGM.
In the meantime, our approach to remuneration matters in thecoming year is unchanged.
However, I should like to draw tothe attention of Shareholders the following matters: long-term incentives The Committee has reviewed the performance targets which will apply to the Performance Share Plan awards which will be made to Executive Directors in the 2016 17 financial year and has concluded that it is appropriate to apply the same performance conditions as in the prior year.
We will continue to review the potential for the introduction of an additional measure but, at the present time, we remain satisfied that EPS continues to be the most appropriate measure of long-term performance.
salary increases The Committee has decided, with effect from 1 September 2016, to increase the base salaries of each of the Executive Directors by 2 per cent.
These increases are based on individual performance and are within the range ofsalary increases being awarded to the Groups wider UK-based employee population.
I hope you will find the Report on Directors Remuneration clear, transparent and informative and that this statement hasbeen helpful in setting out our approach to the 2016 17 financial year.
We are committed to engaging with Shareholders in respect of remuneration issues and welcome your views on the matters set out within the 2016 Report on Directors Remuneration.
helen owers chair of the remuneration committee 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
