76 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee actions on remuneration outcomes Before I outline RBs approach to remuneration and how the Remuneration Committee the Committee has implemented the policy approved by Shareholders at last years AGM, I would like to cover the Committees actions and use of discretion in determining remuneration outcomes.
The last year has brought both challenges and opportunities for RB.
One of the Boards top priorities has been absorbing the lessons from the tragic events in South Korea surrounding humidifier sanitisers HS and RBs involvement in this industry-wide issue.
In response, RB has taken meaningful action to further strengthen our safety, quality and compliance culture.
In February 2017, we announced the proposed acquisition of Mead Johnson Nutrition, a significant Central to our remuneration philosophy step forward in RBs journey as a leader in consumer health.
are the principles of pay for performance, The Remuneration Committee has taken action in respect of both of Shareholder alignment and simplicity.
these one-off events: in addition to those taken by the Committee following extensive engagement with our Shareholders throughout the Judy Sprieser year, as part of our annual review of remuneration arrangements.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Significant reductions in 2016 pay outcomes for CEO 2016 has been a difficult year in RBs long and otherwise successful history.
Pages 14 to 15 of this report set out further background to the HS issue in South Korea and the events which took place between 2001 On behalf of the Board of Directors, it gives me great pleasure to and 2011, together with actions subsequently taken by the Company.
present to you the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Whilst acknowledging that the events occurred before the tenure of the current CEO, the Committee has considered the HS issue in the context I trust that you find this a clear and comprehensive report that of pay decisions for 2016. illustrates the strong alignment between RBs performance and our Executive Directors remuneration.
RBs strong financial performance over the last three years has created over 18 billion of value for our Shareholders.
However, in the context In this section I have set out the key decisions taken by the of the HS issue, the Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate Remuneration Committee during the year, RBs approach to to exercise discretion to reduce the payout levels in respect of both the remuneration and how we have implemented the Remuneration annual bonus and the long-term incentive plan LTIP : Policy.
The remainder of the report summarises RBs policy and No annual bonus will be paid to the CEO for 2016: and then details the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The LTIP vesting for the CEO will be reduced by 50%.
This will be my last Directors Remuneration Report as I will be The impact of this discretion is to reduce the CEOs single figure by stepping down from the post of Chair in November 2017.
Mary Harris 14 million from that which would have been earned based on the 2016 will join the Committee following the AGM and will succeed me.
I will financial performance and RBs continued outperformance of long-term remain as a member of the Remuneration Committee and give her my financial measures and delivery of shareholder value.
Further details are full support.
Iwish her well in her new role.
set out in the remainder of the report.
This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Report meets the requirements of the FCA Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Treatment of potential acquisition Executive Directors and senior management have significant share ownership requirements that ensure an ongoing focus on sustainable All outstanding LTIP awards are subject to an earnings per share EPS growth performance measure and the Remuneration Policy approved by creation of Shareholder value.
However, in addition to the adjustments to EPS described above the Remuneration Committee will also exercise shareholders requires future awards to vest based on EPS growth.
downwards discretion on LTIP vesting if the return on capital in respect of the proposed acquisition of Mead Johnson does not meet the The Remuneration Committee remains of the view that a single LTIP measure of EPS growth is the approach most in the interests of expectations agreed by the Board, at the time of the approval of the acquisition.
More information would be provided at the time of vesting.
Shareholders, provided that it is implemented in such a manner as to continually ensure alignment between management and Shareholder 2017 and 2018 LTIP awards interests.
We have long recognised that management should not be rewarded through incentives due to an increase in EPS deriving simply The Remuneration Committee keeps the LTIP awards made to Executive Directors under regular review.
As set out in detail later in this report, from a material gearing of the Balance Sheet.
the Committee has significantly reduced the 2017 awards to the CEO and CFO under the LTIP.
The proposed acquisition of Mead Johnson requires the Remuneration Committee to consider the manner in which the EPS measure is The number of performance shares awarded to the CEO in December calculated for outstanding awards in order to maintain the alignment between LTIP participants and Shareholders.
We have therefore 2016 was reduced by 37.5%, with the number of share options reduced by 25% compared to the 2016 LTIP, awarded December 2015.
For the considered how to ensure that there is no benefit to LTIP participants from any gearing benefit of the acquisition, and we are grateful for the CFO, the number of shares and options are 15% lower.
feedback from our major Shareholders on this issue.
The performance conditions attached to the awards are set out in full on page 87 and require adjusted diluted EPS growth of 10% per annum If the proposed acquisition of Mead Johnson proceeds then the Committee intends to make appropriate adjustments to the way in over the three year period for the awards to vest in full.
which the EPS growth is calculated in order to ensure that the targets remain as stretching as prior to the acquisition and that managements The Remuneration Committee has also determined that the CEOs 2018 LTIP awards will have a further significant reduction.
The number of and Shareholders interests remain fully aligned.
shares and options to be awarded in December 2017 will be reduced by a further one-third.
The overall impact of these changes in 2017 Full details of any adjustments will be disclosed at the time the awards vest, but a summary of the intended treatment is set out below: and 2018 is that the LTIP award for the CEO will have reduced by more than half: In calculating EPS growth from 2016 to 2017, 2017 EPS will be Change adjusted to exclude the contribution of Mead Johnson on a CEO LTIP award 2016 2017 2018 2016-18 proforma basis.
The Committee will also reserve the right to exercise Number of Options 400,000 300,000 200,000 50% downward discretion in the event that the results of Mead Johnson Number of Shares 240,000 150,000 100,000 58% between completion of the transaction and the end of 2017 are materially below the acquisition plan.
In calculating EPS growth from 2017 to 2018, the 2017 EPS figure Shareholder engagement will be adjusted on a pro-forma basis to include Mead Johnson In the Remuneration Committee reaching the decisions outlined above, results for the full year, including notional interest and tax.
I have had extensive discussions with Shareholders and I am grateful for The Remuneration Committee will also make corresponding the time taken to engage on these issues and the feedback provided adjustments for any other transactions linked to the financing or throughout the process which has been reflected in the decisions that other aspects of the proposed Mead Johnson acquisition.
The approach outlined above will ensure that any increase in EPS I trust that the Committee can count on your support in respect of the deriving simply from the acquisition will be excluded from the actions outlined above, together with how we have implemented the calculation of the LTIP vesting.
i. e. EPS growth in each year will be Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
measured on a like-for-like basis such that management will only be rewarded for delivering growth in EPS in respect of ongoing business The remainder of my letter summarises our Directors Remuneration performance, either before or after the potential acquisition, but not Policy and its implementation, in order to assist Shareholders in due to it.
understanding RBs remuneration structure and the link to performance and Shareholder value creation.
The approach described above is consistent with that taken by the Remuneration Committee in respect of the LTIP that vested in May 2015, Our Annual Report on Remuneration is on pages 82 to 92 and sets out following the demerger of RBP as Indivior PLC.
The gain on demerger how we have implemented the Remuneration Policy in 2016 and the and historic earnings related to RBP were excluded from the calculation decisions made for 2017 remuneration.
We will be seeking Shareholder of EPS for the purposes of LTIP vesting.
This reduced the vesting from approval for this report at the AGM on 4 May 2017.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 78 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Delivering on RBs strategy Directors At the core of our remuneration philosophy also lies the commitment to align our remuneration arrangements to the execution of our corporate strategy.
Remuneration As outlined on pages 22 to 35, the three fundamental concepts betterfinancials, bettersociety and betterenvironment are the pillars Report behind our betterbusiness strategy that is driving our growth and outperformance versus our peers.
continued Our Remuneration Policy is designed to drive the Companys financial strategy of growth and outperformance in revenue and profit, while incentivising sustainable long-term growth in Shareholder value.
Context for executive remuneration at RB Objectives of the Remuneration Policy approved by It is RBs purpose combined with our passion that drives our Shareholders at 2016 AGM performance.
RB has a unique culture that focuses around four key Drive outperformance and Shareholder value through a high values: Achievement, Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership see proportion of long-term variable pay pages 36 to 37.
At RB these values are interlinked and define how Attract and retain the best global talent decisions are made, how people act and how we assess and reward Align the interests of management and Shareholders through them.
Senior management at RB are driven to outperform by acting like a meaningful share ownership policy owners and having the drive and passion of entrepreneurs.
Ensure simplicity and transparency for management and Shareholders RB strives for top global performance which requires us to compete for top global talent.
Our management team is multinational, globally mobile and we compete for this talent against a peer group of global To reinforce this philosophy, the Committee ensures that the majority of the Executive Directors remuneration packages are made up of variable companies.
The Committee believes that RBs approach to remuneration plays an important part in supporting this strong performance culture, at-risk pay, linked to stretching financial targets that align with our strategy, with a large proportion of the package delivered in RB shares.
reflects the global nature of our business and delivers significant benefits to all Shareholders.
This approach is cascaded to our senior management.
Key principles central to our remuneration Propo ion of on-target variable pay for CEO philosophy Pay for performance Fixed pay 15% Shareholder alignment Annual bonus 13% Simplicity LTIP 72% This philosophy is implemented in RB through our long-standing, highly performance-driven approach which is cascaded throughout the In line with growth objectives outlined under betterfinancials, we use Company, such that our Top400 executives participate in the same stretching Net Revenue and Adjusted Net Income growth targets in our annual bonus and LTIP structures as the Executive Directors.
executives annual bonus structure and adjusted diluted EPS growth in our LTIP.
This ensures we all strive towards the same performance outcomes and the Committee believes this has been a key factor in RBs success in Evolution of Remuneration Policy demonstrates delivering significant value to Shareholders.
commitment to pay for performance and Shareholder alignment Whilst the principles of RBs remuneration philosophy have remained the 100 invested in RB on 1 January 2000, following the same over time, the Committee continues to review RBs Remuneration merger of Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser, was worth Policy and engage with our Shareholders on a regular basis to gather 1,926 on 31 December 2016, compared to growth in the valuable feedback and better understand their perspectives.
FTSE 100 to 185 over the same period.
The Committee has considered the feedback received from Shareholders in its discussions to ensure that relevant areas of concern are addressed.
This has resulted in RB making a number of changes to our remuneration framework in recent years.
We have continued to lead discussions with a number of Shareholders during 2016 and 2017.
As outlined elsewhere in this report, changes made by the Committee this year include the use of discretion to reduce the 2016 pay outcomes, treatment of the proposed Mead Johnson acquisition and significant reductions to LTIP awards in 2017, with a commitment to further reduce the CEOs award in 2018.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key changes to the Remuneration Policy over the last five years include: Reflecting best practice in the Executive Directors contracts so that payment upon termination no longer includes bonus Further enhancing the longer-term pay for performance link by stretching the LTIP performance conditions.
The Committee reduced the level of vesting at threshold performance to 20%, and increased the performance required for maximum vesting to adjusted diluted EPS growth of 10% per annum, thereby reducing the number of shares vesting at the previously required maximum Enhancing the level of disclosure in our Remuneration Report, including the disclosure of annual bonus targets on a retrospective basis Exercising downward discretion for the LTIP vesting in May 2015 to ensure it was fair and appropriate, by excluding the gain made on the demerger of Indivior and the historic earnings of RBP from the EPS calculation for purposes of determining vesting.
This resulted in a reduction in the vesting from 100% to 40% Introducing malus and clawback provisions into the LTIP Reducing the maximum number of performance shares and options in the Remuneration Policy that may be awarded under the LTIP Introducing an additional two-year holding period in respect of unvested share options and performance share awards upon cessation of employment RBs management are owners The Remuneration Committee believes that our ownership RBs performance-driven remuneration philosophy is underpinned by an requirements ensure that senior executives focus on the creation of ownership culture throughout the Company, which is reinforced by our sustainable long-term Shareholder value.
Given this substantial share significant shareholding requirements.
ownership requirement, the Committee believes that extended holding periods are not necessary.
The CEO is required to hold 600,000 shares and the CFO 200,000 shares within eight years of appointment, which currently represent This focus on encouraging every senior executive to think as an more than 44x salary and 23x salary respectively.
This shareholding owner and act in the long-term interests of Shareholders is cascaded requirement is significantly the most demanding in the market: the throughout RB.
For EVPs the ownership requirement is 200,000 shares, highest share ownership requirement in our peer group is 8x salary and for the remainder of our Top40 executives is between 30,000 and amongst other FTSE 100 companies is 7x salary.
and 50,000 shares, on average representing 10x salary.
The aggregate current shareholding for our Top40 executives is in excess of 190 million.
Shareholding of Executive Directors vs requirement Implementing the Policy approved by Shareholders CEO At RB, the remuneration packages are designed to support the philosophy of pay for performance and alignment between management and Shareholders, whilst being underpinned by simplicity and transparency.
CFO There were no changes made to the remuneration structure during 2016.
All awards were made in line with the Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders at the 2016 AGM, to ensure continued pay for performance and Shareholder alignment.
Shareholding requirement Current shareholding 2016 vesting 1 2016 vesting shows estimated number of performance shares which However, as set out in more detail above, the Committee has will vest in respect of performance to 2016, after tax.
exercised discretion in operation of the Policy for 2016 in connection with the annual bonus and LTIP vesting for the CEO.
He will not receive a 2016 bonus and the LTIP vesting was reduced from 100%, based on the performance against the vesting schedule, to 50% vesting.
Further details on the impact of this on the CEOs 2016 pay is set out on page 84.
Pay for performance Shareholder alignment Annual bonus Packages focus on variable pay, designed Incentivises KPIs which lead to creation to reward outperformance of shareholder value Aligned fully with KPIs of Net Revenue Clawback provisions apply and Adjusted Net Income growth Measures are multiplicative to incentivise both top and bottom line growth Long-term incentive plan Packages focus on variable pay, designed Vesting based on long-term growth in to reward outperformance adjusted, diluted EPS Aligned with long-term growth strategy Value of shares and share options directly through KPIs of EPS and share price growth linked to increase in share price Malus and clawback provisions apply Additional two year holding period after leaving Shareholding requirements Promotes focus on management of corporate Most demanding in the market risks CEO: 600,000 shares c. 44x salary CFO: 200,000 shares c. 23x salary Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 80 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In addition to this excellent relative outperformance, RB has delivered Directors significant absolute value to Shareholders over the three year performance period.
Since 1 January 2014 RB has created value for our Shareholders of 18 billion, through the increase in the share price, Remuneration dividends paid to Shareholders and the demerger of Indivior.
However, as set out above, despite this excellent financial performance, Report the Remuneration Committee has considered the HS issue in making decisions on LTIP vesting for the CEO.
Whilst acknowledging that the continued events occurred before his tenure as CEO, the Committee has exercised its discretion to reduce the LTIP vesting from 100% to 50%.
In addition, in respect of 2017, long-term incentive awards for Executive Directors have been significantly reduced from previous years.
The number of performance shares awarded to the CEO were reduced by The key decisions taken during the year are summarised below and are 37.5% with the number of options reduced by 25%.
For the CFO the set out in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
number of shares and options were 15% lower than the 2016 LTIP award.
The Committee has also committed to making further reductions Fixed pay of one-third for the CEO awards due to be made in December 2017 in Base salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed and increased by respect of 2018.
3% in line with general employee salary increases effective from 1 January 2016.
The Committee has also maintained this approach Summary when reviewing 2017 Executive Director salaries, with increases of 3% 2016 2017 granted with effect from 1 January 2017.
Salary 3% increase 3% increase Annual bonus CEO: zero bonus Same structure as 2016 Annual In line with our approved Remuneration Policy, RB operates an annual CFO: 18% of maximum Stretching NR and NI Bonus bonus plan that is strongly aligned to performance, measured against targets stretching growth targets set by the Committee at the start of the year.
CEO: 50% vesting Same structure as 2016 LTIP 2016 was a year of broad-based growth and excellent margin CFO: 100% vesting Significant reductions in expansion.
Despite challenging markets, we achieved like-for-like Net awards Revenue growth of 3% and our virtuous earnings model continued to deliver significant value creation for Shareholders.
2016 Single figure The resultant single figure of total remuneration is detailed on page However, the 2016 results fell short of the stretching outperformance 84 and summarised in the chart below.
As can be seen, the majority of targets set by the Committee for Net Revenue growth and Adjusted Net RBs total remuneration package is variable pay linked to delivery of Income growth and the outcome is a 2016 bonus at 18% of maximum financial outperformance and creation of value for Shareholders.
As set out above, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the CEO will not receive a 2016 bonus payment.
More than 90% of the CEOs 2016 total remuneration is made up of variable remuneration linked to achievement of stretching long-term The annual bonus for 2017 will operate based on the same structure outperformance of the Company and delivered in RB shares.
In with performance remaining subject to stretching NR and NI targets.
particular, more than half of the value of the CEOs package is as a direct result of the significant share price growth over the last three Long Term Incentive Plan vesting of 2014 LTIP awards years, which has seen RB create 18 billion of value for our The performance period for awards made under the LTIP in December Shareholders.
Our key long-term measure of performance is EPS growth.
The CEO Remuneration Committee continues to consider it is the most 14.6m appropriate measure of value creation over the long term.
LTIP vesting requires significant growth over the performance period in order to CFO vest, with full vesting only achieved if the Company significantly 6.5m outperforms the industry benchmark.
2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0 0 million Earnings per share over the three year period from 2014 to 2016, Fixed remuneration Bonus Value of LTIP at award measured on adjusted, diluted basis, grew by 36%, equivalent to Share price increase of LTIP award compound average annual growth of 10.8% per annum.
This outstanding performance over the last three years results in vesting Conclusion of 100% being achieved when measured against the vesting schedule I hope that you find this a clear and comprehensive report that approved by Shareholders.
demonstrates RBs commitment to a strong link between pay and performance and delivery of value to our Shareholders, as well as the The sustained underlying growth in our key financial metrics has Committees responsiveness to Shareholder feedback.
generated substantial value for our Shareholders over this period.
100 invested in RB on 1 January 2014, was worth 158 by I trust that we can count on your support at the forthcoming AGM for 31 December 2016, compared with growth in the FTSE 100 to just 118 the decisions we have taken as a Committee during the year.
Judy Sprieser Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 March 2017 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
