84 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Remuneration Policy Report Set out in this section is the companys proposed new remuneration policy for Directors, which, subject to shareholder approval by RELXPLC and RELX NV shareholders, will apply for three years from the conclusion of the RELX PLC AGM to be heldon 20April 2017.
The key changes from the previous remuneration policy which is set out in the 2013 Annual Reports and Financial Statements and was approved by RELX PLC shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the rationale for the changes are explained in the Committee Chairmans introduction on pages 81 to 83.
Remuneration policy table Executive Directors All footnotes to the policy table can be found on pages 86 to 87.
ANNUAL BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy To recruit and retain the best executive talent globally to execute our strategic objectives at appropriate cost.
Operation Salaries for Executive Directors are set and reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee the Committee with changes typically taking effect on 1 January.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may review salaries more frequently.
When reviewing salaries, the Committee considers the executives role and sustained value to the company in terms of skill, experience and overall contribution and the companys guidelines for salaries for all employees for the year.
Periodically, competitiveness with companies which are comparable in respect of industry, size, international scope and complexity is also considered in order to ensure the companys ability to attract and retain executives.
For the last five years, Executive Directors salary increases have been 2.5% per annum.
Performance framework N A Maximum value Salary increases to Executive Directors will remain within the range of increases for the wider employee population.
However, the Committee has discretion to exceed this to take account of individual circumstances such as change in responsibility, increases in scale or complexity of the business, inflation or alignment to market level.
Recovery of sums paid No provision.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Retirement plans are part of remuneration packages designed to recruit and retain the best executive talent at appropriate cost.
Operation Our policy is to offer competitive long-term sustainable defined contribution plans.
Any amount above applicable limits, for example HMRCs annual allowance in the UK, will be paid in cash and will be subject to tax and social security deductions.
In certain circumstances, executives can take cash instead of pension contributions.
The UK defined benefit schemes are closed to new hires.
Continued membership of legacy defined benefit schemes requires annual increases to contributions and participation fees from all members, who have a choice to switch to the defined contribution plan at anytime.
th The CEO is a member of a UK legacy defined benefit pension arrangement, accruing 1 30 of final year pensionable earnings for each year pro-rated for part years of service, with a normal retirement age of 60.
In line with all UK defined benefit scheme members, the CEOs contributions have been increasing annually since 2011 and will be 11% of pensionable earnings up to the base schemes earnings cap from 1 March 2017.
The contribution rate will increase by a further two percentage points each year to 17% by 1 March 2020.
The CEO also pays a participation fee which, from 1 March 2017, will be 10% of the amount of his pensionable earnings in excess of the base schemes earnings cap.
The participation fee will increase annually by three percentage points to 19% by 1 March 2020.
In addition, from March 2017, a cap will be introduced of 2% per annum on the increase in the CEOs pensionable earnings.
Performance framework N A Maximum value Defined contribution plan maximum company contribution of 25% of salary per annum or equivalent cash in lieu.
The CFO currently receives 30% of salary under an arrangement which was made pursuant to the previous remuneration policy, which contained a 30% of salary maximum.
From March 2017, the CFOs company contribution will decrease by 1% to 29% and then by a further two percentage points each year to 25% by March 2019. th Defined benefit scheme accrual of 1 30 of final year pensionable earnings for every year of service up to a maximum of 2 3rds of pensionable earnings.
As noted above under Operation, the CEO is subject to increases in his contributions and in the participation fee, as well asacap on annual increases in pensionable earnings, as part of his ongoing membership of this scheme.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 85 OTHER BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive benefits at appropriate cost.
Operation Other benefits, subject to periodic review, may include private medical and dental cover, life assurance, tax return preparation costs, car benefits, directors and officers liability insurance, relocation benefits and expatriate allowances and other benefits available to employees generally, including, where appropriate, the tax on such benefits.
Performance framework N A Maximum value The maximum for ongoing benefits for Executive Directors will not normally exceed 10% of salary excluding relocation benefits and any tax related charge on benefits which is met by the company.
However, the Committee may provide reasonable benefits beyond this amount in exceptional situations, such as a change in the individuals circumstances caused by the company, or if there is a significant 1 increase in the cost of providing the agreed benefit.
AIP ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN Purpose and link to strategy The annual incentive provides focus on the delivery of annual financial targets and the achievement of annual objectives and milestones which are chosen to align with the companys strategy and create a platform for sustainable future performance.
The compulsory deferral of one-third of any annual incentive earned into RELX shares for three years promotes longer-term alignment of Executive Directors interests with shareholders interests, including an element of post-termination shareholding.
Why performance measures are chosen and how targets are set Performance measures include a balanced set of financial targets and Key Performance Objectives KPOs, which are appropriately weighted and which support current strategy and incentivise the Executive Directors to achieve the desired outcomes without undue risk of focusing on any one financial measure.
The targets are designed to be challenging.
They are set with reference to the previous years performance and internal and external forecasts for the following year.
Operation The Committee reviews and sets the financial targets and KPOs annually, taking into account internal forecasts and strategic plans.
Itapproves four to six KPOs for each Executive Director, reflecting critical business priorities for which each is accountable.
At least one KPO will relate to the achievement of sustainability targets.
Following year end, the Committee compares actual performance with the financial targets and assesses the achievement of individual KPOs.
Two-thirds of any annual incentive earned is paid in cash to the Executive Director and the remaining one-third is deferred into RELX shares, which are not released to the Executive Director for three years.
Dividend equivalents accrued during the deferral period are payable in respect of the shares that vest.
On a change in control, the default position is that deferred shares vest.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that deferred shares will not vest and will instead be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
Performance framework The measures include financial targets, which have a weighting of at least 70%, and individual KPOs, with each element assessed separately.
The minimum payout is zero.
If threshold is reached for each of the financial measures, the overall payout for the financial measures is 10.5% of salary.
If the financial measure with the lowest weighting pays out at threshold and the others do not pay out at all, the overall payout for financial measures is 1.5% of salary.
There is no threshold level for KPOs.
Payout for target performance is 150% of salary.
Following an assessment of achievement and scoring of KPOs, the Committee agrees the overall level of earned incentive for each Executive Director.
Maximum value The maximum potential annual incentive is 200% of annual base salary.
This includes the deferred share element but excludes dividend equivalents payable in respect of the deferred shares.
Recovery of sums paid 5 Claw-back applies.
86 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Purpose and link to strategy The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is designed to provide a long-term incentive for Executive Directors to achieve the key performance measures that support the companys strategy, and to align their interests with shareholders.
Why performance measures are chosen and how targets are set Our strategic focus is on continuing to transform the core business through organic investment and the build out of new products into adjacent markets and geographies, supplemented by selective portfolio acquisitions and divestments.
The performance measures in the LTIP are chosen to support this strategy by focusing on sustained earnings growth, return on invested capital and shareholder return.
Targets are set with regard to previous results and internal and external forecasts for the performance period and the strategic plan for the business.
They are designed to provide exceptional reward for exceptional performance, whilst allowing a reasonable expectation that reward at the lower end of the scale is attainable, subject to robust performance.
Operation Annual awards of performance shares, with vesting subject to: performance measured over three financial years continued employment subject to the provisions set out in the Policy on payments for loss of office section meeting shareholding requirements 400% of salary for the CEO and 300% of salary for the CFO Executive Directors are to retain their net after tax vested shares for a holding period of two years after vesting.
Dividend equivalents accrued during the performance period are payable in respect of the performance shares that vest.
On a change of control, the default position is that awards vest on a pro-rated basis, subject to an assessment of performance against targets at that time.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that the awards will not vest and will instead be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
Performance framework The performance measures are EPS, ROIC and relative TSR, weighted 40%:40%:20% respectively and assessed independently, suchthat a payout can be received under any one of the measures or, for TSR, in respect of one of the three comparator groups.
If each of the measures vests at threshold, the overall payout is 25% of the award.
If the measure with the lowest weighting vests atthreshold and the others do not vest at all, the overall payout is 2% of the award.
Payout in line with expectations is 50% of the maximum award.
Dividend equivalents are not taken into account in the above payout levels.
Maximum value The maximum grant in any year is up to 450% of base salary for the CEO and up to 375% of base salary for other Executive Directors notincluding dividend equivalents.
Other benefits: Maximum value has increased from 5% under the previous policy to 10% to reflect increases in the cost of providing the agreed benefits.
The level of benefits provided to Executive Directors has not changed.
Discretion in respect of AIP and LTIP payout levels: In determining the level of payout under the AIP and vesting under the LTIP, the Committee takes into account RELXs overall business performance and value created for shareholders over the period in review and other relevant factors.
It has discretion to adjust the vesting and payout levels subject always to the maximum individual limits if it believes this would result in a fairer outcome.
This discretion will only be used in exceptional circumstances and the Committee will explain in the next Remuneration Report the extent to which it has been exercised and the reasons for doing so.
Discretion to vary performance measures under the AIP and the LTIP: The Committee may vary the financial measures applying to a current annual incentive year and performance measures for LTIP awards already granted if a change in circumstances leads it to believe that the arrangement is no longer a fair measure of performance.
Any new measures will not be materially less, or more, challenging than the original ones.
Discretion on termination of employment under the AIP and the LTIP: The Committees discretion on termination of employment is described under the Policy on payments for loss of office section on pages 88 to 89.
Malus and claw-back under the AIP and the LTIP: Under the AIP and the LTIP, the Committee has discretion to apply malus and claw-back i if the payout including the AIP deferred shares element was calculated on the basis of materially misstated financial or other data, in which case it can withhold a payout and can seek to recover the difference in value between the incorrect payout and the amount that would have been paid had the correct data been used or ii if there has been serious misconduct on the part of the individual, in which case the Committee may withhold an AIP payout, lapse unvested LTIP awards and may require repayment of AIP and LTIP gains arising during a specified period.
Under the LTIP, the Committee also has discretion to apply malus and claw-back if a participant breaches post-termination restrictive covenants, in which case unvested awards would lapse and the Committee may require repayment of gains arising during the period beginning six months before termination and ending on the date the post-termination restrictive covenants are stated to expire.
Serious misconduct has been added as a trigger event under the AIP and the LTIP since the previous policy to increase the circumstances in which we can apply malus and claw-back.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 87 6.
Explanation of differences between the companys policy on Executive Directors remuneration and the policy for other employees: Incentives: A larger percentage of Executive Directors remuneration is performance related than that of other employees.
All managers participate in an annual incentive plan, butparticipation levels, measures and targets vary according to their role, seniority and local business priorities.
Approximately 100 senior executives currently participate in the LTIP and or the Bonus Investment Plan BIP and about 1,000 participate in the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
Grant levels under all plans vary according to role and seniority.
In considering the proposed new remuneration policy for Executive Directors, under which the Executive Directors will only participate in the AIP and the LTIP, the Committee considered the incentive plan participation for the wider senior management population.
Assuming shareholder approval is received for the new policy for Executive Directors, the Committee will decide on the most appropriate way to align the senior management populations incentive plan participation with that of the Executive Directors.
Other benefits: The range and level of retirement and other benefits provided to employees vary according to role, seniority and local market practice.
This is to ensure that we provide competitive packages which are appropriate to specific roles.
In reducing the maximum company contribution for Executive Directors under the defined contribution pension plan, the Committee took into account the contribution rates for Executive Directors and for the wider employee population.
Changes to pay components: The changes which have been made since the previous remuneration policy, together with the rationale for the changes, are described in the Committee Chairmans introduction on pages 81 to 83 and in notes 1 and 5 above.
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be paid in the context of the performance delivered and value added for shareholders.
The charts below are an illustration of how the CEOs and CFOs regular annual remuneration could vary under different performance scenarios.
The salary, benefits and pension levels are the same in all three scenarios in each chart.
Salary is based on 2017 salary.
Benefits is based on the most recent figure from the Single Total Figure table.
Pension, annual incentive and LTIP are all based on the policy tables award levels and percentages applied to the 2017 salary.
Annual incentive amounts include the one-third portion which is subject to compulsory deferral into RELX shares for three years, although the deferral portion is separately identified within the annual incentive amount in the charts.
The performance assumptions which have been used are as follows: Minimum means no AIP payout and no LTIP vesting.
In line with expectations means AIP payout at 150% of salary of which one-third is deferred into shares and LTIP vesting at half of the award.
Maximum means AIP payout at 200% of salary of which one-third is deferred into shares and LTIP vesting at 100% of the award.
No share price movement is assumed and any dividend equivalents payable in respect of the AIP deferred shares and the LTIP are notincluded.
CEO REMUNERATION 000 CFO REMUNERATION 000 9,664 LTIP LTIP LTIP AIP deferred AIP deferred shares AIP deferred shares AIP cash AIP cash AIP cash 55% Salary, benets, pension Salary, benets, pension Salary, benets, pension 6,395 4,915 42% 3,253 53% 25% 28% 40% 1,937 29% 32% 890 100% 30% 20% 100% 28% 18% Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum expectations expectations 88 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Approach to recruitment remuneration Executive Directors When agreeing the components of a remuneration package on the appointment of a new Executive Director, or an internal promotion to the Board, the Committee would seek to align the package with the remuneration policy stated in the policy table.
However, on an internal promotion to the Board, any existing contractual obligations and commitments may continue to be honoured, even if not consistent with the prevailing policy.
For example, if the individual is a member of the legacy defined benefit pension scheme, the Committee will consider the pension arrangements in the context of the package as a whole and may allow continued participation.
The Committees general principle on recruitment is to offer a competitive remuneration package to attract high-calibre candidates from a global talent pool.
Basic salary would be set at an appropriate level for the candidate, taking into account all relevant factors.
Asadata analytics and technology-driven business, with half of its revenue in the US, the company primarily competes for talent with US-based information and technology companies.
The various components and the companys approach are as follows: Standard package on recruitment To offer remuneration in line with the policy table including the limits, taking into account the principles set out above.
Compensation for forfeited entitlements The Committee may make awards and payments on hiring an external candidate to compensate him or her for entitlements forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
If such a decision is made, the Committee will attempt to reflect previous entitlements as closely as possible using a variety of tools, including cash and share based awards.
Malus and claw-back provisions will apply where appropriate.
If necessary to facilitate the grant of awards, the Committee may rely on the one person exemption from shareholder approval in the UK Listing Rules.
Relocation allowances and expenses The type and size of relocation allowances and expenses will be determined by the specific circumstances of the new recruit.
The standard package comprises annual base salary, retirement benefits, other benefits, AIP and LTIP.
Shareholding requirement The Executive Directors are subject to shareholding requirements.
These are a minimum of 400% of annual base salary for the CEO and 300% of annual base salary for other Executive Directors.
On joining or promotion to the Board, Executive Directors are given a period of time, typically up to five years, to build up to their requirement.
Policy on payments for loss of office In line with the companys policy, the service contracts of the existing Executive Directors contain 12-month notice periods.
The circumstances in which an Executive Directors employment is terminated will affect the Committees determination of any payment for loss of office, but it expects to apply the principles outlined in the table on the next page.
The Committee reserves the right to depart from these principles where appropriate in light of any taxation requirements to which the company or the Executive Director is subject including, without limitation, section 409A of the US Internal Revenue Code, or other legal obligations.
Treatment of legacy awards granted under multi-year incentive plans in which the Executive Directors no longer participate will be in accordance with those plans and the policy on payments for loss of office summarised in the Remuneration Policy Report in the 2013 Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 89 Policy on payments for loss of office continued 1 GENERAL INCENTIVES 2 Mutually agreed termination termination by the company other than for cause The Executive Director would be entitled to salary, benefits Annual incentive: Any unpaid annual incentive for the previous year andother contractual payments in the normal way up to the and a pro-rata payment in respect of the part of the financial year termination date and would be paid for any accrued but up to the termination date would generally be payable subject to untakenholiday.
the deferral provisions, with the amount being determined by reference to the original performance criteria.
However, the Salary: Payment of up to 12 months salary to reflect the notice Committee has discretion to decide otherwise depending on the period or payment in lieu of notice.
reason for termination and other specific circumstances.
The Other benefits: Where possible, benefits would be continued for company would not pay any annual incentive in respect of any part upto the duration of any unworked period of notice not exceeding of the financial year following the termination date e. g. for any the maximum stated in the policy table or the Executive Director unworked period of notice.
Any unvested AIP deferred shares would receive a cash payment not exceeding the cost to the would vest in full at the end of the deferral period.
The annual company of providing those benefits.
incentive claw-back provisions would apply.
Pension: Deferred or immediate pension in accordance with LTIP: The default position is that unvested LTIP awards would be scheme rules, with a credit in respect of, or payment for up to, the pro-rated to reflect time employed and would vest subject to full period of any unworked period of notice.
There is provision performance measured at the end of the relevant performance under the defined benefit pension scheme for members leaving period and subject to the Executive Director continuing to meet his company service by reason of permanent incapacity to make an shareholding requirement on a pro-rated basis.
The Committee application to the scheme trustee for early payment of their has discretion to allow unvested LTIP awards to vest earlier and to pension.
adjust the application of time pro-rating and performance conditions, subject to the plan rules.
Other: The company may pay compensation in respect of any statutory employment rights and may make other appropriate and customary payments.
The company would have due regard to principles of mitigation of loss.
Reductions would be applied to reflect any portion of the notice period that is worked and or spent on gardening leave.
On injury, disability, ill-health or death, the Committee reserves the right to vary the treatment outlined in this section.
Employee instigated resignation Annual incentive: The Executive Director would be entitled to receive The Executive Director would not receive any payments for loss of an annual incentive for a completed previous year subject to the office.
The Executive Director would be entitled to salary, benefits deferral provisions, but not a pro-rated annual incentive in respect and other contractual payments in the normal way up to the of a part year up to the termination date, unless the Committee termination date and would be paid for any accrued but untaken decides otherwise in the specific circumstances.
AIP deferred shares would vest in full at the end of the deferral period.
Annual incentive claw-back provisions would apply.
Pension: A deferred or immediate pension would be payable in accordance with the scheme rules.
LTIP: All outstanding LTIP awards would lapse on the date of notice.
Dismissal for cause Annual incentive: The Executive Director would not receive any The Executive Director would be entitled to salary, benefits and unpaid annual incentive.
Any unvested AIP deferred shares lapse other contractual payments in the normal way up to the on the date of dismissal.
termination date and would be paid for any accrued but untaken LTIP: All outstanding LTIP awards would lapse on the date of holiday, but would not receive any payments for loss of office.
In addition to what is set out in this section, on termination for any reason, Erik Engstrom will be entitled to payment of amounts held in his Retirement Account.
Before he joined the companys UK defined benefit scheme, he was not a member of any company pension scheme and RELX made annual contributions of 19.5% of base salary to a deferred compensation plan.
Contributions to this Retirement Account ceased when he became a member of the UK defined benefit arrangement.
In cases where the approved leaver treatment applies, the AIP and LTIP have a default position as well as giving the Committee discretion to adjust the default treatment within certain parameters.
The Committee would only expect to exercise such discretion where the Committee believes the personal circumstances of the Executive Director so require.
90 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Remuneration policy table Non-Executive Directors FEES Purpose and link to strategy To enable RELX to recruit Non-Executive Directors with the right balance of personal skills and experience to make a major contribution to the Boards and Committees of a global business which is listed in London, Amsterdam and New York.
Operation RELX Chairman: Receives an aggregate annual fee with no additional fees, e. g. Committee Chairman fees.
In respect of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc, the Committee determines, on the advice of the Senior Independent Director, the Chairmans fee.
In respect of RELX NV, the Committee makes a recommendation, on the advice of the Senior Independent Director, to the Board of RELX NV, which determines the Chairmans fee.
Other Non-Executive Directors: Receive an aggregate annual fee in respect of their memberships of the Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc.
Additional fees are payable to the Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairmen.
Fees are also payable for membership of Board Committees.
In future, attendance or international travel fees may be paid.
The Boards determine the level of fees, subject to applicable law.
Fees may be reviewed annually, although in practice they have changed on a less frequent basis.
When reviewing fees, consideration is given to the time commitment required, the complexity of the role and the calibre of the individual.
Periodically, comparative market data is also reviewed, the primary source for which is the practice of FTSE 30 companies, with reference also to the Euronext Amsterdam AEX index and US-listed companies.
Maximum value The aggregate annual fee limit for fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors in respect of their memberships of the Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc is approximately 2m.
The shareholders of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc have approved a maximum total annual fee limit of 500,000 and 1,000,000 respectively.
Additional fees for membership of or chairing Board Committees and assuming additional responsibilities such as acting as Senior Independent Director, are not subject to these maximum limits.
The shareholders of RELX NV have approved a maximum annual fee limit of 600,000 for all fees borne by RELX NV.
OTHER BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive benefits at appropriate cost.
Operation Other benefits for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed periodically and may include private medical cover, tax return preparation costs, secretarial benefits, car benefits, travel and related subsistence costs, including, where appropriate, the tax on such benefits.
Maximum value There is no prescribed maximum amount.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Non-Executive Consideration of shareholder views Directors Our practice is to consult shareholders and consider their views Following recruitment, a new Non-Executive Director will be when formulating, or changing, our policy.
The Committee has entitled to fees and other benefits in accordance with the recently consulted extensively with shareholders representing companys remuneration policy.
No additional remuneration is atotal of over 45% of the companys combined PLC and NV issued paid on recruitment.
However, any reasonable expenses incurred share capital and shareholder representative bodies in the UK, during the recruitment process will be reimbursed.
the Netherlands and the US on the proposed new remuneration policy.
We are grateful for the constructive feedback, which was Policy on payments for loss of office Non-Executive Directors taken into account in our final proposals.
In addition to unpaid accrued fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive one months fees for loss of office if their Previous remuneration policy and prior commitments appointment is terminated before the end of its term.
Any payments which are still to be made under arrangements made and awards granted under the previous remuneration policy Service contracts and letters of appointment which is included in the 2013 Annual Reports and Financial There are no further obligations in the Directors service contracts Statements and was approved by RELX PLC shareholders at the and letters of appointment which are not otherwise disclosed in 2014 Annual General Meeting will be made consistent with that this Report which could give rise to a remuneration payment or policy.
The provisions of the previous policy which relate to loss of office payment.
All Directors service contracts and letters arrangements and awards granted under the previous policy will of appointment are available for inspection at the companys therefore continue to apply until all payments in relation to those registered office.
The Executive Directors service contracts do arrangements and awards have been made.
not have a fixed expiry date.
The Committee also reserves the right to make any remuneration Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the or loss of office payments if the terms were agreed prior to the company approval of the previous policy or prior to an individual being When the Committee reviews the Executive Directors salaries appointed as a Director.
annually, it takes into account the companys guidelines for salaries for all employees for the forthcoming year.
We do not currently use any other remuneration comparison metrics when determining the quantum and structure of Directors pay.
We have not consulted with employees in connection with our policy on Directors remuneration.
