Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 91 Introduction to the Annual Remuneration Report from the Remuneration Committee Chairman In 2016 the company made further strategic and operational progress, and continued to evolve its business profile.
Our strategy remains consistent: to be a global professional information solutions provider, a company that delivers improved outcomes for professional and business customers across industries.
We are systematically migrating all of our businesses towards electronic decision tools, adding broader datasets, embedding more sophisticated analytics and leveraging more powerful technology, primarily through organic development.
Electronic and face-to-face, our preferred formats, now generate 87% of our total revenues.
2016 saw the company continue its consistent, positive financial performance, with underlying revenue and profit growth across all four business areas.
Underlying operating profit growth was 6%, and adjusted earnings per share EPS at constant currencies grew 8%.
These results carry forward the strong financial results of the company over the preceding five years, with consistent revenue, profit and earnings per share growth.
With more predictable revenues, a higher growth profile and improving returns the company continues to improve its quality of earnings.
This consistent strong financial performance is reflected in good achievements against targets under the multi-year incentive plans.
The 2016 annual incentive payments to the Executive Directors were just above target, resulting in payouts of around 70% of the maximum opportunity, which is a level that has been relatively consistent over the past six years and is in line with the consistent annual financial progress made by the business during this time.
This year we have significantly increased the retrospective disclosure of AIP targets by disclosing both the actual achievement for the financial measures, as well as the full scale of potential outcomes from threshold to maximum for each of these measures, and the percentage achievement for KPOs for the 2016 AIP see page 93.
The 2014-16 cycle of the LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan vested at 94% with return on invested capital ROIC and total shareholder return TSR targets having been fully achieved and EPS above the middle of the target range.
On average, over the three year period, adjusted EPS growth at constant currencies was 8.7% p. a.. ROIC and EPS performance in respect of the 2014-16 cycle of the BIP Bonus Investment Plan and the ESOS Executive Share Option Scheme resulted in respective vesting percentages of 98% and 100% ofthe awards granted.
These outcomes reflect the strong and consistent returns and earnings growth achieved by the business and how the challenging targets set by the Committee have been perceived by the market.
Over the 2014-16 period, ROIC increased from 12.1% to13.0% while in the six years since it was introduced as a metric into our multi-year incentives, ROIC has increased from 10.4% to 13.0%, demonstrating the Groups commitment to improved returns.
The share price over this period has increased by 60%.
In line with increases for the wider employee population, the Committee has approved 2017 salary increases for the Executive Directors of 2.5%.
The audited sections of the Report are clearly marked.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman, Remuneration Committee
