Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Remuneration Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report Earlier this year, we also consulted with shareholders The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes representing over 45% of our issued share capital and how the Group applies the principles of good governance shareholder representative bodies in the UK, the Netherlands relating to Directors remuneration.
This Report has been andthe US.
I will comment on the consultation in greater detail prepared by the Remuneration Committee of RELX Group plc below, but for now would like to express my gratitude for the the Committee in accordance with the UK Corporate feedback received, which has helped to shape the final design Governance Code, the UK Listing Rules, the Large and ofthe proposed policy.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the UK Regulations and the Outline of the proposed new remuneration policy for Executive Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code.
Directors Our objective with the new policy is to maintain the overall The Report was approved by the Boards of RELX PLC, RELX remuneration for Executive Directors broadly at current levels NV and RELX Group plc.
using the same combination of performance metrics for the incentive plans as used presently as these have supported consistent, predictable and strong financial performance by the Introduction from the Remuneration business and significant value creation for shareholders over the Committee Chairman last five years.
Our business strategy continues to be to grow the core business through organic investment and the build-out of The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders new products, with bolt-on acquisitions where we are the natural atthe 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM of RELX PLC for three owner, as well as portfolio rationalisation through selective years and can be found at www.
We are therefore retaining the same performance or on pages 79 to 85 of the 2013 Remuneration Report.
Asa result, metrics for the long-term incentive, as these align with, and an updated remuneration policy is being proposed to shareholders support, our strategy by focussing on sustained earnings growth, for approval at the 2017 RELX PLC AGM and the RELX NV AGM, return on invested capital and shareholder returns.
with the first awards under the new policy to be granted to existing Executive Directors in the first quarter of 2018.
The new policy, We propose simplifying the incentive framework for Executive which is proposed to apply for three years from the conclusion of Directors by reducing the number of plans in which they the 2017 RELX PLC AGM, is set out in the Remuneration Policy participate from four one annual and three multi-year incentive Report on pages 84 to 90. plans to two one annual and one multi-year incentive plan.
RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders will be invited to vote We propose to eliminate any future participation by Executive byway of a binding vote on the proposed new remuneration policy Directors in the BIP share matching plan Bonus Investment Plan at the 2017 AGMs of RELX PLC and RELX NV respectively.
and the ESOS Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the new policy, they will participate only in the AIP Annual Incentive Plan The implementation of the current policy during 2016 is described and the LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
Overall incentive on pages 92 to 104 the Annual Remuneration Report.
opportunity will be broadly maintained at current policy levels by RELX PLC shareholders will be invited to vote by way of a adding a deferred share element to the AIP and increasing the non-binding advisory vote on the 2016 Annual Remuneration potential award under the LTIP to offset the elimination of their Report at the RELX PLC AGM.
future participation in the other two multi-year incentive plans.
Our Report therefore has two parts, the first directly below We will maintain the target opportunity for the annual incentive dealing with the new policy and the second starting on page 91, which is paid in cash at the current level 100% of salary and will describing the implementation of the existing policy in 2016. reduce the maximum possible cash annual incentive payable to Executive Directors from 150% of salary under the current policy to 133% of salary under the new policy.
We will add a deferred Proposed new remuneration policy share element to the AIP of 50% of salary at target and 67% of A key area of focus for the Committee during 2016 was the review salary at maximum.
This means that the total AIP opportunity of the remuneration policy for Directors.
cash plus deferred shares will be 150% of salary at target and 200% at maximum.
The deferred share element will equal In reviewing the policy, the Committee took into account its desire one-third of the total of any earned incentive under the AIP and will to retain and attract top executive talent, promote the continued be paid in RELX shares, which will not be released for three years.
strong strategic and financial performance of the business and We intend to continue to use profit after tax, revenue, cash flow maintain executive alignment with long-term shareholder conversion and individual Key Performance Objectives KPOs, interests.
The Committee considered feedback received from which are chosen to align with the companys strategy and create shareholders since the adoption of the current policy in 2014 and aplatform for sustainable future performance, as the AIP trends in market practice, and was cognisant of the global nature performance measures.
We will lower the caps on the payout of the RELX business.
As a data analytics and technology-driven amounts for each individual financial performance element to business with half of its revenue being derived from the US 150% of target, and for the KPO element to 100% of target.
market, the Group primarily competes for talent with US-based information and technology companies.
The Committee also AIP performance targets financial and KPOs will be set by the considered the pay practices of the FTSE 30, reflective of the Committee following the same robust process which has been companys position around the middle of this group.
used in recent years and will be designed to be challenging but achievable.
Financial targets are set by reference to the previous years performance and internal and external forecasts for the
