Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 80 Governance Directors remuneration report I am pleased to have taken over as Chair of this committee as we continue to further develop senior management talent, performance management processes and executive director remuneration policies and governance.
Kath Durrant, Chair of the Remuneration committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to During the year, the committee approved Remuneration Committee present the Directors remuneration report executive directors base salaries for roleand composition for 2016.
2016, which rose in line with increases The Remuneration Committee is typical for UK staff: no bonus was The report continues to comply with the responsible for deciding the Companys payable to executive directors in 2016, requirements for reporting on directors framework of executive director the thresholds for payment not having pay introduced in October 2013 and is remuneration and setting remuneration been met.
The committee approved a split into the following three sections: packages for each of the executive new remuneration package for Will Lee in directors.
The committees policy is to 1.
A statement from the Chair of the respect of his appointment to the Board motivate and retain executive directors Remuneration Committee: as Group Sales and Marketing Director.
by rewarding them with competitive The committee also reviewed and salary, benefit packages and incentives.
The remuneration policy table pages 82 and 83 which was approved at the approved the Chairman and Chief These are linked to the overall performance of the Group and, in turn, AGM on 16th October 2014 for a threeExecutive's expenses.
tothe interests of the shareholders.
year period: and As indicated in last year's report, the 3.
An annual report on remuneration, committee commenced a review of The committee reviews annually the executive directors remuneration in the setting out information on directors executive remuneration and this year, worked with Kepler, who advised on context of the Groups performance remuneration paid during the year.
remuneration governance and conducted during the year.
Remuneration Committee a benchmarking of remuneration for The committee also reviews the activities during the year the senior leadership group, including remuneration structure and packages executive directors.
The committee During 2016 Sir David Grant stepped for the next level of senior leaders across have made the benchmarking available down from the role of Remuneration the business to ensure appropriate to management within the Company, Committee Chair, and I was pleased competitiveness, equity and progression with guidelines for its ongoing use.
2016 was a more for those identified as potential successors The committee has also reviewed the challenging year for the Company when to the Board and senior executive team.
quality of performance management compared to the exceptional performance processes with the Company and made All the members of the committee are of 2015, where the Company benefited recommendations on strengthening that non-executive directors, comprising Kath from large orders from the Far East.
Durrant Chair, Sir David Grant, Carol Nevertheless, underlying growth of 5.6% Chesney and John Jeans.
The terms in core businesses demonstrates the of reference of the committee are resilience of Renishaw, and should be published on the Companys website.
Executive directors only attend meetings The Remuneration Committees approach of the committee by invitation for continues to be to align executive parts of the agenda as appropriate.
director remuneration with the Groups Independent advisors are used performance, using clear and simple as required.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 81 In relation to setting remuneration for the next financial year, the committee has taken into account the cyclical nature of the market, the performance of the Company over time, the present uncertain economic environment and the remuneration conditions within the Board and the overseas markets in which we operate.
With respect to executive director bonus targets, the committee has agreed with the Company the long-term strategic profitable growth ambitions for Renishaw, which in turn underpin bonus arrangements.
In addition to the usual measure of profit before tax, the committee has decided to introduce an additional measure related to prudent management of cash.
Renishaws executive directors do not participate in a long-term incentive plan LTIP.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that this is unusual compared with many other companies, and we therefore question annually whether Renishaws performance would be enhanced through the introduction of such a scheme.
At present there are no proposals to introduce such a scheme.
The committee considers it essential that the Group can assure its ability to attract and retain talent, in different markets and in both established and emerging businesses.
As a result, the committee will carefully consider the potential changes to the remuneration policy of the Company including, but not confined to long-term incentive proposals in readiness for policy reapproval in October 2017, to ensure it remains able to attract and retain talent of the right calibre over the coming years.
Kath Durrant Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27th July 2016 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 82 Governance Directors remuneration report continued REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys remuneration policy for executive and non-executive directors was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 16th October 2014 for a three-year period.
No change will be proposed at the AGM on 13th October 2016.
Key extracts of the policy are provided below for information purposes only.
The full policy can be found on our investor relations website downloads and video section within the 2014 Directors remuneration report, contained in the 2014 Annual report.
Executive directors policy table Set out below is a table describing each component of the remuneration package applicable to the executive directors.
The page reference change below under the maximum column was updated in the table for information only in order to be factually correct, since the table has been reproduced from the 2014 Annual report as explained above.
Element of Purpose and relevance Performance remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum measures Base salary To provide a competitive fixed Renishaw aims to pay the base rate 110% of median salaries To reflect the directors role, salary to motivate and retain salary at least at the current median in a comparator group as performance and experience.
executive directors of the market rate or above, as compared to decided by the committee.
required quality to meet the the equivalent job position level in the Renishaw has historically Groups objectives.
relevant industrial sector s applicable to paid base salaries that Renishaw, as defined in the appropriate are higher than median, benchmarking pay surveys, statistics reflecting the lack of an and peer comparisons such peer LTIP see Statement on selection to include factors such as size page 81. and location.
The committee retains Base salary is reviewed annually the discretion to make taking into account the award for the adjustments at the annual UK workforce.
review to take into account matters affecting an individual director such as changes in responsibility and anomalies discovered during benchmarking.
Benefits To provide marketBenefits provided on an ongoing basis Excluding accommodation Not applicable.
competitive benefits to include the following principal benefits: and relocation costs, not to motivate and retain executive exceed 50k p a. a car or car allowance: directors of the required quality to meet the Groups private medical insurance: objectives and to support life assurance: them to give maximum attention to their role.
long-term disability cover: and home telephone costs.
If, on the recruitment of a new executive director, relocation is required to the directors place of work, relocation support which is regarded by the committee to be necessary to provide appropriate support to the director will be provided to cover items such as transaction and legal fees, removals and temporary accommodation and subsistence costs.
Bonus To incentivise and The committee sets group performance 100% of salary.
Based on group reward execution of the targets, including a baseline below performance, primarily Groups objectives.
which no bonus is earned, with a bonus financial, but the committee payable from that point, increasing on may introduce non-financial a straight-line basis to a target at which metrics or make adjustments 75% of salary would be earned and to reflect appropriate a cap at which a maximum 100% of performance or competitive salary would be earned.
factors, provided that the bonus will always be subject Part or all of any bonus paid may be to achievement of the subject to repayment in the case of baseline financial targets and any financial misstatement, errors in such non-financial metrics calculation or gross misconduct.
shall not form more than 25% of the bonus opportunity.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 83 Executive directors policy table continued Element of Purpose and relevance Performance remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum measures Pension To provide a competitive Each of Allen Roberts, Ben Taylor and The maximum contribution Not applicable.
pension as appropriate Geoff McFarland receive an additional to the defined contribution to motivate and retain payment of 15% of base salary, being scheme, or, where executive directors of the the amount that would otherwise be applicable, additional required quality to meet the contributed to a pension scheme on salary payment in lieu of Groups objectives.
contributions will be 15% of base salary.
For any new executive director, annual contributions based on a percentage of base salary will be made to the Companys defined contribution scheme or additional salary may be paid in lieu, as agreed by the committee.
Geoff McFarland is a deferred member of the Companys defined benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007.
Non-executive directors policy table The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors and consists of a fee only.
There is no entitlement to any benefits, bonus, incentive plans or pension.
Set out below is a table showing the fees for the non-executive directors of the Company: Element of Purpose and relevance Performance remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum measures Fee To provide a competitive The non-executive directors are The maximum fees Not applicable.
fee to motivate and retain paid the same fee, irrespective of payable will be set by the non-executive directors of the membership of or acting as a Chair of Companys Articles of required quality to meet the a committee.
Association, currently an Groups objectives.
aggregate of 300,000 The fees are reviewed annually with per annum.
reference to fees payable to nonexecutive directors of companies of a similar size and complexity.
Reasonable expenses incurred in undertaking duties as a director are reimbursed.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 84 Governance Directors remuneration report continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT This section of the report sets out the remuneration of the directors in the year ended 30th June 2016.
Benefits Private medical cover applies to all executive directors and home telephone costs, Car insurance on personal cars, M4 bridge toll fees, allowance US tax return advice is provided to certain directors 000 000 Sir David McMurtry n a 2 D J Deer 18 2 B R Taylor 18 4 A C G Roberts 18 1 G McFarland 18 0 Bonus Total pension entitlements Payments to past directors For the year in question, the bonus G McFarland is a member of the No payments were made to past directors was determined by group performance Companys closed defined benefit during the year.
targets for the year, based on an adjusted scheme.
At 30th June 2016, the value of Loss of office payments profit before tax set at levels above the the defined benefit pension entitlement previous years profit before tax and with was 28,641 per annum.
The normal There was no termination of employment a threshold below which no bonus is retirement age for G McFarland is 65. of directors during the year.
A target profit before tax set for On death, pension benefits would pass the year in question enabled 75% of salary to dependants.
A further bonus Current year pension scheme could be earned based on performance contributions payable by the Company subject to a maximum 100% of salary.
No other performance measures were set.
The value of G McFarlands defined contribution scheme at 30th June 2016 was 425,277.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 85 1,000 Renishaw FTSE mid 250 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 There were no share-based payments UK employees have been chosen as a Performance graph made or share schemes in place during comparator group in order to avoid the The graph above shows the Companys the year.
impact of exchange rate movements over total shareholder return TSR the year.
UK employees make up 65% of performance, compared with the FTSE Chief Executive the total number of group employees.
mid 250 index, which the directors believe totalremuneration is the most appropriate broad index Relative importance of spend The table below sets out information for comparison.
on pay relating to Sir David McMurtry, who was The share price and the FTSE mid 250 the Chief Executive for each of the years The following table sets out the total index have been rebased to 100 at in question: amount spent in the current financial year 1stJuly 2009. and the previous year on remuneration Annual Long-term bonus incentive to all group employees and on dividends Executive directors serving payout vesting rates to shareholders: Single figure against against as non-executive directors of of total maximum maximum 2016 2015 change othercompanies remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 000 % Year 000 % % During the year none of the executive Employee 2016 668 0% n a directors served as a non-executive remuneration 183,769 173,744 6% 2015 1,298 100% n a director of any other company in respect Shareholder of which any remuneration was received.
2014 632 0% n a dividends paid 33,847 30,841 10% 2013 663 10% n a Statement of directors Except as shown above, no other 2012 969 69% n a shareholding and distributions have been made to 2011 1,066 100% n a shareholders or other payments or uses shareinterests of profit or cash flow which impact on the None of the directors are required to own Percentage change in understanding of the relative importance shares in the Company.
The interests of remuneration of the of spend on pay.
the directors who have served during ChiefExecutive the year in shares including connected Statement of implementation persons are: The following table sets out a ofremuneration policy in the comparison of the percentage change Number of ordinary next year in the Chief Executives remuneration shares of 20p each to the percentage change in average The executive directors salaries will be Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 remuneration of UK employees from 2015 increased by 2.2% for the 2017 financial D J Deer 12,233,040 year, which is in line with the UK workforce to 2016.
The bonus scheme targets UK A G Roberts 5,165 Chief employees have been set based on the policy as set 2016 2015 Executive average G McFarland 2,000 out in the policy table.
000 000 % change % change C T Chesney 500 Salary 666 648 2.7% 4.0% K L Durrant Benefits 2 2 0% -2% Sir David Grant Annual D J Jeans bonus 0 648 -100% -51% Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 86 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Consideration by directors Statement of voting at of matters relating to general meeting  At the annual general meeting held on During the year, the Remuneration 15th October 2015, votes cast in respect Committee considered the amount of the Directors remuneration report were of the executive directors salary and as follows: the framework for the annual bonus.
Votes % Total Votes The members of the Remuneration Resolution Votes for % for against against votes cast withheld Committee for this purpose were: Approval of remuneration Sir David Grant Chair until 10th report 58,907,567 97.54% 1,487,278 2.46% 60,394,845 760,571 May 2016 C T Chesney At the annual general meeting on 16th October 2014, votes cast by proxy in D J Jeans respect of theremuneration policy were as follows: K L Durrant Chair from 11th May 2016 Votes % Total Votes Resolution Votes for % for against against votes cast withheld Kepler a brand name and the executive remuneration advisory division of Mercer Approval of Limited assisted the committee in remuneration reviewing and benchmarking the director policy 52,998,077 86.42% 8,323,776 13.57% 61,321,853 623,285 and senior management remuneration As the Company deems that a significant The report was approved by the Board arrangements.
Total fees paid to of directors and has been signed on its percentage of votes against as being Kepler during the year were 33,000. behalf by: more than 20%, as a result of which the The committee is of the opinion that Company would be required to provide the advice received was objective and in this report any reasons known to it independent.
Kepler were appointed by for such a vote and any actions taken, the committee as they were known to no commentary is necessary in respect members of the committee.
They have Kath Durrant of the voting in respect of either of the not advised the Company on any other Chair of the Remuneration Committee above resolutions.
However, during the year, Mercer 27th July 2016 Limiteds actuarial advisory division provided advice to the trustees of the Companys UK defined benefit pension scheme and in relation to the defined contribution scheme.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
