Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 Dear Shareholder underlying operating profit of 15%, our continued market I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration leadership in audience and encouraging growth in Other Report for Rightmove the Company together with revenue, albeit not at the maximum opportunity.
We were its subsidiary companies the Group for the year ended also delighted that the employee engagement target was 31December 2016. met in full.
Overall, performance for the year significantly outperformed the business plan and the Committee was The report is divided into two sections, the Remuneration therefore satisfied that it was appropriate to pay 92% of Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As required by the remuneration regulations, you will be asked to vote separately on these two reports at our AGM Turning to the Groups longer term performance, which on 9 May 2017.
The Remuneration Policy, which has been continues to reflect the successful implementation of its subject to review this year by the Remuneration Committee growth strategy over the last three financial years, the 2014 the Committee and consultation with our shareholders, is Performance Share Plan awards measuring performance set out on pages 50 to 59.
This year we have introduced a from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 will vest in full section called Remuneration at a glance, to provide our in March 2017 as a result of delivering underlying basic 2 shareholders with a summary of the Companys EPS growth of 76% and TSR growth of 53% over the performance for 2016 and proposed remuneration performance period, which exceeded the respective arrangements for 2017. growth targets set of 70% and FTSE 250 Index 25% over the three-year period.
The Committee tested the Performance and reward performance conditions, which were set at the beginning The Committee considers that the remuneration of the of the performance period, and determined that the Group executive directors appropriately and fairly reflects the had outperformed the maximum targets.
It was therefore performance of the Group.
As described in the Strategic satisfied that the awards should vest in full Report, our 2016 results show another year of strong 1 growth in organic revenue and underlying operating profit.
Remuneration policy 1 The increase in underlying operating profit achieved In 2016, the Committee conducted a full review of the this year is particularly strong in light of uncertainties executive Remuneration Policy, which was last approved influencing the general market place and once again by shareholders in 2014. demonstrates the strength of the Rightmove business The review indicated that the overall policy, which model and brand and the effectiveness of our provides below market fixed pay base salary, pension management team.
and benefits and above market variable pay opportunity In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee short and long-term incentives for outstanding has reviewed achievement against the bonus plan objectives performance, remains fit for purpose in this dynamic, for 2016 and recommended an annual bonus payment of growth-orientated business.
This echoes the strong growth in revenue and resulted in levels of fixed pay falling further below market 1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives with no related adjustment for tax.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 47 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued levels than the Committee felt was appropriate and, as a The Committees objective is to retain a remuneration consequence, longer-term incentives which are broadly in framework that rewards and incentivises our management line with the market as a percentage of salary, have also team to deliver Rightmoves longer term strategy with a fallen below market norms.
The Committee therefore clear emphasis on performance-related pay to reflect the considers that an adjustment to levels of fixed pay is culture of the Group.
Following the proposed changes, appropriate to ensure that the current policy continues to the Remuneration Policy will continue to provide below market effectively reward and incentivise our executive directors levels of fixed pay with above market levels of variable pay and senior management team to deliver sustainable opportunity, subject to the achievement of challenging performance in a growth-orientated business.
performance measures linked to the Group KPIs.
Variable pay is geared toward long-term sustainable performance, with a high The Committee consulted the Companys major level of annual bonus deferral into shares, long-term incentive shareholders, together holding over 50% of Rightmove awards and higher share ownership guidelines.
shares, for their views on the new policy, including salary proposals for 2017.
Our shareholders were overwhelmingly We are committed to maintaining an open and transparent supportive of the proposed changes, subject to some useful dialogue with shareholders.
We have valued the constructive feedback, which has been incorporated into the engagement with, and support of, shareholders and we proposed policy.
The key elements of the Remuneration remain focused on disclosing clearly how much our Policy are summarised in Remuneration at a glance on page executive directors earn and how this is linked closely 49 and detailed in the Remuneration Policy Report on pages to performance.
Chief Executive Officer retirement Details of the changes to the salaries of the executive On 23 February 2017, Nick McKittrick notified the Board directors are set out on page 61.
In summary, increases of of his intention to retire as a director and Chief Executive 3% in excess of the average of Rightmoves employees were Officer following the AGM on 9 May 2017.
A summary of the awarded to the CEO and COO and an increase of 11.8% remuneration arrangements in relation to his retirement are above that of the workforce was awarded to the Finance set out on page 74.
These increases were introduced in January 2017 and reflect the increase in size and complexity of each role and, in the case of the Finance Director, that on appointment her salary was set significantly below the Committees assessment of an appropriate rate for the role and the performance and capability that she has demonstrated as Peter Williams she has gained experience in the role.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The proposed Remuneration Policy will also incorporate some minor modifications to bring it in line with current market and best practice and is expected to operate for three-years from shareholder approval in May 2017.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 2 Underlying basic EPS Underlying basic EPS Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return 150 150 200 200 121.4 121.4 48% 48% 120 120 142.8 142.8 160 160 100.3 100.3 23% 23% 81.0 81.0 90 90 120 120 19% 19% 60 60 80 80 30 30 40 40 0 0 0 0 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 Dec 13 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 16 Year Year Rightmove Rightmove 75% of 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards vest on 75% of 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards vest on 25% of 2014 Performance Share Plan awards vest 25% of 2014 Performance Share Plan awards vest FTSE 250 FTSE 250 in line with upper quartile relative TSR performance.
in line with upper quartile relative TSR performance.
achievement of outstanding EPS growth.
Annual EPS growth of 18% achievement of outstanding EPS growth.
Annual EPS growth of 18% FTSE 350 FTSE 350 2 2 Underlying basic EPS Underlying basic EPS Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return Governance | Remuneration at a glance 150 150 200 200 121.4 121.4 48% 48% 142.8 142.8 120 120 160 160 100.3 100.3 23% 23% 81.0 81.0 90 90 120 120 19% 19% 60 60 80 80 2016 Financial Performance 30 30 40 40 1 Revenue Underlying operating profit before tax Returns to shareholders 0 0 0 0 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 Dec 13 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 16 Year Year Rightmove Rightmove % % 75% of 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards vest on 75% of 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards vest on FTSE 250 FTSE 250 25% of 2014 Performance Share Plan awards vest 25% of 2014 Performance Share Plan awards vest 15 15 131.3m achievement of outstanding three-year EPS growth of 76% achievement of outstanding three-year EPS growth of 76% FTSE 350 FTSE 350 in line with upper quartile relative TSR performance.
Long-term incentive plan outcome against maximum targets: 100% 2 2 Underlying basic EPS Underlying basic EPS Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return 150 150 200 200 Rightmove Rightmove 121.4 121.4 FTSE 250 FTSE 250 53% 53% 142.8 142.8 120 120 160 160 FTSE 350 FTSE 350 100.3 100.3 24% 24% 81.0 81.0 90 90 120 120 20% 20% 60 60 80 80 30 30 40 40 0 0 0 0 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 Dec 13 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 16 Year Year This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016 of 100 invested in This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016 of 100 invested in 75% of 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards vest on 75% of 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards vest on Rightmove on 31 December 2013 compared with the value of 100 Rightmove on 31 December 2013 compared with the value of 100 achievement of outstanding three-year EPS growth of 76%.
achievement of outstanding three-year EPS growth of 76%.
invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Index.
25% of 2014 Performance Share Plan awards vest in line with upper quartile 25% of 2014 Performance Share Plan awards vest in line with upper quartile relative TSR performance.
Annual bonus plan outcome against maximum targets: 92% 3 Underlying operating Growth in absolute website Growth in Other revenue Employee survey respondents 1 profit before tax visits relative to our nearest who think Rightmove is a great competitor place to work Target: Target: Target: Target: % % % 163.8m 50 30 growth 95 higher growth in absolute visits Actual: Actual: Actual: than our nearest competitor % % Actual: 166.2m 23 growth 95 Growth in absolute visits 17.75 times higher than our nearest competitor Pay and performance for 2016 Shareholder alignment Nick Peter Robyn Shareholding Guidelines: McKittrick Brooks-Johnson Perriss 200% of salary for all executive directors from 2017 Salary 424,320 355,368 281,112 Benefits & Pension 1,973 17,822 14,473 Proportion of variable awards received in shares: Cash Bonus 195,187 163,469 129,312 85% of performance-related pay is awarded in Rightmove shares Deferred Shares 292,781 245,204 193,967 Performance Shares 1,212,662 1,015,601 803,392 Shares required to be retained on vesting until guidelines met: Total remuneration 2,126,923 1,797,465 1,422,256 50% of vested Deferred and Performance shares Remuneration Policy 2017 2020 Policy element Proposed change from 2014 policy Fixed pay below comparative market median and variable incentive opportunity above median No change Base salaries executive directors receive inflationary adjustments to salaries in line with Increases in base salary capped at 3% above wider 4 all employees workforce increases Pension contributions up to 6% of base salary No change Annual bonus maximum 125% of salary, with 40% cash and 60% deferred into Company No change shares for two years Performance Share Plan awards granted at 200% of salary.
No post-vesting holding period No change.
The Committee will have discretion to introduce post-vesting holding periods for new executive directors Clawback applies to deferred annual bonus awards and Performance Share Plan awards No change 1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
4 A one-off increase in the Finance Directors salary of 13.8% is proposed in 2017 to 2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives with no address her historically low starting salary level and recognise the capability she has related adjustment for tax.
demonstrated as she has gained experience in that role.
3 Other revenue is all revenue excluding Agency and New Homes.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 49 pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share Source: Rightmove Source: Rightmove Source: Rightmove Source: Rightmove Source: XXXX Source: XXXX pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share Value Value pence per ordinary share pence per ordinary share Source: Thomson Reuters Source: Thomson Reuters Source: Thomson Reuters Source: Thomson Reuters Source: Rightmove Source: Rightmove Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors should have below market levels of Remuneration Policy Report unaudited base salary, minimal benefits which are made available on the same basis to all Rightmove employees, but Introduction with above market levels of variable pay potential.
This report sets out the Companys policy on directors This arrangement is designed to align the interests of the remuneration for the forthcoming year and, for subsequent executive directors with the interests of shareholders and years, as well as information on remuneration paid to to reflect the dynamic, performance driven culture of the directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The Company will generally review market levels of The report has been prepared in accordance with the remuneration for executive directors with the assistance Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized of external, independent remuneration consultants and Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports consult shareholders on remuneration policy at least every Amendment Regulations 2013 together the Act and three years.
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Executive director remuneration should normally be In accordance with the Act this report comprises a Policy reviewed against the market every three years, further Report and an Annual Report on Remuneration.
The changes to remuneration for the current executives should Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in 2014 be made infrequently.
Annual pay reviews for executive and, in compliance with the Act, a revised Policy Report will directors in intervening years should, in most instances, be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
be directly linked to the policies applied to all employees, In practice, however, the Remuneration Committee specifically with regard to cost of living rises in base salary the Committee has applied some elements of the policy and changes in benefits.
detailed below from the beginning of 2017 and expects Executive directors should be principally rewarded for to apply the new policy throughout the three-year period the overall success of the business for which they have from and subject to shareholder approval on 9 May 2017. collective responsibility.
The Group has key short-term and The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an medium to long-term goals and executive directors should advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
The parts of the report be incentivised against these goals.
which have been audited have been highlighted.
Executive directors should not be able to gain significantly from short-term successes, which subsequently prove Remuneration Policy Report the Policy Report not to be consistent with growing the overall value of the This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out business.
Hence a majority of any bonus payable in relation the Remuneration Policy for the Company and has been to short-term strategic goals is required to be taken in the prepared in accordance with the Act.
form of shares in the Company which are deferred for a The policy has been developed after taking into account further two years after the bonus target has been achieved.
Rightmoves pay philosophy that our executives should The following table provides an overview of the Committees be rewarded with demonstrably lower than market base Remuneration Policy, which has been designed to reflect the salaries and benefits and higher than market equity principles described above: rewards contingent upon the achievement of challenging performance targets in accordance with the best practice principles set out in the Code and the views of our major shareholders.
The key principles of the Committees policy are unchanged and are as follows: Remuneration arrangements should be simple to explain, understand and administer.
Remuneration arrangements should be designed to provide executive directors with the opportunity to receive a share in the future growth and development of the Group which is regarded as fair by both other employees and shareholders.
This approach should allow the Company to attract and retain the dynamic, self-motivated individuals who are critical to the success of the business.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration Policy Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria Directors current salaries are The Committee considers both Salary To provide a Base salaries are normally reviewed base salary annually.
The timing of any change set out on page 61. individual and Group performance in a broad context when which will attract is at the Committees discretion These salary levels will be and retain high and will usually be effective from determining base salary increases.
eligible for increases during the calibre 1January.
period that the Remuneration executives to When considering the executives Policy operates from the execute the eligibility for a salary increase, the effective date.
Groups Committee considers the following During this time, salaries may business points: be increased each year in strategy.
size and responsibilities of the percentage of salary terms in role: line with those of the wider individual and Group performance: workforce and will be capped at increases awarded to the wider the average workforce workforce: and increase plus 3%, subject to broader economic and inflationary the Committees consideration conditions.
of the overall salary budget, Executive directors remuneration individual and Group is benchmarked against external performance and factors in market data periodically generally the wider economy including every three years.
comparators are selected for Increases beyond those linked comparison, which include other to the workforce in percentage companies of a similar size and of salary terms will only be complexity.
The Committee awarded where there is a considers benchmark data, change of incumbent, in alongside a broad review of the responsibility, experience or individuals skills and experience, a significant increase in the performance and internal scale of the role and or size, relativities.
value and or complexity of the Group.
Benefits To provide The executive directors are The value of benefits may vary Not applicable simple, costenrolled in the Groups private from year to year depending on effective, medical insurance scheme and the cost to the Company from employee receive life assurance cover third party providers.
benefits which equal to four times base salary.
are the same as Additionally, all executive directors those offered are members of the Groups to the wider medical cash plan.
Executive directors will be entitled to receive new benefits on the same terms as those introduced for the whole workforce.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 51 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria Pension To provide The Group operates a stakeholder 6% of base salary Not applicable a basic, pension plan for employees under cost-effective, which the employer contributes long-term 6% of base salary subject to the retirement employee contributing a minimum benefit.
The Company does not contribute to any personal pension arrangements.
The Company may introduce a cash alternative to a pension contribution where this would be more tax efficient for the individual.
Whilst executives are not obliged to join, the Company operates a pension salary exchange arrangement whereby executives can exchange part of their salary for Company paid pension contributions.
Where executives exchange salary and this reduces the Companys National Insurance Contributions the Company credits the full saving to the executives pension.
Annual bonus To incentivise The annual bonus comprises a Maximum % salary : The bonus is determined by and including and recognise cash award 40% of any bonus 125% of base salary based on performance against Deferred execution of the earned and a DSP award 60% a range of key performance Share Bonus business of any bonus earned.
A greater indicators which will be selected Plan DSP strategy on an proportion of the annual bonus and weighted to support delivery annual basis.
may be deferred in future years of the business strategy.
Rewards the The primary bonus metric will be achievement of profit-based e. g. underlying Deferred shares will vest after two operating profit before tax with annual financial years and be potentially forfeitable and operational targets set in relation to a carefully during that period.
considered business plan and objectives.
Payments under the annual bonus requiring significant outplan may be subject to clawback performance of that plan to in the event of a material trigger maximum payments.
misstatement of the Groups A minority of bonus will also be financial results or misconduct.
earned based on pre-set targets drawn from the Groups other key performance indicators relating to underlying drivers of long-term revenue growth.
Details of the performance measures used for the current year and the targets set for the year under review and performance against them is provided on pages 61 to 62 and 67 to 68.
25% of the awards vest for achieving the threshold performance target.
Bonus is earned on a linear basis from threshold to maximum performance levels.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria Performance To incentivise The PSP was established in 2011 Maximum % salary : Awards vest based on three-year Share Plan and reward and permits annual awards of nil 200% of base salary performance against challenging PSP executives cost options, contingent shares financial targets for EPS and for the and forfeitable shares which relative TSR performance.
achievement of vest after three years subject Financial targets will determine superior returns to continued service and the vesting in relation to at least half to shareholders achievement of challenging of an award.
25% of the awards vest for year period, and The Committee has discretion to achieving the threshold to retain key introduce a two-year post-vesting performance target.
Awards vest individuals holding period for future executive on a linear basis from threshold to and align appointments to the Board.
interests with A dividend equivalent provision The performance period for shareholders.
operates enabling dividends to be financial targets and relative paid in cash or shares on shares TSR targets is three financial years, at the time of vesting.
starting with the year in which the PSP awards may be subject to award is granted.
clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or misconduct.
Participation limits are set by None All-employee Provides all Executive directors are entitled to Sharesave employees with participate on the same terms as HMRC from time to time.
Plan the opportunity all other employees in the Groups to become Sharesave Plan, which has standard terms.
owners in the Company on similar terms.
Share To provide all Executive directors are entitled to Participation in the SIP is based None Incentive Plan employees the participate in the SIP on the same on HMRC rules.
Share awards SIP opportunity to terms as all other employees.
are discretionary and made own shares in The SIP has standard terms within the SIP rules.
the Company on and currently only free shares equal terms.
However, executive directors routinely forfeit their entitlement to any free share awards.
The Committee may award free shares to employees, subject to the continued strong Group performance.
Share awards will typically be made annually in January and will be modest in value, historically 50 shares per employee, although this will differ with the market value of the shares.
Share To provide Executive directors are required Shareholding guideline: Not applicable ownership alignment to retain at least half of any share 200% of base salary for guidelines between the awards vesting or exercised after all executive directors.
executives and selling sufficient shares to meet shareholders.
the exercise price and to pay any tax liabilities due until they have met the shareholding guideline.
The Committee will regularly monitor progress towards the guideline.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 53 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria NonTo provide a The fees for non-executive Fees for the Chairman and None executive competitive fee directors including the Company non-executive directors were directors which will attract Chairman are reviewed periodically last reviewed in 2015 and are and retain high generally every three years.
set out on page 66. calibre Fee increases may take place The Committee will consider individuals and the Chairmans fee, whilst the if fee levels are considered reflects their to have become out of line non-executive directors fee is relevant skills considered by the wider Board, with the responsibilities and and experience.
time commitments of excluding the non-executives.
Fee levels for each role are determined after considering the Flexibility is retained to responsibility of the role, the skills increase the above fee levels and knowledge required and the in the event that it is necessary expected time commitments.
to recruit a new Chairman or non-executive director of Periodic benchmarking against an appropriate calibre in relevant market comparators, future years.
reflecting the size and complexity of the role, is used to provide context when setting fee levels.
In exceptional circumstances, where the normal time commitment has been substantially exceeded, an additional fee may be paid at the Boards discretion.
Business To reimburse Directors may claim reasonable Expenses vary from year to Not applicable.
expenses directors for business expenses within the year according to each reasonable terms of the Groups expenses directors responsibilities, business policy and be reimbursed on the business activity and location.
same basis as all employees.
The Group may reimburse business expenses which are in future classified as taxable benefits by HMRC.
Discretions maintained by the Committee in how to deal with a change of control e. g. the timing of operating the incentive plans testing performance targets or restructuring of the Group: The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, PSP, determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan Sharesave Plan and SIP according to their respective rules purposes based on the rules of each plan and the and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules appropriate treatment chosen including the timing of the where relevant.
delivery of shares: adjustments if any required in certain circumstances The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and practice, in a number of regards to the operation and special dividends : and administration of these plans.
These discretions include, but the annual review of performance measures, targets and are not limited to, the following: weightings for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year the selection of participants in the respective plan: to year.
the timing of grant of an award if any and payments: the size of an award and or a payment with limits as The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets described in the table above : and or set different measures for the annual bonus plan the extent of vesting based on the achievement of and PSP if events occur e. g. a material divestment or performance targets and applicable exercise periods acquisition which cause it to determine that the conditions where relevant: are no longer appropriate and an amendment is required so 54 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are For the PSP, awards are subject to a combination of 2 not materially less difficult to satisfy.
underlying basic EPS EPS and relative TSR performance conditions.
EPS is considered the most appropriate financial Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, metric for Rightmove at this stage in its development since be detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration and if it is the measure of profitability that is most closely aligned appropriate, the subject of prior communication with the with shareholders interests and monitored on an ongoing Companys major shareholders.
The Policy also recognises that relative TSR should also be a performance measure in For the avoidance of doubt, all previous commitments or order for there to be a clear alignment of executive and entitlements agreed prior to the approval of this Policy or shareholder interests.
EPS targets are set based on sliding appointment to the Board will be permitted to pay out on scales that take account of internal financial planning and their original terms or in line with the Policy in force at the external analyst forecasts.
Only 25% of the EPS element time they were agreed.
will pay out for threshold performance levels, with the Selection of performance measures and how maximum award requiring substantial out-performance.
targets are set For TSR, the range of targets measure how successful the The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus Company is in out-performing the FTSE 350 Index with and long-term incentive plans are a subset of the Groups 25% of this part of the award vesting at the threshold key performance indicators.
performance level, through to full vesting for 25% outperformance of the Index over the three-year performance For the annual bonus, underlying operating profit before 1 period.
For historic PSP awards, performance against the tax is the primary performance metric used as it is aligned FTSE 250 Index was the selected measure, however, the to the Groups strategy of delivering profitable growth and Company has resided in the top quartile of the FTSE 250 is a key financial performance indicator used within the for some time and the wider index is now considered more business.
Consistent with previous years, operating profit is appropriate for comparison purposes.
measured on an underlying basis, to exclude any volatility in relation to the Companys share price in connection with the Performance targets do not apply to Sharesave or SIP IFRS 2 valuation and National Insurance charge on shareawards since these awards are structured to encourage based incentives granted.
The underlying operating profit employees to become share-owners and to maintain tax- 1 before tax target is set on a sliding scale based around favoured status the awards must operate on a consistent the business plan for the year, with 25% payable for basis for all employees.
The Company does not at the present time take account The annual bonus also considers performance against other of the ratio of CEO to employee pay but will keep this under operational metrics, including a traffic market share target, review as market and best practice develops and as growth in Other revenue and an employee engagement regulations evolve.
target, for a minority of the bonus, with a sliding scale used How the views of employees are taken into account to determine performance against each measure.
The Company has not to date felt it necessary to consult Market share is a measure of the size and engagement of directly with employees on executive remuneration matters.
our audience and the value which Rightmove brings to our However, the Committee is kept aware of pay and customers and therefore a challenging target to increase employment conditions within the wider workforce when Rightmoves share of this audience is considered setting executive directors remuneration policy.
Remuneration policy for executive directors The Other revenue target measures growth in revenue compared to other employees from businesses other than Agency and New Homes.
The Committee will consider the proposed salary budget Since some of these businesses will be at an early stage of for the whole Group when it is deciding on salary increases development, we consider growth in revenue rather than for executive directors specifically.
in operating profit to be the appropriate measure and note In line with the Companys strategy to keep remuneration that this element of the bonus is only a small proportion of simple and consistent, benefits and pension arrangements the total bonus opportunity.
provided to executive directors are the same as those offered to all Group employees.
1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives 2 Underlying basic EPS is reported before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives with no related adjustment for tax Rightmove plc annual report 2016 55 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued The extent to which annual bonuses are offered varies by shareholders.
The Committee consulted major shareholders level of employee within the Group, with the quantum and representing over 50% of the Companys share ownership performance metrics used determined by the nature of the on proposed changes and continued suitability of the role and responsibilities and market rates at that level.
The shareholders who were consulted were overwhelmingly supportive of the Policy proposals and Long-term incentive awards such as the DSP, are only commented constructively in relation to several areas, offered to senior management as those awards are more including future rises in basic salary and post-vesting holding heavily weighted towards performance-related pay and have periods for long-term incentives.
Shareholder feedback was a stronger visibility on the value created for shareholders and considered by the Committee and contributed to the the reward for participants.
development of the overall Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders views The Committee considers it vitally important to maintain open and transparent communication with the Companys Reward scenarios The Companys reward policy as previously outlined is illustrated below using three different performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum: Scenario chart 2000 1,896 1800 1,588 1600 47% 1400 1,361 1200 47% 47% 1000 977 23% 818 800 701 29% 23% 600 23% 31% 29% 29% 448 31% 375 400 31% 321 200 100% 46% 24% 100% 46% 24% 100% 46% 24% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Nick McKittrick Peter Brooks-Johnson Robyn Perriss Chief Executive Ocer Chief Operating Ocer Finance Director Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Assumptions: 1.
Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension.
On-target 55% payable of the 2017 annual bonus and 62.5% vesting of the 2017 PSP awards being the midpoint between threshold vesting of 25% and maximum vesting of 100%.
Maximum 100% payable of the 2017 annual bonus and 100% vesting of the 2017 PSP awards.
Base salary is as set at 1 January 2017.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits using the cost as disclosed on page 65 for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The executive directors have elected not to partcipate in the Companys pension arrangements.
The executive directors can participate in the Sharesave Plan and SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
As required by the regulations no assumption is made as to future share price growth for reward elements deferred bonus and long-term incentives that are delivered in shares.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
co. uk 000 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Recruitment and promotion policy The Committee proposes an executive directors remuneration package for new appointments in line with the principles outlined in the table below: Element of remuneration Policy Base salary Base salary levels will be set based on the roles and responsibilities of the individual together with their relevant skills and experience, taking into account the market rates for companies of comparable size and complexity and internal Company relativities.
In some circumstances e. g. to reflect an individuals limited experience at a Plc board level it may be considered appropriate to set initial salary levels below the perceived market competitive rate.
Phased increases, potentially above inflation, may then be offered to achieve the desired market positioning over time, subject to an individuals continued performance and development in the role.
Benefits Benefits as provided to current executive directors.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment, and flexibility is retained for the Company to pay legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual in relation to their appointment.
Pension Defined contributions or a cash alternative at the level provided to current executive directors.
Annual bonus An annual bonus would operate in the same manner as outlined for the current executives as described above and in the Annual Report on Remuneration, although it would be pro-rated to reflect the employment period during the bonus year.
Flexibility will be retained to set equivalent objectives for any new executive joining part way through a year.
The maximum bonus potential would not exceed 125% of base salary.
It would be expected that the bonus for a new appointment would be assessed on the same performance metrics as that for the current executives on an ongoing basis.
However, depending on the timing and nature of appointment it may be necessary to set tailored performance criteria for their first bonus plan.
Long-term incentives A new appointment will be eligible to receive PSP awards as outlined in the policy table.
Share awards may be granted shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a close period and would be measured against the same performance criteria as the current executives.
However, any award granted outside the normal award and performance cycle may be pro-rated at the Committees discretion.
The Committee may introduce post-vesting holding periods under the PSP for new executives if it considers this an appropriate commitment in conjunction with the shareholding guidelines.
The ongoing maximum award would not exceed 200% of base salary.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
The new appointment would be eligible to participate in the Sharesave Plan and the SIP under the same terms as all other employees.
Buy-out awards To facilitate an external recruitment, it may be necessary to buy-out remuneration which would be forfeited on leaving their previous employer.
When determining the quantum and structure of any buy-out awards the Committee will, as a minimum, take into account the following factors: the form of remuneration cash or shares : timing of expected payment vesting: and expected value i. e. taking into account the likelihood of achieving the existing performance criteria.
Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing share plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 57 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Directors service contracts and non-executive the employing company, or other circumstances at the directors terms of appointment discretion of the Committee.
If defined as a good leaver, The Committees policy on service agreements for awards will remain subject to performance conditions, which executive directors is that they should provide for will be measured over the performance period from grant to 12 months notice of termination by the Company and the original vesting date, unless the Committee determine by the executive.
Any proposals for the early termination to assess performance from grant to the date of cessation, by the Company of the service agreements of directors, and which will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion are considered by the Committee.
of the performance period actually served.
The Committee retains the discretion to disapply time pro-rating in The service agreements for the executive directors allow exceptional circumstances and to accelerate the vesting for lawful termination of employment by making a payment of awards for good leavers in the event of death.
in lieu of notice or by making phased payments over any remaining unexpired period of notice.
The phased payments For awards granted under the DSP, good leaver status may be reduced if, and to the extent that, the executive finds may be determined for reasons of death, injury, disability, an alternative remunerated position.
redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
In addition, any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or If defined as a good leaver, awards will be retained and vest compromise claims in connection with the termination on the original vesting date, save as above in the event of would be paid as necessary.
The Company may also death, when the Committee has the discretion to provide a contribution toward reasonable legal fees or accelerate vesting.
Scott Forbes appointment may be terminated by either For Nick McKittrick a payment in lieu of notice will be related party giving to the other not less than three months notice to base salary, benefits and projected annual bonus pursuant in writing.
The Company may also terminate by making a to the Groups targets being achieved for the year pro-rated payment in lieu of notice.
Scott Forbes is not contractually for any unexpired period of notice where appropriate.
The entitled to any other benefits on termination of his contract.
Committee is aware that the provision of annual bonus with a payment in lieu of notice is no longer considered in line with The Letters of Appointment for the non-executive directors best practice.
The provision within Nick McKittricks contract provide for a term of up to two three-year periods and a is considered a legacy issue which would not be repeated in possible further three-year term subject to re-election any future directors service contract.
by shareholders and subject to the director remaining independent.
The appointments may be terminated with For Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn Perriss a payment in a notice period of three months on either side and the lieu of notice will be restricted to base salary and benefits.
Letters of Appointment set out the time commitments In good leaver circumstances a bonus may be paid at the required to meet the expectations of their roles.
normal time subject to achievement of the performance conditions and pro-rating for the period worked in the year.
Copies are available for inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
For awards granted under the PSP good leaver status may be determined, in certain prescribed circumstances, such Further details of all directors contracts and Letters of as death, ill health, disability, redundancy, transfer or sale of Appointment are summarised overleaf: 58 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Date of contract Notice Length of service at 1 Date of appointment Letter of Appointment months 24 February 2017 Executive directors 2 Nick McKittrick Chief Executive Officer 5 March 2004 7 February 2006 12 12 years 11 months 3 Peter Brooks-Johnson 10 January 2011 22 February 2011 12 6 years 1 month 4 Robyn Perriss 30 April 2013 1 May 2013 12 3 years 10 months Non-executive directors Scott Forbes Chairman 13 July 2005 21 February 2006 3 11 years 7 months Colin Kemp 3 July 2007 4 December 2007 3 9 years 7 months Ashley Martin 11 June 2009 9 June 2009 3 7 years 8 months Peter Williams 3 February 2014 3 February 2014 3 3 years 1 month Rakhi Goss-Custard 28 July 2014 28 July 2014 3 2 years 7 months Jacqueline fide Rojas 30 December 2016 10 October 2016 3 2 months 1 The service contracts and the Letters of Appointment for all directors appointed prior to 28 January 2008, were transferred from Rightmove Group Limited to Rightmove plc with effect from this date on completion of a Scheme of Arrangement under the Companies Act 1985.
2 Nick McKittrick joined the Group in December 2000 and was appointed to the Board on 5 March 2004.
His service with the Group at the date of this report is 16 years and 2 months.
3 Peter Brooks-Johnson joined the Group on 9 January 2006 and was appointed to the Board on 10 January 2011.
His service with the Group at the date of this report is 11 years and 1 month.
4 Robyn Perriss joined the Group on 1 July 2007 and was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2013.
Her service to the Group at the date of this report is 9 years and 8 months.
External appointments With the approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another listed or similar company and retain any fees received.
None of the executive directors currently hold any outside directorships.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 59 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct, Annual Report on Remuneration has been retained as the Committees remuneration advisor since 2011.
The terms of engagement between Remuneration Committee role and membership the Company and NBS are available from the Company Terms of reference Secretary on request.
The primary role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board as to the Companys overall The total fees paid to NBS in respect of services to the policy and framework for the remuneration of the executive Committee during the year were 42,000. directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors During 2016 NBS also provided services to the Company are determined by the Board as a whole.
in connection with the valuation of share-based incentives as required by IFRS 2 and confirmed that, in its view, these In accordance with the Code, the Committee also services did not present a conflict of interest with the other recommends the structure and monitors the level of services provided to the Committee.
The Committee remuneration for the first layer of management below Board reviews its relationship with external advisors on a regular level.
The Committee is also aware of, and advises on, the basis and continues to believe that there are no conflicts employee benefit structures throughout the Group and of interest.
ensures that it is kept aware of any potential business risks What has the Committee done during the year?
arising from those remuneration arrangements.
The Committee met six times during the year to consider The Committee has formal terms of reference which are and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items reviewed annually and updated as required.
These are including the following: available on the Companys website at plc.
co. uk or on request from the Company Secretary.
Pay and incentive plan reviews annual review and approval of executive directors base Membership salaries and benefits: The following independent non-executive directors were review of year-end business performance against relevant members of the Committee during 2016.
During the year performance targets to determine annual bonus payouts the Committee met six times and attendance at the and vesting of long-term incentives: meetings is shown below: review and approval of appropriate benchmarks and Committee Members Number of meetings attended performance measures for the annual performance related bonus and 2017 PSP awards to ensure measures Peter Williams Chairman of the Committee 6 are aligned with strategy and that targets are appropriately Colin Kemp 6 stretching: Rakhi Goss-Custard 6 ongoing monitoring of senior management remuneration structures: and approval of share awards granted under the Deferred Share The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two Bonus Plan DSP and the Rightmove Performance Share members.
The Committee will meet at such times as may be Plan PSP.
necessary but will normally meet at least five times a year.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Governance and strategy review of the Remuneration Policy for executive directors Only members of the Committee have the right to attend and consultation with major shareholders on the proposed Committee meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee policy before submitting it for shareholder approval at the has requested that the Chairman of the Board attend the 2017 AGM: meetings except during discussions relating to his own review and approval of the 2016 Directors Remuneration remuneration.
The Chief Executive Officer may also be Report: invited to meetings and the Committee takes into review of the 2016 AGM voting and feedback from consideration his recommendations regarding the institutional investors: remuneration of executive colleagues and the first layer evaluation of the Committees performance during the of management below Board level.
No executive director year: and is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
review of the Committees terms of reference.
External advisors New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Hewitt part of Aon plc, which is a member of the Remuneration 60 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Application of policy for year ending mechanism through which the clawback can be implemented 31 December 2017 enabling both the recovery and withholding of incentive pay Salaries enables the Committee to i reduce the cash bonus earned The executive directors salaries for the 2017 financial year in a subsequent year and or reduce outstanding DSP PSP are set out in the table below: share awards i. e. withholding provisions may be used to effect a recovery or ii for the Committee to require that a Salary Salary Workforce net of tax balancing cash payment be made to the Company.
1 January 31 December increase 2017 2016 plus Change The performance measures have been selected to reflect a range of financial and strategic targets that continue to Executive directors support the key objectives of the Group.
Nick McKittrick 445,536 424,320 3% 5% The performance measures and weightings will be as Peter Brooks-Johnson 373,136 355,368 3% 5% follows: Robyn Perriss 320,000 281,112 11.8% 13.8% Measure As a % of maximum bonus opportunity Financial targets The 5% increase in Nick McKittricks and Peter Brooks- 1 Underlying operating profit before tax 65% Johnsons salaries represents an increase of 3% above the average workforce increase of 2% for 2017, primarily to Strategic targets recognise the scale and complexity of their roles and also to 2 Traffic market share 15% address the relatively low pay of these executives compared 3 Other revenue 15% with market norms.
Robyn Perriss has been awarded an 4 Employee engagement 5% additional increase of 11.8% above the average all employee pay rise to reflect the lower starting salary awarded on her 1 Operating profit before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
appointment to the Board in her first role as a Finance 2 Measured on a time on site basis.
Director and in recognition of the performance and capability 3 Revenue excluding Agency and New Homes.
she has demonstrated as she has gained experience in that 4 Based on the results of the annual employee survey.
The salaries remain well below the market median for executives in comparable companies.
In relation to the financial target a challenging sliding scale will operate with 25% of the maximum bonus opportunity On 24 February 2017 the Company announced the payable at the threshold underlying operating profit target retirement of Nick McKittrick as Chief Executive Officer and relative to the 2017 business plan through to 100% the appointment of Peter Brooks-Johnson as his successor, becoming payable for significant outperformance relative with effect from 9 May 2017.
Further details are disclosed to the plan.
A greater proportion of the award will be paid on page 74. for exceeding on-target performance.
Pension and other benefits The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan for The weighting of all performance measures are unchanged employees under which the employer contributes 6% of from 2016. base salary, subject to the employee contributing a minimum The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2017 financial of 3% of base salary.
Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, Perriss participated in the pension plan during the year.
retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance However, the executive directors have chosen not to against them will be provided in next years Annual Report participate in this arrangement in future years.
The Company on Remuneration to the extent that they do not remain does not contribute to any personal pension arrangements.
commercially sensitive at that time.
The executive directors are enrolled in the Groups private Long-term incentives medical insurance scheme and receive life assurance cover The award levels under the PSP, originally approved in 2014, equal to four times base salary.
Additionally, the executive remain at 200% of base salary for all executive directors.
directors are members of the Groups medical cash plan.
Consistent with current market practice and previous years, Annual bonus awards to the executive directors under the PSP in 2017 will The annual bonus for the 2017 financial year will be consistent be subject to a mixture of EPS 75% of awards and relative with the policy detailed on page 52 of the Remuneration TSR 25% of the awards performance conditions.
The 2017 Policy section of this report in terms of maximum bonus targets are as follows: opportunity, deferral and clawback provisions.
The Rightmove plc annual report 2016 61 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued EPS performance condition Chairman and non-executive directors fees The Groups EPS growth will be measured over the period of The Chairman and non-executive fees were last reviewed in three financial years 2017 to 2019.
The EPS figure used will a market context in 2015 and increased to current levels.
In be equivalent to the Groups basic underlying EPS before line with our policy they will be reviewed periodically, usually share-based payments, National Insurance on share-based every three years, with the next increase anticipated in 2018. incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
With a view to The basic non-executive fee is 50,000 with an additional ensuring appropriately stretching but achievable targets are 10,000 fee per annum paid for the chairing of the Audit set in light of market expectations for the Group, the and Remuneration Committees and a further 5,000 fee following range of targets will apply to the 2017 awards: paid to the Senior Independent Director as detailed in the Underlying basic EPS growth % of award vesting table below: 1 from 2017 to 2019 maximum 75% Annual fee Annual fee Less than 20% 0% 1 January 2017 31 December 2016 20% 18.75% Scott Forbes Chairman 170,000 170,000 50% 75% Colin Kemp 50,000 50,000 Between 20% and 50% Straight-line vesting Ashley Martin 60,000 60,000 Peter Williams 65,000 65,000 1 The benchmark underlying basic EPS for the financial year 2016 from which these targets will be measured is 142.8p.
Rakhi Goss-Custard 50,000 50,000 1 Jacqueline fide Rojas 50,000 274 As in prior years, the targets that are intended to operate for the 2017 PSP awards were set to be appropriately 1 Fee for 2016 is for two days from her appointment on 30 December 2016. demanding in light of the Groups internal planning, external market expectations for future growth and the current Statement of shareholder voting at AGM trading environment, the targets are considered to provide a At the AGM on 5 May 2016, 94.91% of shareholders voted realistic incentive at the lower end of the performance range in favour of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The but require exceptional performance to achieve full vesting.
Committee believes this illustrates the strong level of On this basis, the Committee is satisfied that the range of shareholder support for the remuneration framework.
targets are appropriately demanding, and no less challenging The table below shows full details of the voting outcomes than the range of targets set for 2016 awards.
for the Directors Remuneration Report: Relative TSR performance condition Votes % Votes Votes % Votes Votes 1 The vesting schedule for the relative TSR element of for for against against withheld executive directors 2017 PSP awards is set out below.
Directors Relative TSR will be assessed against the FTSE 350 Index, Remuneration 77,382,308 94.91 4,146,773 5.09 879,511 reflecting the Companys size in terms of market Report capitalisation.
Performance will be measured over three financial years.
1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
TSR performance of the Company % of award vesting 1 relative to the FTSE 350 Index maximum 25% In line with the Companys commitment to ongoing dialogue Less than the Index 0% with its shareholders, meetings are offered, where Equal to the Index 6.25% appropriate, to understand the reasons for any potential or actual opposition to the Companys Remuneration Policy.
25% higher than the Index 25% Changes are made to our Policy where it is considered Intermediate performance Straight-line vesting appropriate to do so.
1 If the FTSE 350 Indexs TSR was 50% over the three-year performance period, then the Companys TSR would have to be at least 75% for all 25% of the PSP shares to vest.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Review of past performance share index.
The FTSE 250 Index was previously chosen as Share price performance the comparator because Rightmove was, and continues to In 2016, the Companys share price ended the year at 39.03, be, a constituent of this Index and it was therefore also the down 5.4% year on year the FTSE 250 Index was up 3.7% Index used historically for the purposes of measuring relative and the FTSE 350 Index was up 12.5%.
On a three-year basis performance for PSP awards.
From 2016 as Rightmove the share price has increased by 42.4% and has continued to continues to be ranked towards the top of that Index in outperform both the FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Indices over terms of market capitalisation, it was felt to be more that period as shown in the graphs below.
appropriate to use the FTSE 350 Index for the purpose of comparing TSR performance and therefore this will be used Total shareholder return TSR as the criteria applied to 25% of the PSP awards to be The first graph below compares the TSR of Rightmoves granted in March 2017. shares against the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Index for the three-year period from 1 January 2014 to The graphs below illustrate, for statutory purposes, the 31December 2016.
TSR is the product of movements in TSR of Rightmoves shares against the FTSE 250 Index the share price plus dividends reinvested on the ex-dividend and the FTSE 350 Index for the three and eight years to date.
TSR provides a useful, widely used benchmark to 31December 2016. illustrate the Companys performance over the last three years.
Specifically, it illustrates the value of 100 invested in Rightmoves shares and in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Index over that period.
As required by the Act, the Companys TSR performance is required to be shown against a recognised broad-based TSR Graph three years TSR Graph eight years Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return 3000 180 2399% 53% 2500 150 24% 120 2000 20% 90 1500 60 1000 30 500 254% 131% 0 0 RightmoveFTSE 250 FTSE 350 Source: Thomson Reuters Rightmove FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Source: Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value by 31 December 2016 of 100 invested in Rightmove on This graph shows the value by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Rightmove on 31 December 2013 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index 31 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Index, on a daily basis.
and FTSE 350 Index, on a daily basis.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 63 Value Value Jan 14 Jul 14 Jan 15 Jul 15 Jan 16 Jul 16 Dec 16 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer over an eight-year performance period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards that vested based on performance in those years.
Nick McKittrick was appointed Chief Executive Officer at this time.
2 The table above includes share-based incentive awards in the period that the associated performance conditions, excluding service conditions are satisfied.
Certain pre-float share option awards prior to 2006, which had only service conditions and no performance conditions would have been included in the single figure remuneration table in the year of grant in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Act.
The table above therefore excludes 4,151,532 and 2,026,674 of awards with no performance conditions, which vested in 2010 and 2009 respectively.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration audited The information included below up to and including page 72 is audited.
The remuneration of the directors of the Company during the year for time served as a director is as follows: Fixed pay Performance related pay Long-term Performance Total Fixed pay Annual incentives related pay remuneration 1 2 3 Salary Fee Benefits Pension subtotal bonus PSPs subtotal in 2016 Executive directors Nick McKittrick 424,320 1,973 426,293 487,968 1,212,662 1,700,630 2,126,923 Peter Brooks-Johnson 355,368 1,973 15,849 373,190 408,673 1,015,601 1,424,274 1,797,464 Robyn Perriss 281,112 1,240 13,233 295,585 323,279 803,392 1,126,671 1,422,256 Non-executive directors Scott Forbes 170,000 170,000 170,000 Colin Kemp 50,000 50,000 50,000 Ashley Martin 60,000 60,000 60,000 Peter Williams 65,000 65,000 65,000 Rakhi Goss-Custard 50,000 50,000 50,000 4 Jacqueline fide Rojas 274 274 274 1 Benefits in kind for the executive directors relate to private medical insurance and the medical cash plan.
2 The annual bonus amount relates to the accrued payment in respect of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2016 including the deferred element of 60%.
3 The value of the nil cost PSPs vesting is calculated by taking the number of nil cost options expected to vest in March 2017 including dividend roll-up, which are dependent on the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2016 and multiplying by the year end closing share price of 39,03.
4 Fee for two days from appointment on 30 December 2016 to year end.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 65 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued The remuneration of the directors of the Company during 2015 was: Fixed pay Performance related pay Long-term Performance Total Fixed pay Annual incentives related pay remuneration 1 2 3 Salary Fee Benefits Pension subtotal bonus PSPs subtotal in 2015 Executive directors Nick McKittrick 408,000 1,931 409,931 510,000 1,380,418 1,890,418 2,300,349 Peter Brooks-Johnson 341,700 1,835 22,860 366,395 427,125 1,035,345 1,462,470 1,828,865 6 Robyn Perriss 270,300 1,834 21,816 293,950 337,875 638,399 976,274 1,270,224 Non-executive directors Scott Forbes 117,042 117,042 117,042 4 Jonathan Agnew 20,632 20,632 20,632 Colin Kemp 46,817 46,817 46,817 Ashley Martin 52,669 52,669 52,669 4 Judy Vezmar 16,506 16,506 16,506 5 Peter Williams 54,410 54,410 54,410 Rakhi Goss-Custard 46,817 46,817 46,817 1 Benefits in kind for the executive directors relate to private medical insurance and the medical cash plan.
2 The annual bonus amount relates to the accrued payment in respect of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2015 including the deferred element of 60%.
3 The value of the nil cost PSPs vesting is calculated by taking the number of nil cost options expected to vest in March 2016 including dividend roll-up, which are dependent on the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2015 and multiplying by the year end closing share price of 41.25.
4 Fee for the year up to retirement from the Board and Committees at the AGM on 7 May 2015.
5 Fee includes a pro-rated increase from 7 May 2015 for appointment as Remuneration Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
6 These relate to nil cost PSPs granted to Robyn Perriss prior to her appointment as director.
Defined contribution pension The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan for employees under which the employer contributes 6% of base salary, subject to the employee contributing a minimum of 3% of base salary.
Nick McKittrick chose not to participate in this arrangement.
Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn Perriss were members of the stakeholder pension plan during 2015 and the Company contributed 22,860 and 21,816 that year respectively: both directors elected to withdraw from the pension plan during 2016 with contributions made of 15,849 and 13,233 respectively.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements How was pay linked to performance in 2016?
Annual bonus plan The incentive for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 was in the form of a cash bonus of up to 50% of salary and a DSP bonus of up to 75% of salary i. e. 125% in total.
The bonus both cash and DSP elements was determined by a mixture of underlying operating profit performance 65% and key performance indicators 35% relating to underlying drivers of long-term revenue growth.
When comparing performance against the 2016 bonus targets set, the Committee determined that 92% of the maximum achievable cash and DSP bonus should be paid to the executive directors.
Accordingly, a cash bonus of 46% of base salary will be paid to the executives and 69% of base salary will be granted to the executives under the DSP, which will be deferred until March 2019.
More details are provided in the table below: As a % of Resulting maximum bonus bonus Measure Hurdle opportunity Actual performance achieved % achieved Financial targets Underlying operating Targets: 65% Underlying operating profit achieved: 65% 1 profit before tax 153.3m: 25% payout 166.2m 163.8m: 100% payout The 2016 profit represented growth of 15% on 2015 Strategic targets 15% Growth in absolute visits was 17.75 times 15% Traffic market share Growth in absolute visits on 2015 compared to nearest competitor: higher than our nearest competitor Same absolute growth: 25% payout 50% higher absolute growth: 100% payout 2 Other revenue Growth of 20%: 25% payout 15% Revenue increased from 14.5m to 7% Growth of 30%: 100% payout 17.8m, an increase of 23% Employee Percentage of respondents to the 5% 95% of respondents say Rightmove 5% 3 engagement employee survey who say Rightmove is a great place to work is a great place to work: 90%: 25% payout 95%: 100% payout Total 100% 92% 1 Operating profit before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
2 The targets relate to all revenue streams except Agency and New Homes.
3 Based on the results of the annual employee survey.
Long-term incentives The PSP awards granted in March 2014 were subject to EPS 75% of the awards and relative TSR 25% of the awards performance conditions that related to the three-year period ended 31 December 2016.
The vesting schedule for the relative TSR element of executive directors 2014 PSP awards is set out below: % of award vesting Relative TSR condition maximum 25% Less than the Index 0% Equal to the Index 6.25% 25% higher than the Index 25% Intermediate performance Straight-line vesting Rightmove plc annual report 2016 67 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued At the end of the performance period, Rightmoves TSR was 53% compared to 24% for the FTSE 250 Index.
As this level of outperformance is 29% higher than the Index, these options will vest in full from 3 March 2017.
Rightmoves EPS growth is measured over a period of three financial years 2014 to 2016.
The EPS figure used is equivalent to Rightmoves reported underlying basic EPS before share-based payments, NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustments for tax and the vesting schedule is set out below: Underlying basic EPS growth % of award vesting from 2014 to 2016 maximum 75% Less than 40% 0% 40% 18.75% 70% 75% Between 40% and 70% Straight-line vesting At the end of the performance period, underlying EPS was 142.8p which from an underlying basic EPS base of 81.0p results in growth of 76%, exceeding the maximum 70% EPS growth target and will result in full vesting of this part of the award maximum of 75% from 3 March 2017.
Share awards granted during the year On 1 March 2016 Nick McKittrick, Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn Perriss were awarded shares under the PSP, which vest in March 2019, and are subject to a mixture of EPS 75% of the awards and relative TSR 25% of the awards performance with the greater weighting on EPS to reflect its particular relevance to the performance of the business.
1 Executive Basis of grant Number of shares Face value of award Nick McKittrick 200% of base salary 21,912 848,640 Peter Brooks-Johnson 200% of base salary 18,351 710,736 Robyn Perriss 200% of base salary 14,516 562,224 1 Based on the average mid-market share price for the three consecutive days prior to grant, taken from the Daily Official List, of 38.73.
The vesting schedule for the relative TSR element of Rightmoves EPS growth will be measured over a period of executive directors 2016 PSP awards is set out below.
It is three financial years 2016-2018.
The EPS figure used will consistent with the TSR condition used for previous be equivalent to the Groups underlying basic EPS before grants under the share option scheme.
Performance will share-based payments, NI on share-based incentives and be measured over three financial years.
no related adjustments for tax.
The following vesting schedule will apply for executive % of award vesting directors awards granted in 2016: Relative TSR condition maximum 25% Less than the Index 0% Underlying basic EPS growth % of award vesting from 2016 to 2018 maximum 75% Equal to the Index 6.25% Less than 25% 0% 25% higher than the Index 25% Equal to 25% 18.75% Intermediate performance Straight-line vesting Equal to or greater than 55% 75% Between 25% and 55% Straight-line vesting The benchmark underlying basic EPS for the financial year 2015 from which these targets will be measured is 121.4p.
The average mid-market share price for the three consecutive preceding days, used to calculate the number of shares awarded, was 38.73.
2 On 2 March 2016, the executive directors were awarded nil cost shares under the PSP, which vest in March 2019.
Further details are set out on page 68.
3 The nil cost deferred shares granted under the DSP on 3 March 2014, were exercisable from 3 March 2016 subject to annual bonus targets which were met in full.
Nick McKittrick exercised 9,224 shares on 16 December 2016 and sold 4,353 shares at an average market price of 37.49 per share to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained the balance of 4,871 shares.
Peter Brooks-Johnson exercised 6,918 shares on 16 December 2016 and sold 3,266 shares at an average market price of 37.49 per share to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained the balance of 3,652 shares.
4 On 2 March 2012, the executive directors were awarded nil cost options under the PSP which vested in 2015 subject to EPS and relative TSR performance measures, which were met in full.
Peter Brooks-Johnson exercised 24,879 shares which included a dividend roll-up of 928 shares in December 2016, sold 11,743 upon exercise at an average market price of 37.44 to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained the balance of 13,136 shares.
5 In October 2012, Nick McKittrick was granted a Sharesave option over 694 shares which vested in November 2015 at an exercise price of 12.95.
In April 2016, Nick exercised the option in full and retained the shares.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 71 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Dilution All existing executive share-based incentives can be satisfied from shares held in the Rightmove Employees Share Trust EBT and shares held in treasury.
It is intended that the 2017 share-based incentive awards will also be settled from shares currently held in the EBT or from shares held in treasury without any requirement to issue further shares.
Directors interests in shares The interests both beneficial and family interests of the directors in office at the date of this report in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Interests in Interests in ordinary shares of 0.01 share-based incentives PSP & DSP PSP & DSP awards Options At At awards vested but Options vested but 31 December 2016 1 January 2016 unvested unexercised unvested unexercised Executive directors Nick McKittrick 146,592 141,027 96,698 32,279 760 279,755 Peter Brooks-Johnson 55,146 38,358 80,984 24,210 760 266,839 Robyn Perriss 5,833 5,833 64,061 19,281 912 Non-executive directors Scott Forbes 319,300 319,300 Ashley Martin 2,060 2,060 Peter Williams 3,728 3,728 Colin Kemp 2,500 2,500 Rakhi Goss-Custard 544 Jacqueline fide Rojas Total 535,703 512,806 241,743 75,770 2,432 546,594 The Companys shares in issue including 2,271,725 shares held in treasury as at 31 December 2016 comprised 95,490,266 2015: 97,741,977 ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
The closing share price of the Company was 39.03 as at 30 December 2016 the last day of trading in 2016.
The lowest and highest share prices during the year were 31.73 and 43.02 respectively.
The executive directors are regarded as being interested, for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, in 343,275 2015: 386,057 ordinary shares of 0.01 each in the Company currently held by the EBT as they are, together with other employees, potential beneficiaries of the EBT.
The directors beneficial holdings represent 0.6% of the Companys shares in issue as at 31 December 2016 2015: 0.5% excluding shares held in treasury.
There have been no changes to the above interests between the year-end and the date of this report.
Executive director share ownership guidelines are set out in the Remuneration Policy Report on page 53.
The interests of the executive directors in office at 31 December 2016 in the share capital of the Company as a percentage of base salary were as follows: Number of Value of Base salary shares held at Value of shares at shares as a % 1 January 2017 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 of base salary Executive directors Nick McKittrick 445,536 146,592 5,721,486 1284% Peter Brooks-Johnson 373,136 55,146 2,152,348 576% Robyn Perriss 320,000 5,833 227,662 71% 72 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer CEO between the current and previous financial year compared to that of the total amounts for all employees of the Group for each of these elements of pay.
The CEOs salary increased by 4%, in line with the average workforce inflationary increase in 2016.
The annual bonus of the CEO decreased by 4% as a result of 92% of the maximum bonus being achieved in relation to the 2016 bonus targets, compared with a pay-out of 100% in 2015.
The average salary for all employees increased by 5% due to a 4% universal cost of living increase in January 2016, together with the investment in new heads in 2016, primarily being in sales and technology roles at higher than average salary levels.
The increase in average employee benefits relates to an increase in the cost of private healthcare from 1 March 2016, together with increased take-up of BUPA health checks throughout the year.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the total pay for all of Rightmoves employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and underlying operating profit has been provided for context.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 % change Employee costs refer Note 7 27,423,000 23,464,000 17% Dividends to shareholders refer Note 12 43,206,000 36,469,000 18% Purchase of own shares refer Note 22 88,083,000 76,071,000 16% Income tax refer Note 10 32,005,000 27,636,000 16% Average number of employees refer Note 7 469 412 14% Revenue 219,993,000 192,129,000 15% 1 Underlying operating profit 166,240,000 144,271,000 15% 1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
Rightmove plc annual report 2016 73 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Retirement arrangements for Nick McKittrick On 23 February 2017, Nick McKittrick notified the Board of his intention to retire as a director and Chief Executive Officer following the AGM on 9 May 2017.
His employment with the Group will end on 30 June 2017 following a handover period to ensure a smooth transition process.
The Committee determined that he will continue to be paid his salary and normal package of benefits up to the date of his departure.
He will not receive any bonus for the part of the 2017 financial year worked or be eligible for a PSP award in March 2017, but will receive a bonus in respect of the 2016 financial year as set out on page 67.
In line with our Policy, 40% of his bonus will be paid in cash with the balance deferred in shares for a period of two years.
The Committee also determined that Nick McKittrick will be treated as a good leaver in relation to his outstanding PSP and DSP awards, with these awards vesting in line with the relevant plan rules and the Remuneration Policy set out on pages 50 to 59.
Outstanding PSP awards will also be subject to the achievement of performance conditions and vest pro-rata in accordance with the plan rules.
Full details of the remuneration arrangements will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and the Company will publish a statement in accordance with Section 430 2B of the Companies Act following the AGM.
The remuneration arrangements for Peter Brooks-Johnson who will replace Nick McKittrick as Chief Executive Officer will be in line with our Policy and our recently concluded executive remuneration review.
The Committee has recommended that Peter Brooks-Johnsons basic salary is increased to 445,536 with effect from 9 May 2017 to reflect his role and responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee also agreed that a further PSP award will be made on 9 May 2017 to bring his 2017 PSP award in line with his Chief Executive Officer salary.
