STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman of executives will normally be performance related, which is provided in Dear shareholders the form of variable short and long-term incentives, weighted towards On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2016 directors the long-term and delivered in Rio Tinto shares.
remuneration report the Remuneration Report, for which we seek your In relation to the short-term incentive plan STIP, the Committee each support at our annual general meetings AGMs, in London in April, and year sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold, in Sydney in May.
Target performance is intended to be The Remuneration Report is designed to demonstrate the link between stretching, and is typically equivalent to the business plan for the year.
the Groups strategy, its performance, and the remuneration outcomes Our approach to the disclosure of measures, weightings and targets for our executives, particularly the executive directors.
In relation to the long-term incentive plan LTIP, Rio Tinto takes a long-term approach to its activities.
This means that we these will all be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of each five-year concentrate on developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations, performance period.
In relation to the STIP, we will, when it comes to that are capable of providing attractive returns to our shareholders disclosure, distinguish between safety goals and financial and individual throughout the cycle.
Our executives performance objectives are goals.
In the area of safety goals, we will continue to disclose the set accordingly.
measures, weightings and targets at the beginning of each year.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will continue to disclose, at the The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with beginning of each year, the measures and weightings only, because we applicable legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, as we said in the Australia.
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key Remuneration Report last year, we intended to disclose, and have in the management personnel, being those persons having authority and Implementation Report disclosed, the targets and outcomes for 2016 responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on Group.
The key management personnel are, in addition to the directors, grounds of commercial sensitivity, I will seek to explain why, and give an the non-director members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive indication of when they would be disclosed.
Committee comprises the executive directors, product group chief executives and Group executives.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, The chart on page 92 demonstrates the usual timeframe for the delivery the members of the Executive Committee are collectively referred to as of the components of remuneration, using 2016 as an example.
They are listed on pages 53 and 54, with details of the emphasises the long-term nature of our remuneration arrangements.
positions held during the year and dates of appointment to those roles.
You will see several mechanisms in the Remuneration Report that are  intended to create alignment of interest between shareholders and Australian legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules differ.
We have, for our executives, a mandatory conversion of We have structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders 50 per cent of any annual short-term bonus payment into shares, with vote on both the resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
vesting deferred for three years.
The performance measures under our long-term remuneration plans are structured to support and incentivise This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of the creation of long-term shareholder value.
In addition, should remuneration policy, which summarises our policies and practices the circumstances warrant, we have reserved to the Committee such Remuneration Policy : and the annual report on remuneration, which discretions as enable it to safeguard against the return experience shows how the Remuneration Policy has been applied the of shareholders being materially misaligned with the reward experience Implementation Report.
Because we want their remuneration outcomes properly to The Remuneration Policy was subject to a binding vote for UK law reflect the Groups overall performance.
We also have meaningful share purposes in 2015 and became effective in respect of payments to ownership requirements for our executives which are described in the directors from 7 May 2015.
Minor changes were made to the Implementation Report.
Remuneration Policy included in the 2015 Annual report: these did not There are many examples in the Remuneration Policy and practice of require shareholder approval.
A version of the Remuneration Policy how our dialogue with shareholders has influenced the Committees which highlights these changes can be found on our website.
In 2013, we added a new performance measure to our be no vote this year for UK law purposes on the Remuneration Policy.
It is Performance Share Plan PSP, namely the relative EBIT margin our intention that the Remuneration Policy will next be put before improvement measure.
We did this because many of our owners had shareholders for a vote, for UK law purposes, at our AGMs in 2018. expressed a wish that our PSP should incorporate some diversification The Implementation Report including this statement is subject to an beyond total shareholder return TSR.
We extended the performance advisory vote for UK law purposes.
The Remuneration Report as a period of the PSP from four to five years and we materially reduced the whole is subject to an advisory vote for Australian law purposes.
Both pay-out for threshold performance.
We ceased new awards under our resolutions are to be voted on at the AGMs as Joint Decision Matters by Share Option Plan.
We have adjusted the safety measures in our STIP Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders.
targets to reflect lost time injuries and all injury frequency rates.
In addition, from and including 2016, we included performance metrics Although, as a matter of UK law, the Remuneration Policy only applies relating to a key programme to support our goal of fatality elimination, to the remuneration of our directors, it is the intention of the called critical risk management CRM, which is described in more detail Remuneration Committee the Committee that its broad policy on page 26. principles will continue to inform the way in which our non-director key management personnel on the Executive Committee are remunerated.
Our meetings with shareholders in 2016 were well attended and provided an opportunity for me to discuss remuneration related topics The Remuneration Policy describes, among other things: our executive with our owners.
I look forward to continuing that dialogue during 2017 remuneration structure: the details of the discretions available to the as we prepare to present our refreshed Remuneration Policy to Committee: our approach to remuneration on recruitment: the details of shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
executives service contracts: and how we treat leavers.
2017 decisions Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form of base salary: participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund and In his letter, the chairman of the board has provided context to the issues or a cash allowance to contribute to a pension fund: the receipt of certain arising from the Simandou project.
The board has determined that it benefits: and performance-related remuneration.
Each element is would be inappropriate, while investigations are ongoing, to make any described in the Remuneration Policy.
The majority of the remuneration determination about Sam Walsh, our former chief executive, or about his outstanding remuneration.
The company has therefore reached an 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 67 Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman continued agreement with Sam to defer the payment of his 2016 STIP award and all because Jean-Sbastien was paid as a deputy chief executive and remaining unvested LTIP awards including BDP and PSP awards for a product group chief executive for the first half of 2016.
If we compare minimum of two years.
Further details of these arrangements are Jean-Sbastiens single figure for 2016 compared to 2015, it is higher described in the Implementation Report.
because his base pay and variable pay increased upon his appointment as chief executive.
There will be no annual salary increases for the chief executive or for the The single total figure of remuneration for the chief financial officer, Chris newly appointed members of the Executive Committee.
Consistent with Lynch, is higher in 2016 due mainly to the LTIP awards vesting in 2016, the prior practice, annual salary increases for other executives are in line this being the first vesting of such awards following his appointment to with the base salary budgets applying to the broader employee population.
the Executive Committee in April 2013.
For 2017, the STIP measures and opportunities for executives remain Short Term Incentive Plan STIP weighted 50 per cent for financial, 30 per cent for individual and The 2016 STIP awards for both executive directors are higher than last 20 per cent for safety measures.
The Group financial targets relate to year although in the case of Jean-Sbastien, this comparison is distorted earnings and free cash flow.
The individual targets cover objectives by what I described above, reflecting performance against stretching directly relating to the five strategic priorities, described on page 9. safety, financial and individual targets.
I will talk in a moment about the These include safety, cash, license to operate, people and growth, aggregate STIP financial result, but before that I will talk about the 2016 together with an assessment of broader leadership capability and safety performance.
The 2017 safety measures, weightings and targets are fully STIP Safety disclosed on page 91.
The financial measures and weightings are also Our safety performance continues to improve year on year, but the described on page 89.
We expect to describe the 2017 financial and challenge to do better remains.
In June 2016, a colleague died at individual targets retrospectively in the 2017 Implementation Report.
Paraburdoo, our iron ore operation in Western Australia.
Our Critical Risk The level of LTIP awards to be granted to executives in March 2017, as a Management CRM programme is designed to prevent fatalities in the ,  .
Consistent with our practice since 1998, the awards made under some solid learnings and improvements in 2016, starting the rollout of the LTIP are calculated using the average share price over the previous CRM at every site, with leaders recording more than 1.3 million calendar year.
As such, the awards granted in 2017 will be calculated verifications, and we introduced new procedures to make our rail using the 2016 average share prices of 23.352 and A$48.533 networks safer.
 Looking at achievement against our 2016 safety STIP targets, the ofFebruary2017.
, thereversewas Groups all injury frequency rate remained unchanged at 0.44 for 2016 true.
The level of the average price compared to the current price has an which was the Groups threshold target set at the 2015 AIFR impact on the number of shares contained within an LTIP award.
There were 206 lost time injuries in 2016 compared with 220 decision to use average prices over the year, rather than spot prices, is in 2015.
This was above the level set for threshold performance for the intended to subdue the reward consequences of share price volatility.
Group, and just below the level set for target, of 202 lost time injuries.
Performance against the CRM measures was between target and The performance conditions for the 2017 PSP awards are outlined in the outstanding.
This has led to a total safety outcome for the Group of Implementation Report.
The 2017 comparator group for the EBIT margin 106 per cent out of 200 per cent.
measure remains unchanged from 2016 although Alcoas membership will be subject to future review following its recent demerger.
However, reductions were applied to the safety performance component of the STIP where a fatality occurred.
For example, the safety result for 2016 performance and remuneration the chief executive was reduced from 106 per cent to 85 per cent due to ,  the impact of the Paraburdoo fatality.
This was driven by a 25 percent financial and individual targets for our Short Term Incentive Plan STIP, reduction for the period from the chief executives appointment as setbytheboardfor2016.
 deputy chief executive effective 17 March 2016, leading to an overall against targets, save to say that, in the main, targets were exceeded, reduction of 20 percent for the year.
Such adjustments reflect the level especially when looking at the financial targets on an unflexed basis.
I of oversight which the chief executive and other executives had for safety talk later in this statement about 2016 remuneration outcomes, and I leadership during the year.
There were also safety related downward describe our flexing policy in relation to the STIP.
This is designed to adjustments to the remuneration of the chief financial officer and of subdue the reward consequences of significant foreign exchange and certain other executives.
STIP Financial I know that shareholders expect to see strong alignment between the To remind you, in considering financial performance against the annual value of their own shareholdings and the wealth of executives.
The plan, we measure half against the original plan: the other half is flexed remuneration outcomes shown in the single total figure of remuneration to exclude the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates, and quoted testify clearly to this alignment.
Fifty per cent of the annual STIP awards metal and other prices during the year, which are outside managements are deferred into shares through the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP for control.
We have used this approach consistently since 2005 for three years, specifically to ensure that a material proportion of shortmeasuring our earnings performance, and have flexed the cash flow term pay is exposed over the medium term to fluctuations in our outcomes since the introduction of this measure in the STIP in 2009. share price.
When commodity prices rise, or there are favourable exchange rate variations, we protect shareholders by ensuring that 50 per cent of the The single total figure of remuneration is of understandable interest to STIP opportunity as it relates to financial performance is denied the shareholders, so let me comment on it.
The picture is somewhat benefit of that rise.
When the reverse happens, and commodity prices fall complicated in this years report because of the retirement of our or there are negative exchange rate variations, that STIP opportunity is previous chief executive, Sam Walsh, at the beginning of July, and his safeguarded as to 50 per cent against the fall.
Our view is that this succession by Jean-Sbastien Jacques.
Jean-Sbastiens base pay and approach maintains appropriate incentive for executives, even in times of variable pay arrangements are at a similar level to his predecessors, significant earnings volatility.
using three-year average exchange rates.
However, our new chief executive does not receive the expatriate benefits provided to his In terms of achievement against our 2016 financial STIP targets, the predecessor.
If we compare the chief executives total single figure of Committee determined that the outstanding level for underlying remuneration for 2016 with the equivalent figure for last year, it is lower, unflexed earnings and free cash flow set by the board was exceeded.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN .
Itis would result in a vesting of 100 percent for this measure 33.33 per cent worth noting that the targets were set in early 2016 when there was a ofthetotalaward.
 subdued outlook for commodity prices.
For example, iron ore prices not have the reported data for all the comparator companies.
The overall started 2016 at US$43 per tonne and ended the year around US$80 per estimated vesting for the award when the TSR and EBIT margin portions tonne.
Shareholders too benefited from the unexpected increase in are combined is therefore 58.0 per cent.
The Committee will make a commodity prices, particularly in the second half of the year, because definitive assessment against the improvement in EBIT margin measure this created higher profits for the year than were signaled by consensus when the details of the margin performance of the comparator group estimates in January 2016, with the commensurate strengthening in companies become available in May 2017 and if applicable, this portion share price and the level of dividend payments.
A significant contribution of the award would vest on 31 May 2017.  There were a number of changes to the Groups Executive Committee exceeding challenging cost savings and productivity targets.
during 2016, all of which have previously been announced.
The details of Taking all these points into consideration, the Committee determined .
The that the STIP financial result for 2016 should be 166 per cent out of a appointment and departure terms for other executives are included in maximum of 200 per cent.
This was after certain minor adjustments to the relevant sections of the Implementation Report.
These include the the targets in 2016 to take account of events outside managements severance terms for Alan Davies and Debra Valentine.
The terms in all control and to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
The financial result cases are compliant with our Remuneration Policy and with precedent.
before adjustments made by the Committee was 167 per cent.
The Company continues to monitor gender pay and is satisfied that Long Term Incentive Plan awards made between male and female employees demonstrate equality.
Turning to the LTIP, the PSP awards granted in 2013 have three performance metrics TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Governance and owners views Index, TSR relative to the MSCI World Index and improvement in EBIT It continues to be our intention to be alert to evolving best practice as margin relative to global mining comparators weighted one third each.
well as to the views and guidance given to us in the conversations we Once again, I believe that the award outcome clearly demonstrates that have with our owners.
The Committee reaffirms its commitment to keep  under review the level of vesting for threshold performance under the alongside each other has protected shareholders against windfall gains PSP.
We are committed to a continuing dialogue, including listening to for executives.
For while our TSR against the Mining Index demonstrated viewsaboutthisreport, whicharemostwelcome.
outperformance, we underperformed against the MSCI.
The outcome against the TSR measures, which is explained in the Implementation Yours sincerely, Report, was an award of 24.67 per cent out of a potential 66.67 per cent.
The Committee gave consideration to the Groups overall performance during the four-year performance period and concluded that the vesting of awards, based upon the achievement of the TSR measures, was justified and, by consequence, this portion of the award vested on John Varley 20 February 2017.
Remuneration Committee chairman The estimated performance against the EBIT margin measure is that Rio Tinto ranked no.
2 against the comparator group of eleven, which 2016 Annual report riotinto.
