Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy The majority of remuneration is linked to healthy, safe and environmentally Remuneration Policy introduction demanding performance targets over both appropriateway.
Theseareimportant This Remuneration Policy applies to our the short and long term to ensure that elements of our licence to operate.
executive and non-executive directors and to executive rewards are directed at delivering Safety key performance indicators the chairman.
It also sets out, in conformance good performance for shareholders.
determine a significant portion of the STIP with Australian law, the broad policy principles For the purposes of assessing the for executives.
which generally apply to the non-director appropriate level of executive Any fatality will have a material impact on members of the Executive Committee.
The remuneration, the Committee refers to the the STIP score for the relevant executives.
policy applying to our chairman and nonFTSE30 excluding financial services Further details on the approach to fatalities executive directors is set out at the end of the companies as the initial comparator group.
are provided in the Implementation Report.
The FTSE30 is considered the most Long-term focus Shareholders should note that this relevant comparator group as it largely Consistent with our strategy of investing in Remuneration Policy is binding only in so far as comprises organisations broadly and operating long-life, low-cost, expandable it relates to directors.
comparable to the Group in terms of global operations in the most attractive industry reach, revenue, market capitalisation and Our remuneration policies, sectors,  complexity.
References are also made to principles and practices that focus on longer-term performance.
other relevant supplementary comparator Our incentive plans are designed to Our first objective is to spend remuneration groups, including a cross-section of promote and reward decision-making with a resource wisely in pursuit of the comparable international industrial positive long-term impact while avoiding implementation of the Groups strategy.
We organisations and other international excessive risk.
want our pay policies to be regarded as fair by mining companies.
Although Fifty per cent of the STIP for executives is Typically we aim to position base salaries at we have remuneration structures which are fit deferred into shares which vest after the median of these comparator groups, for purpose, the Committee retains appropriate three years, through the Bonus Deferral while our incentive plans are designed with discretions, enabling it to override Plan BDP.
the potential to deliver total remuneration inappropriate mechanistic outcomes, if it outcomes across the full market range The performance-based options and shares thinks fit, but always within the confines of the according to business and individual awarded prior to 2013 have a three and Remuneration Policy.
The performance period for performance Benchmarking is undertaken periodically, Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 is but not annually, and our intention is to where it competes for a limited pool of talented five years.
However, as a transitional apply judgment in evaluating market data.
High-quality people, who are measure, awards granted in 2013 will We will take salary increases in the broader capable of achieving stretching performance potentially vest 50 per cent after four years employee population into account in targets, are essential to generating superior and 50 per cent after five years.
determining any change to the base pay of returns for the Group.
We normally use three-year Options are no longer granted, but existing strategies aim to provide this support by average exchange rates, in order to options may be exercised subject to their enabling the Group to attract and retain people mitigate the impact of exchange rate vesting conditions up to ten years after whose contribution will increase shareholder volatility, to help determine the their grant.
appropriate positioning of executive The Committee intends to keep the Groups We aim to engage our people over the long remuneration against internal and external long-term incentive arrangements under term by fostering diversity, providing comparators.
challenging work and development We regularly consult with shareholders on Shareholder alignment opportunities, and encouraging strong the design of our policies and programmes, delivery by good performance.
This people Our share ownership policy requires most recently on the subjects of the safety strategy is underpinned by our values of executives to build up and maintain a measure component of the STIP, the respect, integrity, teamwork and meaningful shareholding as described in the ceasing of the use of share options as a accountability and by our commitment to Implementation Report under the heading mechanism for long-term reward, and the provide sustainable growth and development Share ownership policy for executives.
performance conditions and the for both Rio Tinto and its employees.
We reward executives for delivering performance period for the Performance Our policy is based on the principle of aligning shareholder value by using relative TSR as one Share Plan PSP.
remuneration outcomes with the successful of the measures for our LTIP.
Employee share plans provide the delivery of strategy.
The remuneration opportunity for employees to participate For awards granted from 2013 under the strategy and the policies which support it, in the voting on executive remuneration.
PSP, a relative EBIT margin improvement together with a description of how we believe Employees who are shareholders measure has complemented the existing they will help Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are approximately 25 per cent of the workforce relative TSR measures, and incentivises set out below and under the heading at the time the Remuneration Policy was executives to deliver long-term shareholder Executive remuneration structure policy approved are able to vote on the value while maximising operational table.
Employees have performance in the medium term.
This structures are designed for other employees, not been consulted on the Remuneration comprises one-third of the total value drawing on these strategies and policies.
Policy but are free to ask any questions opportunity under the PSP awards.
Competitive, performance-related they wish and to offer any opinions they The reward opportunity under the remuneration have through our normal employee remaining portion of the PSP awards is communications channels.
We aim to provide competitive rewards that delivered based on relative TSR attract, retain and motivate executives of the performance against both the Euromoney Safety high calibre required to lead the Group, while Global Mining Index formerly the HSBC We have a strong focus on safety in the STIP ensuring that rewards remain appropriate and Global Mining Index and the broader targets.
proportionate when compared both to market market of large global companies as practice and to remuneration arrangements for As an organisation, we strive for superior measured through the Morgan Stanley other employees in the Group.
long-term shareholder value creation in a Capital World Index MSCI.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: PRODUCTION REMUNERATION POLICY The choice of both the Euromoney Global the value or reputation of a Rio Tinto Group Executive remuneration structure Mining Index and MSCI reflects the fact that company or for any other reason that the policy table Rio Tinto competes in a global market for Committee decides in a particular case.
The Committee seeks to achieve a investors as well as within the mining Malus and claw-back can be applied by the remuneration mix which best reflects the longsector.
It is consistent with rewarding Committee in relation to the STIP and its term nature of the business.
The total executives for providing stable returns over deferral into BDP.
The Committee evaluates remuneration package is therefore designed to the long term relative to the broader market the outcomes of the STIP for fairness with the provide an appropriate balance between fixed and the mining sector.
original targets and with shareholder and variable components, with an emphasis on Risk management malus and claw-back experience, and may make discretionary long-term variable pay.
The remuneration adjustments for executives using malus The Committee has authority under the structure for executives, including the principles as necessary.
Any such adjustments  relationship between each element of are disclosed in the Implementation Report for cancel awards made from 2013 in the event of remuneration and Group performance, is the relevant financial period.
gross misconduct which may have a material summarised below.
Further details on the key effect on the value or reputation of the Group, a performance indicators used to assess Group The Committee retains discretion with respect materially adverse error in the Groups or a performance are provided in the Strategic  product groups financial statements, report under the heading Key performance onwards prior to their vesting dates, such that exceptional events that have a materially indicators.
Shareholders should note that the if an executive resigns or is dismissed for detrimental impact on the value of any Group following remuneration structure is binding misconduct, or for any other reason that the company, or for any other reason that the only insofar as it relates to directors.
Committee decides in the event of an Committee decides in a particular case.
executive terminating their employment, BDP Any commitment made before this awards may be clawed back and The Committee also has authority under the Remuneration Policy takes effect or before consequently lapse.
claw-back provisions of the PSP to recover an executive became or becomes a director  will be honoured even if it is not consistent  2013 in the event of deliberate misconduct by a with this Remuneration Policy or any discretions more generally as described under participant that may have a material impact on subsequent policy.
Remuneration arrangements Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy Base salary Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
We pay competitive salaries to hire, Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum increase of nine per cent, or motivate and retain highly inflation if higher, per annum.
An increase may be higher than this for executives who competent people.
are not directors in the circumstances described below.
Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to the broader employee population unless there were significant changes to an individuals role and or responsibilities during the year.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors may be made in the event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where the executives salary is significantly below market positioning.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
Pension or Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, superannuation We provide locally competitive postsuperfund, or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or superannuation fund.
employment benefits in a costannuation The maximum level of Company contribution to an individual executive directors efficient manner in order to hire and schemes annually is 35 per cent of base salary.
Other benefits Other benefits include private healthcare cover for the executive and their We provide competitive other dependants, company car or allowance, car parking, life insurance, accident insurance, benefits in a cost-efficient manner to provision of Company-provided transport chauffeur, professional advice, participation hire and retain.
in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments may also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is no formal maximum level of Company contribution.
com 71 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Short Term If target performance is achieved under the STIP, the bonus opportunity is up to STIP focuses participants on Incentive Plan 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent of base achieving demanding annual STIP salary for other executives.
The award for achieving threshold performance is performance goals, which are based 50 per cent of the target bonus opportunity and the maximum bonus award for on the Groups KPIs, in pursuit of the outstanding performance is 200 per cent of base salary.
These percentages, with creation of sustainable shareholder the exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion value.
We demand that sustainable A scorecard of key performance indicators KPIs is established for each executive at business practices are adhered to, the commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative weightings particularly in the context of safety.
are selected by the Committee in order to drive business performance for the current When reviewing the outcome of the year, including the achievement of financial, safety and other individual business awards under the STIP the outcomes that are priorities for the financial year in question.
Committee will, when evaluating The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included either overall safety, financial, Group and prospectively or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The individual performance, consider the Committee retains flexibility to determine the measures, weightings and targets as overall fairness against original appropriate, based on the outcomes of its annual review.
expectations and shareholder We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the experience.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the Any discretionary adjustments for beginning of each year, disclose the measures and weightings only, because we  regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, we intend to disclose these Implementation Report for the targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be financial period.
prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why, and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
The central case or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year-end determination of STIP awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This sometimes results in adjustments to the targets being made by the Committee in particular to take account of events outside managements control, to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Bonus Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the The BDP ensures ongoing Deferral Plan remainder delivered in cash.
alignment between executives and BDP The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to shareholders through deferral of which it relates.
50 per cent of STIP awards into The number of BDP shares awarded is increased by reference to the dividends paid in Rio Tinto shares.
the deferral period before vesting.
BDP shares vest on a change of control.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: PRODUCTION REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Performance A new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
The PSP incorporates a simple Share Plan Awards under the new PSP have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary structure to align executive reward PSP ignoring dividend equivalents as described below.
with shareholder returns and business The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Willis Towers strategy, to help drive performance Watson since 1 August 2013 and Deloitte LLP previously to have an expected value of over a long-term horizon.
approximately 50 per cent of face value.
Expected value is face value adjusted for the Award levels are set to incentivise probability of the performance target being met.
executives to meet the long-term Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would result in strategic goals of the Group, to the vesting of 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
provide retention for the executive The maximum expected value that can be awarded under the PSP is 219 per cent of team and to contribute towards the base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
The threshold value is a maximum of competitiveness of the overall 98.6 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent.
Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the TSR rewards the delivery of superior Implementation Report.
returns to shareholders over the Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance long term.
conditions, comparing Rio Tintos performance against: EBIT margin improvement rewards One-third: TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index: sustained operational performance One-third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI : and of our business and the costOne-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining comparators competitive operation of our mining which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
assets, a core part of our strategy.
Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
Details of the TSR and How performance is generated is as EBIT margin measures targets and vesting schedules will be set out in the  Implementation Report each year.
With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in order performance is delivered.
Before to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been vesting, the Committee must appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis, satisfy itself that relative TSR and any specific, significant, unusual, below the line items eg impairments reported by EBIT margin performances are an Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine comparability appropriate reflection of the when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data currently S&P underlying performance of the Capital IQ.
The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
business, and can adjust The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the award vesting accordingly.
is considered by the Committee to be very stretching.
Awards will normally have a fiveIf, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive a year performance period to provide number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount long-term alignment with the of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have vested at the interests of shareholders.
end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
As a transitional measure, awards Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted to take account of variations of  capital and other transactions.
Subject to this policy, performance conditions may be after four years and 50 per cent after amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed five years.
performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied.
If the change of control happens during the first 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36 months period.
The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement of an acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend or waive performance conditions under the Plan rules.
As described under the malus and claw-back provisions set out earlier in this Policy Report,  vest malus or to recover the value of awards after vesting claw-back.
The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account of the overall performance of the Company during the performance period.
The long-term incentive awards made prior to 2013, and under which payments are still intended to be made should the relevant performance conditions be satisfied, can be paid out under this policy.
The details of the awards granted prior to 2013 which have yet to vest, including the details of the performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
com 73 56 13 13 32 13 45 13 13 5 3 21 34 10 10 8 4 34 18 9 73 54 14 14 3114 44 13 13 6 2 22 31 11 11 9 3 35 19 675 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Total remuneration opportunity executive directors at below threshold A, legislation requires that these charts are given threshold B, target C and outstanding in relation to the first year in which the The following charts provide an indication, D performance levels, together with the Remuneration Policy applies ie 2015.
The based on 2016 remuneration and the 2016 proportion of the package delivered through charts have been updated in 2016 to include PSP awards for the chief executive and 2015 fixed and variable remuneration.
The PSP, STIP the details for Jean-Sbastien Jacques who was remuneration and the 2015 PSP awards for the deferred shares BDP and STIP cash are all appointed chief executive effective 2 July 2016. chief financial officer, of what can be achieved performance-related remuneration.
UK under the Remuneration Policy for the Jean-Sbastien Jacques chief executive Chris Lynch chief financial officer Potential value of 2016 remuneration package Potential value of 2015 remuneration package 000 000 Key Key PSP PSP 6,418 7,915 STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares STIP cash STIP cash Pension Pension Benefits Benefits Base salary 3,952 Base salary 4,891 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum 2,461 B Threshold performance B Threshold performance 3,055 C On-target performance C On-target performance D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum 1,151 1,435 A B C D AB C D Proportion of the 2016 remuneration package value Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value delivered through fixed and variable remuneration delivered through fixed and variable remuneration % % Key Key PSP PSP STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares STIP cash STIP cash Pension Pension Benefits Benefits Fixed Fixed ] ] Base salary Base salary A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum B Threshold performance B Threshold performance C On-target performance C On-target performance D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum AB C D A B C D : Fixed stated in 000 shown as Base Total a b c column A above Salary Pension Benefits fixed Jean-Sbastien Jacques 1,080 270 85 1,435 Chris Lynch 836 208 107 1,151 a Base salary is the salary effective at the time the Remuneration Policy was approved, or in the case of Jean-Sbastien Jacques, the base salary on appointment as chief executive.
b The value of pension used for the chief executive is an estimate based on his new base salary as chief executive for a full year.
c The value of benefits for the chief executive is an estimate based on a full year as chief executive.
The value of benefits for the chief financial officer is as per the benefits figure in the single figure of remuneration tables for 2014, as set out in the Implementation Report.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRODUCTION Performance-related At risk 200 per cent of base salary under the STIP and a a maximum award of 438 per cent of base Threshold STIP and LTIP performance A STIP award of 50% of the target STIP salary under the PSP.
shown as column B above opportunity, ie 60% of base salary Threshold vesting of the PSP award at 22.5% of In the event that an internal appointment is face value, calculated as 90% of face value for the made, existing commitments will be honoured.
chief executive 2016 award and 96.8% of base If the Committee concludes that it is necessary salary for the chief financial officer 2015 award and appropriate to secure an appointment, Target STIP and LTIP performance A STIP award of 100% of the target STIP relocation-related support and international shown as column C above opportunity, ie 120% of base salary mobility benefits may also be provided Expected value of the PSP award of 50% of face depending on the circumstances.
value, calculated as 200% of base salary for the chiefexecutive 2016award and215%ofbase Any relocation arrangements will be set out in salary for the chief financial officer 2015 award the Implementation Report.
Outstanding STIP and LTIP performance A maximum STIP award of 200% of base salary  Maximum shown as column D above Full vesting of the PSP award, calculated as 400% recruited from outside the Group for the of base salary for the chief executive 2016 forfeiture of any award under variable award and 430% of base salary for the chief remuneration arrangements entered into with financial officer 2015 award  to the establishment of forward looking annual a Long-term incentives consist of share awards only, measured at 2016 face value for the chief executive and 2015 face remuneration arrangements.
Our policy with value for the chief financial officer.
This does not constitute an estimate of the value of awards that may potentially vest with respect to year end 31 December 2016 for the chief executive or 31 December 2015 for the chief financial officer.
No respect to such buy-outs is to determine a assumption has been made for changes in share price or payment of dividends.
reasonable level of award, on a like-for-like basis, of primarily equity-based, but also potentially cash or restricted stock, taking into Context for outstanding performance consider the overall shareholder experience consideration the quantum of forfeited awards, during the performance period in question.
Demanding performance targets are designed their performance conditions and vesting to ensure that the level of remuneration is It is the Committees intention that the schedules.
The Committee will obtain an aligned with performance delivered for mechanistic outcome of performance conditions independent external assessment of the value shareholders.
relating to awards made under such plans will of awards proposed to be bought out and routinely be subject to review to avoid outcomes retains discretion, subject to the above, to Outstanding business and individual which could be seen as contrary to make such compensation as it deems performance is required to achieve the shareholders expectations.
To the extent necessary and appropriate to secure the maximum level of remuneration.
This provided for in the terms of any performance relevant executives employment.
The comprises: condition or in accordance with any relevant Committees intention is that buy-out amendment power under the plan rules, the outstanding performance against all compensation should include, where Committee may adjust and or set different financial, health and safety, and individual appropriate, performance-tested equity.
performance measures if events occur such as STIP measures: No form of golden hello will be provided a change in strategy, a material acquisition or TSR outperformance against both the upon recruitment.
divestment, a change in control or unexpected Euromoney Global Mining and MSCI indices event which cause the Committee to determine by six per cent per annum over five years: Executives service contracts and that the measures are no longer appropriate or and termination in the best interests of shareholders, and that EBIT margin improvement equal to or the amendment is required so that the The Committee will seek to honour any greater than the second ranked company in measures achieve their original purpose.
commitments made in respect of termination the comparator group over five years.
Committee discretion should not operate as an of employment in the executive directors automatic override, and it must be exercised The intention of the Committee is that if these service contracts predating this Remuneration judiciously.
levels of reward are achieved by our executives Policy which are described in this section.
This To the extent that discretion is applied in any then shareholders will benefit over time from section also sets out Rio Tintos policy on year, the Committee undertakes that this will be superior share price performance.
termination payments and notice periods.
clearly explained and disclosed to shareholders Shareholders are reminded that such policy is Discretions in the Implementation Report.
binding only in so far as it relates to directors.
Recruitment remuneration The Committee recognises the importance of For new appointments where the Company ensuring that the outcomes of the Groups Our approach to recruitment remuneration for terminates by making a payment in lieu of executive pay arrangements described in this executives both external and internal is set out notice, the Committee will for executive Remuneration Policy properly reflect the below.
Shareholders are reminded that the directors to the extent permitted by relevant Groups overall performance and the experience following principles are binding only in so far as law have regard to the executive directors of its shareholders and other stakeholders over they relate to the recruitment of directors.
ability to mitigate his loss in assessing the the performance period.
level, taking into consideration a range of factors The Committee undertakes to owners that it will The executive directors may have or may be including an executives current remuneration, exercise discretion diligently and in a manner offered service contracts which can be experience, internal relativities, an assessment that is aligned with our strategy to create longterminated by either party with up to against relevant comparator groups and cost.
12 months notice in writing, or immediately by Other elements of remuneration will be paying the base salary only in lieu of any Accordingly, when reviewing the operation of established in line with the Remuneration Policy unexpired notice.
An initial notice period of up short and long-term incentive plans and the set out earlier in this Policy Report in the to 24 months during the first two years of , the executive remuneration structure table.
As employment, reducing to up to 12 months Committee will, when evaluating safety, such, annual variable remuneration for new thereafter, may sometimes be necessary to financial, Group and individual performance, appointees will comprise a maximum award of secure an external appointment.
In some 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 75 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued circumstances, it may also be appropriate to with the terms of the service contract, for Bonus Deferral Plan BDP 2013 onwards use fixed-term contracts for executive example, payment for financial advice, tax  directors.
advice and preparation of tax returns for a tax including 2013, awards will normally be year.
Insomecases,  retained and vest at the scheduled vesting Other executives can be offered service retirement gift.
date,  contracts which can be terminated by the otherwise.
There will be no pro rata reduction Company with up to 12 months notice in The Company may pay such amount as it of awards and any dividend equivalent shares writing, and by the employee with six months determines is reasonable to settle any claims will be calculated on the vested shares.
notice in writing, or immediately by the which in the Committees view are legitimate Company by paying the base salary only in lieu which the executive director may have in  of any unexpired notice.
connection with the termination of his misconduct, or for any other reason that the employment.
The Company may also pay Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
The current contract terms of both directors reasonable legal and other professional fees a and the other executives are included in the BDP pre-2013 including outplacement support to or in Implementation Report.
 respect of a director in connection with the 2013, awards will normally vest at the Executives may be required to undertake termination of his employment.
These may  garden leave during all or part of their notice include legal fees incurred by him in Committee determines otherwise.
There will be period and may receive their contractual salary, negotiating a settlement agreement with no pro rata reduction of awards and any STIP and benefits during the notice period or Rio Tinto.
In assessing what is reasonable, the dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the cash equivalent.
Where applicable, tax Company will take account of prevailing rates the vested shares.
equalisation and other expatriate benefits will for such advice and support and determine continue in accordance with the executives appropriate level of contribution based on the If an executive leaves the Group for any other prevailing terms and conditions.
In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company Treatment of STIP and LTIP on For any BDP award, where required by law or can terminate employment without notice and regulation, and where the Remuneration termination without payment of any salary or compensation Committee so decides, cash may be provided in The STIP and share plan rules govern the in lieu of notice.
Deferred bonus shares and lieu of shares.
entitlements that executive participants may outstanding awards under the LTIP may be PSP 2013 onwards have under those plans upon termination forfeited in these circumstances.
 Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long including 2013, awards will normally be The concept of an eligible leaver is defined in service leave will be paid out on termination, in retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting the relevant Plan rules.
In general terms, an accordance with the relevant country date.
Unvested awards remain subject to the eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the legislation and applicable practice applying to satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability all employees.
For eligible leavers as defined Any dividend equivalent shares will be as determined by the executives employer : below,  calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
retirement: redundancy: transfer of the calculated on the basis of base salary, target undertaking in which the executive works: If the executive leaves the Group during the STIP and car allowance.
No STIP is included change of control of the executives employing first 36 months from the date of grant of the where the executive is not an eligible leaver.
company: or death: and usually there is a award, the number of shares that can vest will If termination is a result of redundancy, the discretion for the Remuneration Committee to be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
terms of the relevant local policy may apply in treat an executive as an eligible leaver.
Awards will vest immediately on death, but if the same way as for other local employees.
Short Term Incentive Plan STIP an executive dies during the first 36 months On termination, the Company will pay , the If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a relocation or expatriation benefits as agreed on number of shares that can vest will be reduced performance year, the Committee may the original expatriation and or in accordance pro rata over that 36-month period.
determine in its absolute discretion to award a with its applicable policies on travel and pro rata portion of the STIP based on the  relocation.
For example, Sam Walsh is provided amount of the year served and based on actual misconduct, or for any other reason that the with expatriation benefits and allowances and assessment of performance against targets.
Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
on termination of his employment by the Any cash payment will be made at the normal Company repatriation expenses would be paid.
a PSP pre-2013 STIP payment date and no portion of the award will be deferred into shares.
 On termination other than for cause, the 2013, awards will normally be retained and Company may make a payment in If an executive provides the Company notice of vest at the scheduled vesting date, although consideration for entry by the departing their resignation during the performance year, the Committee may determine that awards executive director into appropriate restrictive but does not leave the Group until after the end should vest early.
Unvested awards remain covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its of the performance year, the Committee may subject to the satisfaction of the performance shareholders.
The amount of such payment will determine in its absolute discretion to make an conditions.
be determined by the Committee based on the award under the STIP.
In these circumstances, content and duration of the covenant.
the executive will only be eligible to receive the Awards vest immediately on death.
The cash portion of the award and will forfeit the number of shares vesting is determined on the Following termination, executive directors may deferred shares portion.
Any cash payment will assumption that performance conditions are be eligible to exercise longterm incentives be made at the normal STIP payment date.
met at median level or at the level to which awards under the conditions described in the they are actually satisfied at the date of death, sections following.
They and their dependants No STIP award will be made where an executive if higher.
If an executive leaves the Group for may also be eligible for post-retirement who is not an eligible leaver leaves the Group, any other reason, awards will lapse.
benefits such as medical and life insurance.
resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the The Company may also agree to continue end of the performance year.
For any PSP award, where permitted by the certain other benefits for a period following Plan Rules, and where the Remuneration termination where the arrangements are Committee so decides, awards may be made in provided under term contracts or in accordance cash in lieu of shares.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: PRODUCTION REMUNERATION POLICY a Share Option Plan SOP pre-2013 pays any tax arising on the chairmans behalf.
Appointment The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the  The appointment of non-executive directors Company for the personal travel element.
Ifthe including the chairman is handled through executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards the Nominations Committee and board Other benefits provided include private  processes.
The current fee levels are set out in healthcare cover, accident insurance note this leaves the Group and unvested awards will the Implementation Report.
is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit,  other minor benefits including modest Details of each element of remuneration paid longer period as permitted by the Committee.
retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, to the chairman and non-executive directors  occasional spouse travel in support of the are set out in the Implementation Report in under the SOP which remain subject to the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses table 1b.
which are deemed to be taxable where the The chairmans letter of appointment from the Company has paid the tax on his behalf.
Awards vest in full on death.
Company stipulates his duties as chairman of Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or postIf an executive leaves the Group for any other the Group.
His appointment may be terminated employment benefits to the chairman.
reason, unvested awards and vested awards without liability on the part of Rio Tinto in Non-executive directors that have not been exercised will lapse.
accordance with the Groups constitutional Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect documents dealing with retirement, a Management Share Plan MSP their respective duties and responsibilities and disqualification from office or other vacation   from office.
Otherwise, his appointment may be executives prior to their appointment as an make a meaningful and effective contribution terminated by giving 12 months notice.
All retained to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
are no provisions for compensation payable on awards will be reduced pro rata to reflect the termination of his appointment, other than if The non-executive directors fees and other proportion of the period between the date of his appointment as chairman is terminated by terms are set by the board upon the grant of the award and the normal vesting date reason of his removal as a director pursuant to recommendation of the Chairmans Committee which has not elapsed at the time employment a resolution of shareholders in general meeting which comprises the chairman, chief executive ceased.
Any dividend equivalent shares or cash in which case the Company shall be liable to and chief financial officer.
equivalent will be calculated on the vested pay any fees accrued to the date of any shares.
Awards vest on death, subject to the Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual such removal.
pro rata reduction described above.
fee comprising a base fee, committee The non-executive directors letters of membership or committee chairmanship fee or  appointment from the Company stipulate their senior independent director fee, as applicable, including 2013, awards will normally be duties and responsibilities as directors.
Each and allowances for attending meetings which retained, and vest, at the Committees non-executive director is appointed subject to involve medium or long-distance air travel.
discretion, at the scheduled vesting date their election and annual re-election by They do not participate in any of the Groups although awards of US taxpayers may vest shareholders.
appointments may be terminated by giving Where the payment of statutory minimum threemonthsnotice.
Therearenoprovisions If the executive resigns or is dismissed for superannuation contributions for Australian for compensation payable on termination of misconduct, or for any other reason that the non-executive directors is required by their appointment.
The letters of appointment Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
Australian superannuation law, these are available for inspection at Rio Tinto plcs Chairman and non-executive contributions are deducted from the directors registered office, and at its annual directors remuneration overall fee entitlements.
Chairman Non-executive directors may on occasion In accordance with the provisions of the It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should receive reimbursement for costs incurred in Groups constitutional documents, the be remunerated on a competitive basis and at a relation to the provision of professional advice.
maximum aggregate fees payable to the level which reflects his contribution to the These payments, if made, are taxable benefits non-executive directors including the Group, as assessed by the board.
to the non-executive directors and the tax chairman in respect of any year, including arising is paid by the Company on the fees received by the nonexecutive directors The Committee determines the terms of directors behalf.
for serving on any committee of the boards, service, including remuneration, of the and any travel allowances received by the chairman.
The chairmans fees are set by the Other benefits provided include accident non-executive directors for attending Committee.
The chairman has no part in the insurance note this is neither contractual meetings, will not exceed 3,000,000. setting of his fees and is not present at any nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits Non-monetary benefits are not included in discussion at the Committee about his fees.
including modest retirement gifts in applicable this limit.
circumstances, occasional spouse travel in The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and support of the business and any Rio Tinto does not receive any additional fee or business expenses which are deemed to be allowance either for committee membership or taxable where the Company has paid the tax chairmanship, or for travel.
The chairman does on their behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay not participate in the Groups incentive plans.
retirement or post-employment benefits to The chairman is provided with a car and driver.
Any use for transport between home and the office and other personal travel is a taxable benefit to the chairman, and the Company a All awards granted under pre-2013 plans or in the case of the MSP, awards granted prior to 2014, have now vested.
