Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRS ANNUALSTATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, On behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
This report sets out the remuneration policy for the directors of RPC and discloses amounts paid to them over the course of the financial year and proposed remuneration for the forthcoming year.
This report complies with the 2006 Act, the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations, the Code and the Listing Rules and consists of three parts: This Annual Statement: The Directors Remuneration policy report the Policy report, which, subject to shareholder approval, will be effective from the AGM on 13 July 2016: and The Annual report on remuneration the ARR including this Annual Statement provides details of the remuneration earned by directors in the year ended 31 March 2016 and how the policy will be implemented for the year ending 31 March 2017.
This will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN 2015 16 As set out in the Strategic Report, the year under review has seen significant progress towards the Vision 2020 strategy.
Substantial increases were seen in revenue 34%, adjusted PBT 35% and adjusted earnings per share 14%, through both organic and acquisition-led growth.
The integration of Promens and the other recent acquisitions continue to go well, with cost synergies already being realised and further savings identified.
The performance against the stretching adjusted PBIT target under the RPC Group Annual Bonus Plan ABP resulted in a bonus of 97% of the maximum opportunity being payable to the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2016.
In addition, the free cash flow and ROCE moderators were also achieved.
Awards under the Performance Share Plan 2008 PSP that were made in July 2013 will vest in full in July 2016.
This is based on performance over the three year period up to and including 31 March 2016, in respect of the Earnings per Share EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance targets being fully achieved.
The Committee is satisfied that the total variable pay outcome is a fair reflection of corporate and individual performance throughout 2016.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2016 17 As highlighted in last years report, the Committee has reviewed the Policy which has been in place since April 2013 albeit formally approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Over the last 3 years, the Company has evolved from a traditional packaging business to a leading product design and engineering company.
The transformation of the business can be seen most noticeably when comparing growth over the last three years in revenue 57%, adjusted operating profit 73%, number of employees 108%, and number of production 133% locations.
At the same time there have been a number of developments in corporate governance and best practice in relation to executive remuneration.
While the Committee noted that a significant proportion of the current policy works well and should therefore be retained, a number of changes were considered necessary to ensure that the remuneration packages were competitive and the highly regarded executive team rewarded fairly.
Given the extent of the changes proposed, the Committee undertook a comprehensive consultation process with the largest 15 shareholders and representative bodies.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders for their constructive feedback, which the Committee considered and which helped formulate the final policy that is being put to shareholders for approval.
The revised policy is set out in full on pages 61 to 66 but in summary the key changes are: Phased increases to base salary levels from 1 April 2016 and 1 April 2017 with the second increase subject to continued individual and Group performance.
No changes will be made to benefit or pension provision: An increase in maximum annual bonus potential from 100% of salary to 125% of salary.
The use of sliding scale profit-based targets with ROCE and cashflow downward moderators and the deferral of 50% of any bonus awarded into shares for three years will be retained.
The Company will continue to set challenging targets and disclose them in full, retrospectively: An increase in long-term incentive provision to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
The combination of stretching EPS and relative TSR targets will be retained although a return measure will also be introduced: RPC Group Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRS ANNUALSTATEMENT continued Enhanced shareholder protections alignment for executive directors: Withholding and recovery provisions will be strengthened across both annual and long-term incentive plans: Shareholding guidelines whereby the executive directors are encouraged to acquire and maintain a holding of RPC shares will be increased from 100% to200% of their salary: A two year post vesting holding period will be introduced from the 2016 PSP awards onwards: Dividend equivalent provisions will be introduced in respect of any awards made under the RPC Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and PSP awards granted after the 2016 AGM.
Where necessary these changes will be reflected in the rules of the Groups incentive arrangements.
In particular shareholders will be asked to approve the amendments to the rules of the PSP to allow for the award of dividend equivalent sums in respect of awards that vest.
Corresponding amendments are to be made to the Companys DBP, subject to the approval of the policy at the AGM: All amendments are highlighted in the copy of the PSP and DBP rules that are on display as described in the notes to the Notice of AGM: If approved, the amendments to the PSP will apply to awards granted on or after 13 July 2016: The proposed changes reflect the Committees desire to set competitive pay levels which reflect the size, scope and level of responsibility to the enlarged Group, with a strong alignment between the management team and our shareholders by placing a greater emphasis upon performance related pay and ensuring that sufficient shareholder protections are in place to ensure that individuals are appropriately incentivised and rewarded.
As a Committee, we believe that these changes are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and will promote long-term, sustainable success in the future.
In the meantime the Committee is keen to maintain an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and looks forward to your support at this years AGM inrespect of: Approving the new policy and amendments required to be made to the PSP rules : and How the existing remuneration policy has been operated in the year ended 31 March 2016 and how the new policy, subject to shareholder approval, willbeoperated over the next 12 months.
Yours sincerely, L Drummond Chair of the Remuneration Committee 2 June 2016 LYNN DRUMMOND Chair of the Remuneration Committee Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
During the year the Committee completed a thorough review of the remuneration policy for executive directors and other designated senior executives in light of the significant changes in size and scope of the business.
As a result of this review the Committee intends to make a number of changes to the policy.
In the following section we set out the revised Policy Report, with further details on how the existing and proposed policy will be implemented for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 and the year ahead set out in the Annual report on page 67.
The Policy Report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM held on 13 July 2016 and is intended to apply for three years.
As in prior years, the Annual report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES The objective of our remuneration policy is to attract, retain and incentivise a high calibre of senior management who can direct the business and deliver the Groups core objective of growth in shareholder value by building a business that is capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing cash flows.
To achieve this objective, executive directors and senior executives receive remuneration packages with elements of fixed and variable pay.
Fixed pay elements basic salary, pension arrangements and other benefits are set at a level to recognise the experience, contribution and responsibilities of the individuals and to take into consideration the level of remuneration available from a range of the Groups broader competitors.
Variable pay elements annual bonus arrangements and PSP awards are set at a level to provide an incentive to executive directors and executive management todeliver outstanding performance in line with the Groups strategic objectives.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS A comprehensive consultation exercise was held with major shareholders and representative bodies in 2016 in respect of the proposed changes to remuneration policy and their views were incorporated when drafting the final policy.
The Committee will continue to engage pro-actively with shareholders and ensure that shareholders are consulted in advance and their views considered, where any material changes to the remuneration policy are proposed.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP In determining the remuneration of the Groups directors, the Committee takes into account the pay arrangements and terms and conditions across the Group as a whole.
Whilst employees were not directly consulted, the Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles which form the basis for decisions on directors pay are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest of the workforce are taken.
In particular the changes proposed to the remuneration policy were considered as part of a broader exercise to ensure a consistent approach is taken across the senior management population.
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the executive directors and other senior employees, which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Company.
The key differences in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees across the Group are the increased emphasis on performance related pay and the inclusion of a share-based PSP for executive directors.
The PSP is not granted to employees outside of the most senior executives as they are reserved for those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence Group level performance.
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY ORIGINALLY APPROVED AT THE 2014 AGM The revised policy, if approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, incorporates the following changes from the existing policy: Increase in annual bonus maximum from 100% of salary to 125% of salary Increase in the normal PSP grant level of 125% of salary to the current 200% of salary exceptional grant level with no exceptional limit operated going forward Increase in shareholding requirement from 100% to 200% of salary Introduction of a two year post-vesting holding period for PSP awards granted from 2016 onwards Introduction of dividend equivalents on DBP and PSP awards to the extent that awards ultimately vest Enhanced recovery and withholding provisions, to be applied consistently across all variable incentives.
RPC Group Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY continued KEY ELEMENTS OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS Set out below is a summary of the main elements of the remuneration policy for directors, together with further information on how these aspects of remuneration operate.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Basic salary Attract and motivate the best candidate for Reviewed annually and normally fixed for 12 months from 1 April.
Takes into consideration: There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum annual increase.
The Committee is guided by the general None the role.
increase for the Companys UK employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, an responsibilities, abilities, experience and performance of an individual: increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role.
Current salary levels are disclosed on page 70.
Reflects an individuals skills, experience, role the Groups salary and pay structures: and and responsibilities.
pay and conditions for the Groups employees in the relevant country.
Salaries are benchmarked periodically against companies of a similar size and complexity.
Benefits To provide market consistent benefits.
Directors may receive a car or car allowance, private health insurance, disability, death benefits and No prescribed maximum limit.
For benefit values for the year under review, see page 70.
None certain travel accommodation allowances.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate including the reimbursement of any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon.
Contribution may be made to the Groups defined contribution pension plan and or a salary supplement may Company contribution limited to 20% of basic salary.
None be provided e. g. where HMRC limits would be exceeded.
Bespoke pension arrangements may also be offered as per Pim Vervaats current arrangements where considered appropriate.
ABP DBP Drives and rewards the achievement of the Targets renewed annually as part of the budgeting process.
Maximum of 125% of basic salary for achievement of stretching targets.
Performance normally measured over one year.
Performance metrics short-term corporate objectives.
will be primarily related to sliding-scale profit-based targets although Bonus level is determined by the Committee after the year end, based on achievement against other metrics e. g. cash flow, ROCE and health & safety may apply to The deferred element encourages long-term performance targets.
part of the bonus or operate as a bonus moderator.
shareholding and aids retention whilst 50% of the bonus is normally paid in cash under the ABP: the remaining 50% is normally paid as deferred discouraging excessive risk-taking.
shares under the DBP which are held for 3 years subject to continued employment.
An exceptional negative event provision operates.
Both the cash and deferred bonus are subject to recovery and withholding provisions.
Dividend equivalents may be payable to the extent that deferred share awards vest under the DBP.
PSP Incentivises directors to achieve sustained Awards over shares are normally made annually under the PSP with vesting dependent on continued 200% of salary.
Normally based on a 3 year performance period.
returns for shareholders, rewards the employment and the achievement of performance conditions over three years.
Financial targets e. g. EPS.
return-based measures and or share achievement of the corporate strategy over the From 2016, awards to executive directors are subject to a two year holding period for the net of tax shares price related measures e. g. TSR.
Up to 20% of an award vests at threshold performance increasing The Committee reviews the quantum of awards annually and monitors the continuing suitability of the tofull vesting at maximum performance.
Dividend equivalents may be payable to the extent that awards vest.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply.
All-Employee Encourages long-term shareholding in the Executives are eligible to participate in any UK or International Sharesave or any other All-Employee Share Executives are eligible to participate on the same terms as other employees.
For the UK Sharesave this is Commitment to a savings contract and continuing employment with Sharesave Company and commitment to the Company.
Scheme, on the same terms as other eligible employees.
in accordance with the prescribed HMRC limits at the time.
The International Sharesave allows overseas the Group over the vesting period.
Scheme employees to participate on terms that are no more beneficial than those for UK participants.
Awards may be granted in line with the rules of the respective plan.
Sharesave Any new all-employee plan will be operated in accordance with the relevant tax authority limits and those set out in the plan rules.
Shareholding Encourages long-term shareholding in the Requirement to retain a minimum of 50% of the net of tax shares vesting under a PSP award until the required 200% of basic salary for executive directors.
None guidelines Company to provide alignment between shareholding is achieved.
Non-executive Reflects time commitments and responsibilities Base fee for Chairman and non-executive directors.
No maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
None directors fees of each role.
Additional fees may be payable in relation to extra responsibilities undertaken such as, but not limited to Fee increases for non-executive directors may be above the level of increases awarded to the wider Reflects fees paid by similarly sized companies.
chairing a Board Committee or a Senior Independent Director role.
workforce, reflecting the periodic nature of the increases and if there is an increase in the time commitment or responsibility level: or where fees have fallen significantly below market against similar roles at Fees are normally paid in cash on a monthly basis.
Fees are reviewed periodically, with any increases effective from 1 April.
Current fee levels are set out on page 69.
Reimbursement of any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Opportunity Performance metrics and period Basic salary Attract and motivate the best candidate for Reviewed annually and normally fixed for 12 months from 1 April.
RPC Group Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY continued PERFORMANCE METRICS The Committee has given careful consideration to the performance measures applicable to both the ABP and the PSP.
ABP The ABP is primarily based on profit-based measures currently adjusted profit before interest and tax which the Committee believes appropriately rewards directors for growing the business whilst maintaining a suitable profit margin.
As a result of the Committees desire to further align management performance with the Companys key objectives, bonus moderators may operate to reduce pay-outs for failure to achieve targeted levels in certain areas.
The Committee reviews performance measures and targets on an annual basis and ensures they remain aligned with the Groups strategic objectives at that time.
As such the performance measures, weightings or use of moderators may be updated at the start of each year.
The Committee retains discretion over the calculation of performance targets and the moderators in order to appropriately adjust for any material one-off items including but not limited to major acquisitions and changes in accounting policies.
PSP PSP performance measures incentivise sustained growth in financial performance currently adjusted EPS and the generation of TSR.
As with the ABP, the performance measures and weightings for the PSP are reviewed before each award is granted.
The Committee may introduce or reweight performance measures to reflect the Groups strategic objectives ahead of each performance cycle.
The current use of an adjusted EPS measure appropriately captures the impact of managements decisions and actions in areas such as production efficiency, margin improvement and efficient use of financial resources.
TSR is a clear indicator of the relative success of the Group in delivering shareholder value and, as a performance measure, firmly aligns the interests of directors and shareholders.
The EPS target range will be assessed annually and will normally be based on outperformance of a relevant inflation index.
Performance against the targets will be independently calculated and reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee retains discretion over the calculation of financial figures in order to appropriately adjust for any material one-off items including but not limited to major acquisitions, changes in accounting policies and major share issues.
RECOVERY AND WITHHOLDING PROVISIONS Recovery and withholding provisions will be operated in relation to the ABP and PSP.
The Committee will have the ability to recoup or withhold payment in the following scenarios: Material misstatement Gross misconduct Material error in calculation Exceptional adverse event The recovery period will be three years post vesting or payment.
DISCRETION The Committee operates share plans in accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of certain plans.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy report authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual report as they arise.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 ILLUSTRATION OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The balance of the potential remuneration package available for executive directors is weighted towards variable pay elements, which have stretching performance targets attached to them.
The chart below shows the value of the executive directors packages under three performance scenarios, minimum, on-target and maximum: Basic Salary, Benets & Pension Annual Bonus PSP Award 3,000 2,643 2,750 2,500 2,250 44% 2,000 1,687 1,528 1,750 35% 1,500 41% 1,250 988 28% 22% 1,000 731 32% 30% 750 448 23% 500 100% 43% 28% 100% 45% 29% 250 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum P R M Vervaat S J Kesterton 1 Salary levels are based on those applying from 1 April 2016.
3 Pension cost is estimated at 20% of annual basic salary applicable at 1 April 2016.
4 For illustrative purposes only and in the interests of simplicity, the target opportunity under the ABP and PSP have both been assumed to be 50% of the maximum values see below.
5 The maximum bonus opportunity is 125% of base salary.
6 The maximum value of awards under the PSP is taken to be 100% of the face value of the award at grant i. e. 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
7 No share price appreciation has been assumed for the awards under the DBP and PSP.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT AND PROMOTIONS The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys prevailing approved remuneration policy at the time of appointment and take into account the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for a candidate of that experience and the importance of securing the relevant individual.
Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract the most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at a below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance has been proven and sustained.
The annual bonus potential would be limited to 125% of salary and would be pro-rated for the period of service rendered.
Depending on the timing and nature of the appointment, it may be necessary for the Committee to set different performance measures to the existing executive directors for the remainder of the first bonus year.
Grants under the PSP would normally be limited to 200% of salary and may be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a prohibited period.
In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based awards to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer.
The Committee would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards would be consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
For an internal executive director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
For an overseas appointment the Committee will have the ability to offer benefits and pension provision which reflect local market practice and relevant legislation.
000s RPC Group Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY continued SERVICE CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Contractual Provisions The Committee determines the terms of the service contract for each executive director and the Companys policy is that service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree which is subject to a maximum of 9 months notice by the employer and 6 months by the director.
The service contracts contain provision for early termination payments in lieu of salary with the ability to phase payments and mitigate such payments if alternative employment is obtained.
A directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
If the employing company terminates the employment of an executive director in breach of contract, compensation is limited to basic salary due for any unexpired notice period.
Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable.
The following table shows details of the service contracts for the current executive directors and those who held office during the year ended 31 March 2016: Notice Required from Group Notice Required from Individual Name Commencement Date months months Pim Vervaat 1 May 2013 9 6 Simon Kesterton 1 April 2013 9 6 The default treatment under all incentive plans is that they will lapse on cessation of employment.
However in certain prescribed circumstances including death, disability, ill-health, injury, redundancy, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee good leaver status may be applied.
For good leavers in respect of the ABP, a bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the financial year worked, although it will be pro-rated for time and paid fully in cash at the normal pay out date whilst awards held under the DBP will normally vest in full on the date employment is ceased.
For good leavers in respect of the PSP, awards will generally vest on their normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions at that time and will usually be reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served unless the Committee determines that the time prorating should not be applied.
The Committee also has discretion to determine that awards may vest earlier based on performance to this date and that such awards may be pro-rated for the performance period actually served unless the Committee determines that the time pro-rating should not be applied.
The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
Any statutory entitlements will be paid as required and the Committee retains the ability to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment if considered in the best interests of the Company.
Other Appointments The Board recognises that executive directors may be offered external non-executive directorship positions, which would broaden their skills and experience.
Executive directors are permitted to accept an external non-executive position subject to the Boards approval, taking into account any potential conflicts of interest and expected time commitments.
Any fees earned will normally be retained by the executive director.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office.
They are appointed for fixed terms of three years renewable for further three-year terms if both parties agree and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive directors: Name Appointment date Date most recent term commenced Expected date of expiry of current term Jamie Pike 23.07.08 23.07.14 22.07.17 Lynn Drummond 16.07.14 16.07.14 15.07.17 Heike van fide Kerkhof 24.11.15 24.11.15 23.11.18 Martin Towers 01.04.09 01.04.15 31.03.18 Godwin Wong 16.07.14 16.07.14 15.07.17 The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of non-executive directors based on the recommendations of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Non-executive directors receive directors fees only and do not participate in any bonus or sharebased incentive schemes.
The total value of directors fees that may be paid is limited to 500,000 p. a. by the Companys Articles.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION THE ROLE AND COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The members of the Committee and its Chairman during the year and up to the date of this report are as follows: From To Stephan Rojahn Chairman until retirement on 15.07.15 25.05.06 15.07.15 Lynn Drummond Chair from 15.07.15 25.03.15 To date Ilona Haaijer 30.05.12 13.05.15 Heike van fide Kerkhof 24.11.15 To date Martin Towers 01.04.09 To date Lynn Drummond became Chair of the Committee following the retirement of Stephan Rojahn with effect from the end of the AGM held on 15 July 2015.
Ilona Haaijer retired from the Board and its Committees on 13 May 2015.
Heike van fide Kerkhof joined the Committee on 24 November 2015.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of other executive directors and designated senior executives and, when appropriate, are invited by the Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The role of the Committee is set out in its terms of reference which can be found on the Groups website.
The Committee meets at least twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 49.
The Committees principal responsibilities are: setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval, the Groups overall remuneration policy for the Chairman, executive directors and certain senior executives: reviewing and approving individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, executive directors and certain senior executives: reviewing and approving service contracts for executive directors including notice periods and terms for cessation of employment: and reviewing the rules, approving new grants and setting the performance conditions of any Group share or cash based incentive schemes and reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and where appropriate shareholders.
During the year, New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc, was engaged by the Committee to provide it with remuneration consultancy services.
These services were provided to the Committee independently of pension consultancy, accounting and actuarial advice that Aon plc provides through Aon Hewitt Limited and associated companies.
The terms of engagement between the Company and NBS are available from the Company Secretary on request.
Fees charged by NBS for advice provided to the Committee for the year ended 31 March 2016 were 81,721.
REMUNERATION REVIEW As noted in the Annual Statement and Policy Report, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of executive remuneration during the year ended 31 March 2016.
The current policy has been in place since Pim Vervaat and Simon Kesterton were appointed as the respective Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of RPC in 2013.
Over this period, the Group has made strong progress in respect of delivering the Vision 2020 Focused Growth Strategy focusing on organic growth through innovation, selective consolidation in Europe, creating a meaningful presence outside of Europe and pursuing added value opportunities in non-packaging markets and continues to do so.
Following the successful acquisition and integration of ACE, Promens, M&H Group, PET Power, Helioplast, Depicton, Innocan, GCS, Strata and JP Plast, the Group is now significantly larger and more complicated, having operations in 29 countries 15 in 2013 with 112 manufacturing locations 48 in 2013 and has more than doubled the number of employees from circa 7,000 to over 18,000.
Over the same period, TSR since 1 May 2013 has increased more than 150%.
Although excluded from the numbers above and the proposals set out in the following section, it is expected that the Vision 2020 strategy will be further progressed by the acquisition of GCS in March 2016 which will add an additional circa 600m of turnover, 23 manufacturing facilities with 3,000 employees whilst further extending the geographic coverage of the Group.
Given the substantial changes to the focus, size, global spread and complexity of the Group and the responsibilities of the executive directors, as reflected above, and developments in corporate governance and best practice since the Policy was agreed in 2013, the Committee has considered it necessary to reconsider if the policy remained fit for purpose.
The outcome of the policy review and the changes for the following three year period are set out in the Policy Report.
How they intend to be operated in practice isset out in the following section.
RPC Group Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 MARCH 2017 The Committee considered external market data provided by two independent sources.
Since there are no direct comparators of a similar size, a number of data points were considered to replicate the pay levels in companies of a similar size based on turnover, market capitalisation, complexity reflecting number of locations for production, manufacturing and end markets and other companies in a similar sector.
This data was used cautiously and formed just one part of a broader exercise which also took into account internal relativities, the size and scope of the roles following both organic growth and recent acquisitions, local and global inflationary pressures and the pay conditions in the wider workforce.
The analysis concluded that both executive directors were positioned significantly below the market both in terms of base salaries and on a total reward basis.
As noted previously, the Committee is mindful of investors call for restraint in quantum increases.
That said, it is considered necessary to make adjustments at this time to ensure the highly regarded management team are rewarded fairly.
The Committee has proposed that salary increases will be phased over two years.
The first increase will be effective from 1 April 2016 and is set out in the table below: Basic salary From 1 April 2015 From 1 April 2016 Increase Pim Vervaat 587,868 743,000 26.4% Simon Kesterton 324,048 360,000 11.1% For completeness, the second increase to 850,000 and 390,000 for Pim Vervaat and Simon Kesterton respectively will be effective 1 April 2017, subject to continued strong performance by the individual to the Group.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS Recent changes in Dutch legislation have increased the standard retirement age in retirement plans and reduced the maximum amount that can be accrued under the current pension arrangement for Pim Vervaat.
The employers obligation will continue to be capped at a maximum of 20% of salary.
Simon Kesterton participates in a defined contribution pension plan in the UK with an employers pension contribution of 9% up to the annual allowance and a salary supplement which in aggregate is 20% of salary.
ABP PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR 2016 17 The maximum bonus potential will be 125% of salary for the executive directors.
Of the bonus payable, 50% will be paid in cash and the remaining 50% is paid as deferred shares under the DBP which are held for 3 years subject to continued employment.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply for a period of three years from payment or vesting in relation to a material misstatement, gross misconduct, and material error in calculation or an exceptional negative event.
The performance conditions for the financial year ending 31 March 2017 will continue to be based on the Groups adjusted PBIT with a sliding bonus scale commencing at 0% of salary with a challenging threshold level of performance.
Full bonus pay out 125% of salary will result for achieving the stretch level of performance, with 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity payable on the achievement of 60% of the target range between threshold and stretch levels.
As a result of the Committees desire to ensure the long term financial health of the Company, bonuses for the year ending 31 March 2017 will be reduced by the following moderators: 9% if Reported Accident Frequency Rate RAFR is not better than year ended 31 March 2016 8% if the targeted level of free cash flow generation is not achieved: and 8% if the targeted ROCE is not achieved.
The Board deems the performance targets for the upcoming year to be commercially sensitive and the Committee has therefore taken the decision to not disclose the targets in advance.
However, the targets are set on a challenging basis, requiring incremental growth to the year ending 31 March 2016, which in itself was a record year and will only be met if recent acquisitions continue to deliver as planned.
The performance targets and performance against them will be disclosed retrospectively in next years ARR when the Committee is comfortable that the information is no longer commercially sensitive.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 PSP PERFORMANCE CONDITION FOR 2016 AWARDS It is intended that Pim Vervaat and Simon Kesterton will receive awards of 200% and 175% of base salary respectively immediately following the AGM.
Awards will vest, subject to performance and continued service, after three years but will be subject to a further two year holding period in relation to those shares that remain following a disposal of shares to meet tax and social security liabilities.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply for a period of three years from the vesting date in relation to a material misstatement, gross misconduct, and material error in calculation or an exceptional negative event.
Awards will be subject to the following performance targets: EPS element 2 3rds of awards growth in the Companys adjusted EPS in excess of CPI.
20% of this element of an award will vest for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 7.5% p. a. increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 13% p. a.
Relative TSR element 1 3rd of awards the Companys TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
20% of this element of the award will vest if the Company is ranked at the median, increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for a ranking at upper quintile or better.
Return on Net Operating Assets RONOA element to the extent that the RONOA in the year ending 31 March 2019 is less than 20%, the total vesting percentage as determined by the EPS and TSR performance targets set out above will be reduced by 20%.
The Committee has aligned the threshold vesting level for each performance target at 20% of that element of the award.
The EPS performance targets and RONOA hurdle have been set based on internal strategy plans, incorporating recent acquisitions, and external analyst consensus and a wider view of macroeconomic factors which may act as a headwind in the next performance cycle.
The targets are considered to be challenging, particularly to achieve full vesting, but remain realistic within an acceptable risk profile.
The stretching targets will only be met if acquisitions deliver in excess of expectations.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS As detailed in the remuneration policy, the Companys approach to setting non-executive directors fees is by reference to fees paid at similar companies and reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of each role.
Fees are normally reviewed every three years, with the most recent review occurring in March 2014 with fees increased from 1 April 2014.
Current fees are as follows: From 1 April 2015 From 1 April 2016 Increase Chairman 150,000 150,000 Nil Non-Executive base fee 40,000 40,000 Nil Committee Chairmans fees 10,000 10,000 Nil Senior Independent Director fee nil 7,000 7,000 Fees for acting as Chair of a Committee are paid to the respective Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration but not to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
In recognition of the fact that the role of the Senior Independent Director had expanded the Board agreed that an additional fee of 7,000 be paid to the Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 April 2016.
Whilst separate from the three yearly review cycle for non-executive director fees it was agreed that this was within the parameters of the policy.
His annual bonus is converted at the exchange rate on 31 March 2016 of 1: 1.2633 2015: 1: 1.3749.
2 Lynn Drummond became chair of the Committee on 15 July 2015 and started to receive the additional fee for chairing a committee from this date.
3 Heike van fide Kerkhof was appointed to the Board with effect from 24 November 2015.
4 Stephan Rojahn and Ilona Haaijer stepped down from the Board on 15 July 2015 and 13 May 2015 respectively.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IN RESPECT OF THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AUDITED Taxable Benefits The taxable benefits for Pim Vervaat include: a company car and fuel provision in the Netherlands, an allowance for medical insurance premiums and fees for preparation of his tax return.
The taxable benefits for Simon Kesterton comprised a UK company car and fuel provision or a car allowance alternative and private medical insurance.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 ABP for the Year Ended 31 March 2016 The annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2016 was based upon the Groups adjusted PBIT operating profit excluding the results for GCS with a sliding bonus scale set around a target of 175m.
In addition, free cash flow and ROCE moderators applied.
Any bonus payable would be reduced by: 12.5% if the Groups free cash flow for the year ended 31 March 2016 was less than 83m: and 12.5% if the Groups ROCE for the year ended 31 March 2016 was less than 14.3%.
The results of the annual bonus for the year under review were: Bonus payable Threshold Target Stretch reduction 0% payable 50% payable 100% payable Actual Reported Applied % 1 Adjusted operating profit 150m 165m 175m 174.3m 174.3m 97% Free cash flow 83m 109.2m 109.2m 2 ROCE 14.3% 15.7% 15.7% Total Bonus Payable % of maximum 97% 1 The Committee considered the effect of acquisitions during the year and concluded that the acquisition of Strata and Innocan should be included and the acquisition of GCS given its proximity to the year end, should not.
2 ROCE before taking account of the March 2016 acquisitions was 13.3%.
The Committee decided that it would be appropriate to exclude the effect of the acquisitions in order to be consistent with the calculation of the revised adjusted operating profit and in order not to penalise the participants and discourage the directors from making acquisitions that were beneficial to the Group in the future.
Of the bonus payable, 50% will be paid in cash and the remaining 50% will be deferred into shares under the DBP which will not vest for 3 years subject to continued employment.
An exceptional negative event provision also operates and the deferred bonus is subject to claw back provisions.
Vesting of 2013 PSP Awards The award of nil cost options made on 10 July 2013 under the PSP was subject to a performance condition based on a combination of EPS growth and relative TSR performance.
Two-thirds of the awards were subject to a sliding scale of growth in the adjusted basic EPS in excess of CPI for the three years ended 31 March 2016.
At threshold vesting 20% of the award would vest for an annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 5% p. a. increasing pro-rata to 50% of the award vesting for growth of CPI 9% p. a. and again increasing to 100% vesting for growth of CPI 12% p. a.
The performance targets taking into account the actual CPI over the vesting period and the actual performance against those targets was as follows: Threshold vesting Target vesting Maximum vesting Reported Applied Vesting Metric EPS EPS EPS EPS EPS EPS Adjusted basic EPS 38.4p 42.3p 45.3p 43.3p 48.1p 100% 1 The Remuneration Committee decided that the actual adjusted basic EPS should include the results for acquisitions during the performance period with the exception of GCS and the diluting effect of the rights issue of 50,582,528 shares in the Company on 20 January 2016 that was used to partly fund the acquisition of GCS.
Consequently, the EPS used to determine the outcome of the 2013 PSP award was 48.1p.
The Committee is of the view that this approach adopted is both fair to shareholders and management and the vesting percentage is reflective of Company and management performance over the three year vesting period.
The remaining one-third of awards are subject to a sliding scale based on TSR performance over a three year period relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
For a median ranking position 20% of the award will vest, increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for an upper quartile ranking position orbetter.
Performance against those targets was as follows: TSR Performance Median Upper Quartile RPC Vesting Metric TSR Rank Rank Rank % 1 Relative TSR 122.1% 103 41 27 100% 1 TSR performance was assessed independently by NBS.
For the purposes of calculating TSR of the awards, the base return index has been averaged over the three month period preceding the start of the performance period.
The results shown above include those companies that delisted during the performance period.
RPC Group Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued Vesting of 2013 PSP Awards continued The resulting awards for the current and former executive directors are as follows: No of shares 2 No of shares at No of shares to lapse Estimated value 1 grant to vest performance 000 Pim Vervaat 178,953 178,953 1,313 Simon Kesterton 118,033 118,033 866 1 Number of shares at the date of grant adjusted for the diluting effect of the rights issue of shares on 8 January 2015 and 20 January 2016.
2 The estimated value of the shares under option that vest is based on the average share price over the three months ended 31 March 2016 of 733.52 per share.
No dividends accrue in respect of awards of free shares or nil cost options under the PSP.
The awards will normally vest on 10 July 2016, the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued service only.
Pension Pim Vervaat has an individual defined benefit pension policy with a Dutch insurance company, .
The plan provides a guaranteed cash balance on retirement and aims to provide a career average pension based on an annual accrual of 1.875% p. a. with effect from 1 January 2015 2.15% p. a. from 1 January 2014 and previously 2.25% p. a. of pensionable salary capped at 101,519 under Dutch legislation with effect from 1 January 2015 and a spouses pension of 70% of his pension on death.
In addition to the reduction in the accrual rate permitted and cap on pensionable salary under Dutch legislation, the retirement age under the plan increased from 65 to 67 years with effect from 1 January 2014.
Up to 30 April 2013, the employer contributions were capped at 60,000 p. a.
Following his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 May 2013, the maximum total payable by the employer is 20% of basic salary.
This may be in the form of a pension contribution or a salary supplement or a combination of the two.
Up to 30 April 2013 Pim Vervaat contributed 8.7% of basic salary, thereafter, his contributions are nil.
Although it is a defined benefit plan, the employers obligation for the provision of pension benefits is fixed at 20% of salary and previously capped at 60,000 p. a.. Consequently, RPC is no longer expected to be exposed to any material actuarial risks in relation to the accrued benefits in this plan.
Therefore, the pension arrangement is being treated as a defined contribution plan for accounting and disclosure purposes.
Simon Kesterton is entitled to receive a Group pension contribution of 20% of basic salary, paid either as a non-pensionable salary supplement or delivered partly through the Groups defined contribution arrangement capped at 15% of basic salary, subject to a 5% of basic salary employee contribution and partly through a salary supplement 5% of basic salary.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the employer pension contribution was 29,164 2015: 28,260 and the % salary supplement paid was 35,645 2015: 34,540.
In addition, Simon Kesterton has elected to participate in the employers pension salary exchange arrangement whereby salary is reduced in exchange for the employer paying additional contributions of 9,721 2014: 9,420.
Life assurance of four times basic salary is also provided for Pim Vervaat and Simon Kesterton.
The Company does not contribute to any pension arrangements for non-executive directors.
Other Income During the year under review, Pim Vervaat received fees of 50,500 2015: 4,208 in respect of his appointment as a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
Payments to Former Directors Ron Marsh retired from the Board on 10 July 2013 and retired from the Company on 30 September 2013.
The 2012 PSP award completed its performance period on 31 March 2015 and 73% of this award vested on 18 July 2015 with a value of 123,239.
The amount of shares vesting was pro-rated to reflect the portion of the performance period completed between the grant date and the date of retirement from the Company.
Ron Marsh holds no further interests in any share plans of the Company.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND OPTIONS AUDITED Scheme Interests Awarded in the Year On 15 July 2015, executive directors were granted the following PSP awards.
1 Executive director Number of PSP awards Basis Face value Pim Vervaat 79,976 125% of base salary 525,287 Simon Kesterton 61,671 125% of base salary 405,060 1 Number of shares at the date of grant before adjustment for the diluting effect of the rights issue of shares on 20 January 2016.
2 Pim Vervaats grant as a percentage of base salary is calculated using the exchange rate on the date of grant 1: 1.3989.
3 Based on a share price of 656.8p which was the average closing share price over five dealing days immediately prior to grant.
Performance conditions for the PSP awards made on 15 July 2015 are subject to targets for the performance period of 3 years ended 31 March 2018 as follows: Two-thirds of an award: 15% of this part of an award will vest for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 4% p. a. increasing pro-rata to 50% of this part of an award vesting for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 8% p. a. vesting then increases pro-rata to 100% vesting of this part of an award for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 12% p. a.
One-third of an award: 20% of this part of an award will vest if RPCs TSR is ranked at the median of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting of this part of an award if RPCs TSR is ranked at or above the upper quintile.
In addition, no part of this award may vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the vesting percentage produced by the TSR condition is reflective of the Groups underlying financial performance.
The Directors Shareholdings and Share Interests The Company operates shareholding guidelines that require the executive directors to maintain a holding in RPC shares equal to 100% of salary.
As part of this requirement they must retain 50% of those shares received, post any disposal to satisfy tax and social security obligations, until the guideline is achieved.
Only beneficially owned shares count towards the shareholding guideline percentage.
Beneficially Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding owned at owned at PSP Sharesave Deferred Bonus Shareholding Shareholding 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 awards Options Share Options as a % of salary at Guideline Number Number Number Number Number 31 March 2016 Achieved Executive directors 1 Pim Vervaat 218,000 240,000 381,148 4,516 79,551 379% Yes 1 Simon Kesterton 4,000 4,800 265,285 4,516 56,413 11% No Non-executive directors Jamie Pike 288,666 311,524 n a n a Lynn Drummond 823 987 n a n a 3 Ilona Haaijer n a n a n a n a n a n a 3 Stephan Rojahn n a n a n a n a n a n a 4 Heike van fide Kerkhof n a n a n a Martin Towers 21,666 25,999 n a n a Godwin Wong n a n a 1 Shareholding as a percentage of salary is calculated using the exchange rate on 31 March 2016 1: 1.2633 and average share price over the 30 days to 30 March 2016 735.67p.
2 Adjusted for the diluting effect of the rights issue of shares on 20 January 2016.
3 Stephan Rojahn and Ilona Haaijer stepped down from the Board on 15 July 2015 and 13 May 2015 respectively.
4 Heike van fide Kerkhof was appointed to the Board with effect from 24 November 2015.
There have been no changes in the interests set out above between 31 March 2016 and the date of this report.
They represent 50% of the annual bonus paid as deferred shares which are held for 3 years subject to continued employment.
2 PSP awards were made in the form of nil cost options.
Interests as at 31 March 2016 show the maximum number of shares that will vest provided that the performance conditions are met.
3 Performance conditions for the PSP awards made in 2012 were based on sliding scale EPS targets whereby 25% of awards vest for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 5% p. a. increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 10% p. a.
The performance conditions were met at 73% and the shares transferred from the RPC Group Employee Benefit Trust on the exercise of the options on 15 July 2015.
On the same date, Pim Vervaat sold 35,276 shares for a consideration of 682.5p per share including sufficient shares to pay the income tax, social security and dealing expenses due following the vesting.
4 Performance conditions for the PSP awards made in 2013 can be found on page 71.
5 The performance conditions for the PSP awards made in 2014 were as follows: Two-thirds of an award: 15% of this part of an award will vest for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 4% p. a. increasing pro-rata to 50% of this part of an award vesting for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 8% p. a. then increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting of this part of an award for annual adjusted EPS growth of CPI 12% p. a.
6 Performance conditions for the PSP awards made in 2015 can be found on page 73.
7 The market price of an RPC Group Plc 5p ordinary share at 31 March 2016 was 759.5p and the range of prices during the year was 564.5p to 849.5p per share.
8 No dividends accrue in respect of awards of nil cost options under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
9 There have been no changes in share options between 31 March 2016 and the date of this report.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND REMUNERATION TABLE The graph below shows the total shareholder return on a holding of RPC shares compared with an equivalent holding in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
This index has been chosen as it is a broad market index of which RPC is a constituent and is therefore considered to be the most relevant yardstick against which the Companys total shareholder return performance may be measured over the 7 years ended 31 March 2016.
RPC Group Total Return Index FTSE 250 EX Investment Trust Total Return Index 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 This graph shows the value by 31 March 2016 of 100 invested in RPC Group Plc on 31 March 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The table below shows the single total remuneration for the Chief Executive for the last seven years, together with the proportion of the maximum annual bonus paid and vesting of the relevant long-term incentive plan.
The remuneration shown represents amounts received for performing the role of Chief Executive.
The amounts includes 11 month of salary, benefits and pension contributions: and also 11 12ths of the bonus received to reflect the amount of bonus received in respect of performing the role of Chief Executive for 11 months.
The full amount of the PSP is included as this represents remuneration received for performance over a 3 year period.
The amounts includes 1 month of salary, benefits and pension contributions: and also 1 6th of the bonus received for employment to 30 September 2013 to reflect the amount of bonus received in respect of performing the role of Chief Executive for 1 month.
No amount is shown in respect of the PSP as this vested following retirement from the Company.
3 Prior to adopting the ABP for the year ended 31 March 2012 there was no bonus arrangement.
4 The first awards under the PSP vested in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011.
Prior to this options were granted under the RPC Group 2003 Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes.
Although the options that vested in respect of the performance period ended 31 March 2010 vested in full, the market value of the options on the vesting date was less than the exercise price payable.
% RPC Group Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION The table below shows the percentage change in the salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus from the year ended 31 March 2015 to the year ended 31 March 2016 compared with the average equivalent amount per employee for all UK participants in the ABP.
This group of UK employees was considered a more appropriate comparator group given that the three elements required for comparison are present and that the Chief Executives remuneration is based on UK remuneration practices.
UK employee Chief Executive comparator group 1 % change % change Salary 3.2% 7.43% Taxable benefits 0.57% 7.45% Annual bonus 5.37% 8.70% 1 The Chief Executive, Pim Vervaat, is paid in euros.
The percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration has been calculated based on the remuneration denominated in euros to eliminate the effect of exchange rate movements.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table shows the Groups actual expenditure on pay for all its employees relative to other financial measures: 2016 2015 Change m m % Staff costs 412.8 289.5 42.6% Dividends 40.8 29.9 36.5% Revenue 1,642.4 1,222.4 34.4% Adjusted operating profit 174.3 131.6 32.4% Capital investment including acquisitions 633.0 547.7 15.6% Staff costs include salaries, fees, bonus and employer pension and social security contributions for directors.
This is different from the remuneration given in the remuneration tables above.
The increase is due to the addition of staff costs for acquired businesses and employment costs associated with restructuring.
Dividends comprise the interim paid and final proposed dividend payable for the relevant financial year and have increased significantly due to the rights issue, placing and other shares issued during the year.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE LAST AGM At the AGM held on 15 July 2015, the Directors remuneration report and Directors remuneration policy received the following votes from shareholders: Directors remuneration report Total number ofvotes % of votes cast Votes cast in favour 191,496,137 99.6% Votes cast against 736,284 0.4% Total votes cast 192,232,421 100% Votes withheld 110,099 0.1% The above demonstrates the substantial level of shareholder support in respect of the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2016 was approved by the Board on 2 June 2016 and has been signed on its behalf by: L Drummond Chair of the Remuneration Committee 2 June 2016
