Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report that, during 2015-16, the Company continued to make progress in several important areas.
We delivered an increase in adjusted operating profit before transformation costs, while continuing to manage our ongoing and complex transformation in a rapidly changing industry.
This year the Committee is proposing changes to the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, to reflect our fast-changing marketplace.
I will make some brief comments on both of these themes here thereport on the following pages gives more detail on each.
Performance and and represented 20 percent each of the Designing a policy to match our potential bonus, was also good.
remuneration in 2015-16 market context The year was one of continued Last year, I mentioned to shareholders in This resulted in a bonus of almost 82 percent steady progress, despite intensifying this letter that we were considering making of salary for our Chief Executive Officer CEO, competition in a rapidly changing market.
changes to our Remuneration Policy because Moya Greene: and 81 percent of salary for Highlights included: of the fastchanging market environment our Chief Finance Officer CFO, Matthew in which Royal Mail operates.
More detail about the annual bonus Adjusted operating profit, before we have studied our options carefully.
targets and performance against specific transformation costs, of 738 million at We have consulted with many of our largest KPIs is given on page 75. the budgeted foreign exchange rate: shareholders in the course of designing these changes.
We have taken their comments and A one percent reduction in UKPIL Long Term Incentive Plan suggestions into account in finalising the underlying operating costs: During 201516, the Company partly met the proposed policy.
We are now recommending stretching performance targets that were set A productivity improvement in collections, these changes for shareholder approval.
in 2013 for Operating Profit and Return on processing and delivery of 2.4 percent, If approved, the new policy would apply Total Assets ROTA.
The gateway for ROTA within our 2.0 3.0 percent target from201617.
was achieved, Operating Profit performance range: and was between threshold and a very challenging The factors which have shaped our proposals Rolling out new products and services target.
As a result, 83 percent of the 2013 include the following: at pace.
LTIP target award vested for both Executive Directors.
This award had originally been The performance achieved resulted in The market in which Royal Mail operates made in cash and was converted to shares payouts to our executive team on both is intensely competitive and very dynamic.
two weeks after flotation, in October 2013, our annual bonus and our Long Term To thrive and grow in this market requires at a share price of 5.29.
The Committee had Incentive Plan LTIP, in accordance with our Management to maintain an intensity no reason to use its discretion to reduce the our Remuneration Policy.
Their total of pace in improving productivity and award.
More details of the LTIP payout can be compensation remained broadly flat year efficiency month by month and year by found on pages 7677. on year.
This is an increasingly challenging task.
This hard won, shortterm success Annual salary review Annual bonus is essential to support our longterm The Committee also considered the Executive Our performance in 201516 resulted in performance.
Accordingly, increasing our Directors salaries.
The CFOs salary was the achievement of a good score against relative focus on shortterm performance last increased in April 2014.
The Committee many of the financial, people, efficiency and is appropriate, provided it supports approved an increase of 4.6 percent, taking customer targets in our Corporate Balanced enduring performance.
his salary to 475,000 per annum, with effect Scorecard.
This scorecard, along with a series from 1 April 2016.
As we said in last years We want to create a reward structure that of Strategic Objectives, made up 80 percent Report, no change was made to the CEOs appropriately balances the importance of of the potential annual bonus for Executive salary in 201516. shortterm delivery with the creation of Directors.
Performance against personal longterm sustainable value.
objectives, which were set by the Committee 60 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information We are keen to ensure that our reward is performance period.
It is also aligned with more closely aligned with the interests of our commitment to a progressive dividend longterm shareholders, i. e. more of the policy, which is an important element of potential reward should be in shares, and TSR.
We are proposing to keep the level shares should be held by our executives of vesting threshold at 50% of the award, for longer periods.
as is the case for the current LTIP.
This is a high percentage of maximum LTIP Our aim and intention is to deliver award compared to companies of similar sustainable shareholder value.
The size and complexity, but as our maximum amount of change that is occurring both LTIP award is half that of our peers, and in the parcels market, and in Royal Mails our salaries are also lower, it is a similar cost base, makes specific targets, such as percentage of salary vesting for threshold EPS, complex to measure.
We are keen to performance: and a lower overall value avoid complexity.
than that of most comparable companies.
Our proposed new policy seeks to address These proposed changes are more fully these issues and contains three proposed, explained in the following pages.
Taken in substantive changes: the round, we believe that they will provide a coherent framework that will reward delivery 1.
Increase the maximum incentive at pace on the objectives required to achieve opportunity available based on annual sustainable success, while maintaining performance through the introduction appropriate flexibility in target setting from of a deferred share element, which year to year: would vest three years after award, subject to continued employment and More aligned with our fastchanging malus provisions.
This maximum deferred market place and with what our senior element would be equal to the current managers need to focus on year by year: maximum cash bonus opportunity 100percent of salary, creating a Incentivises sustained year on year combined maximum annual incentive improvements with the aim of delivering opportunity of 200 percent of salary.
longterm value for shareholders: Thischange coincides with a careful Increased proportion of remuneration review of the performance metrics, which is delivered in the form of deferred increasing the quantitative operational and equity, from around 25 percent to financial targets significantly.
We believe 40percent of the total: and that this will focus attention on delivery of key objectives consistently and at pace, Reduces complexity and is more while aiding retention and recruitment.
It will also increase the speed at which We believe that this new policy will continue executives are likely to accumulate to help us attract and retain the right people, shares.
Therefore, we are proposing to who are incentivised to drive the creation of increase the shareholding guideline for sustainable, longterm shareholder value.
our Executive Directors to 200 percent However, the total package for our CEO of salary.
remains below the lower quartile level of our 2.
Introduce a two year holding period FTSE 100 peers, and we continue to retain our on shares vesting under the LTIP for the commitment to avoid any pay for failure.
CEC and Executive Directors, to achieve greater alignment between the interests I hope that you agree with our proposed of Management and shareholders.
changes and that you will support our We propose to increase the maximum proposed Remuneration Policy and Annual LTIP opportunity by two percent to Report on Remuneration this year.
This remains relatively low for a company of our size and complexity Orna Ni-Chionna but we do not believe it is appropriate Chair, Remuneration Committee to introduce further leverage into our 18 May 2016 executive incentive plans at this stage.
Use relative Total Shareholder Return TSR as the only performance measure for the LTIP, as this is a measure of the success in delivering our strategy.
In a competitive environment that is changing as rapidly as ours, this measure, which is focused on shareholder alignment, will still be as relevant at the end of the period as it is at the start of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 61 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Our current and proposed Remuneration Policy What is our proposed Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors?
The following tables outline our current and proposed Remuneration Policy.
We intend to apply the new policy to our Executive Directors, subject to shareholder approval, from 21 July 2016 the date of the AGM, for a period of three years.
Over the past year, the Remuneration Committee has carried out an extensive review of the current Remuneration Policy.
We believe there are opportunities to improve the current remuneration structure, adhering to the remuneration principles agreed by the Committee: Remuneration Principles Implications for Remuneration Policy Overall package The overall remuneration package should take account There is scope to better align Remuneration Policy with Group of the dynamics of the market in which we operate.
Our strategy, ensuring that Management is appropriately incentivised incentive arrangements are evolving to ensure that we can and rewarded to deliver sustainable shareholder value reward performance appropriately Incentive levels & Incentive payouts should be based primarily on the Design incentives to take into account the challenges that structure achievement of relevant operational, financial and exist in relation to setting longterm financial, operational and strategic goals, as well as the creation of longterm strategic goals whilst the Company continues to go through shareholdervalue  Alignment with Management interests should be aligned to the interests of Increase the equity based components of the total package in shareholders shareholders, including through building a significant Royal order to create a stronger alignment with shareholder interests Mail shareholding We are proposing a number of key changes to the structure of our remuneration: 1.
Introduce a deferred share component to the existing annual bonus opportunity: as outlined above, a deferred share award of up to 100 percent of salary, based on annual performance in the previous financial year, would be introduced subject to a threeyear vesting period, continued employment and malus provisions.
In parallel, the Committee is proposing some simplification of our KPIs to ensure the annual bonus rewards delivery against the most critical financial, operational and strategic goals.
This change will give the Committee flexibility to incentivise and reward financial and operational success during our ongoing transformation, while making the remuneration package more competitive in the market to attract and retain key talent.
In addition, it provides a route for the Executive Directors to increase their shareholding more quickly.
Accordingly, we are proposing to increase the shareholding guideline to 200 percent of salary from 100 percent of salary.
Restructure the current LTIP: a Introduce a holding period following the end of the performance period We are proposing the addition of a twoyear holding period on LTIP shares, following vesting, to increase alignment between the interests of executives and longterm shareholders and further balance the shorterterm focus of the annual bonus: and b Simplify the performance measures We propose to focus the award on the Groups TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 excluding mining and financial companies over three years.
Taken together, we believe that these changes will create a simpler and more direct linkage to the mindset that our executives need to have to achieve the changes that the Board is seeking and as such, are an important element in driving the continued success of the Company in its current competitive context.
We believe that by executing our strategy and delivering against our annual KPIs, the Company will be able to pursue a progressive dividend policy and create longterm value for shareholders.
62 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information We are mindful of the need to ensure that having a single performance measure does not lead to an inappropriate vesting outcome.
We are committed to completing a thorough review of underlying business performance at the end of each three year performance period to ensure that our TSR result is reflective of Company performance over that time.
We are also aware of the need to create an appropriate balance between shortterm and longterm incentives.
For this reason: all of the increase in the maximum incentive opportunity based on annual performance is delivered in deferred shares, which only vest after three years: we have doubled our executive shareholding guideline to 200 percent of salary: and we are proposing a new two year holding period for the LTIP following vesting.
The annual bonus and LTIP are also underpinned by malus and clawback provisions.
Under the proposed policy, a larger proportion of the overall package will be linked to performance, more will be delivered in shares and the payout will be over a longer timeline: 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Fixed Remuneration: Base Salary & Pension Annual Bonus: LTIP: Shares Current Allowance Cash Cash Shares Paid just after end of Paid in Year Paid after the 3 year performance period performance period Annual Bonus: Fixed Remuneration: Base Salary & Pension LTIP: Shares Proposed Allowance Cash & Shares Cash Shares Paid just after end of Paid 3 years after end Paid after the 3 year performance period, Paid in Year performance period of performance period with a further 2 year holding period Policy table The following tables set out the key elements of our remuneration, its purpose and link to strategy and the maximum opportunity.
In addition, where relevant, we have set out the changes proposed to the policy for each element of remuneration and the rationale behind these changes.
The Committee has discretion in several areas of the policy.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant incentive plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of the Company are taken into account, including any base salary increases awarded.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to the approval of the new policy will be honoured.
This will be the case even if meeting such commitments is made after the approval of the new policy and may be inconsistent with the new policy.
The approach outlined here will be reviewed in three years time.
Amongst other factors, the balance between short and longterm elements in the package will be reviewed and may change in favour of the longterm.
In addition, the measure used to assess this performance may change, reflecting the pace of change and the challenges facing the Company at the time.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 63 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Fixed remuneration Operation Maximum Performance Measures Change from current policy and Opportunity rationale Base salary Purpose & Link To Strategy Reflects the scope and responsibility of the role, while taking account of the skills and experience of the individual.
Used to attract and retain talented executives to deliver the business strategy.
Salary levels for the Executive Directors are Increases will Not applicable No change normally reviewed annually.
normally be in line with the The Committee takes into account factors broader employee such as the performance of the Company, population.
the performance of the Executive Director, any changes in role and responsibility, Increases may assessment against relevant comparator be made above groups, internal relativities and the this level to level of increase being offered to our take account frontlineemployees.
of changing circumstances such as a change in responsibility, progression in the role, individual performance or a significant increase in the scale or size of therole.
Benefits Purpose & Link To Strategy To support the attraction and retention of talented executives by providing a competitive offering.
Benefits currently include the provision The maximum Not applicable No change of a company car and health insurance, value of the or the cash equivalent of these benefits.
benefits is Life assurance and health screening are the cost to also provided.
be offered such as relocation allowances onrecruitment.
Moya Greene is entitled to financial advice, use of a driver for businessrelated travel and two return flights to Canada each year.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme, with monthly deductions being taken for a period of three or five years.
The savings can be used to purchase shares at a discounted price set at the start of each plan.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive Free Shares when released by the Government.
They participate in any Free Share allocations on the same basis as all other eligible fulltime employees.
Pension Purpose & Link To Strategy To provide a competitive postretirement income.
Company contribution to a defined 200,000 per Not applicable The Committee maintains contractual historical contribution pension scheme and or a cash annum cash pension supplements for existing Executive supplement in lieu of pension.
allowance for the Directors: however it recognises that the CEO.
It would adopt a lower percentage for newly appointed Executive 40% of salary Directors, up to median FTSE100 levels.
paid as a cash allowance for theCFO.
64 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Variable remuneration Operation Maximum Performance Measures Change from current policy Opportunity andrationale Annual bonus Purpose & Link To Strategy Current policy: Designed to reward achievement of key strategic, financial and operational priorities for the year, to deliver strong performance in service of longer term strategic goals and creation of longterm shareholder value.
Proposed policy: As the current policy, with the addition of the provision of part of the total annual incentive opportunity being a deferred share award encouraging a longterm view, providing alignment with shareholders interests.
Current policy Maximum bonus Aligned to the Corporate Balanced Scorecard for the The proposed changes increase the proportion of The bonus is paid in cash.
opportunity of Executive Directors each year.
the package weighted on shortterm performance, 100% of salary.
allowing the Company to set annual KPIs which Best practice clawback provisions are more significantly incentivise the successful included in the annual bonus.
delivery of the Companys transformation agenda, alongside its operational, financial and strategic goals.
This allows the Company some flexibility to respond to a rapidly evolving market and ensure that KPIs remain relevant and focused on the business stage of transformation.
The increase to bonus quantum aims to improve the Proposed policy Maximum total Annual performance measures and weightings will competitiveness of the Companys annual bonus The total annual incentive opportunity is annual incentive be selected at the start of each financial year to align versus the market.
The proposed maximum total provided as follows: opportunity of with the key strategic, financial and operational annual incentive opportunity of 200% of salary 200% of salary, priorities of the business.
one half is payable in cash, paid at the would go some way to addressing this.
with two thirds end of the annual performance period The measures themselves may change on an annual earned for target However, the increase in maximum bonus is basis as the key strategic, financial and operational performance one half is granted as a deferred share delivered in the form of a deferred share award.
priorities of the business change.
split equally award, after the end of the performance Bonus deferral and the malus provisions act as between For 2016, 80% of the annual bonus will be based on period and subject to continued a balance to the increase in quantum and ensure cash and the scorecard targets, and 20% will be based on the employment over the three year that Executive Directors continue to be exposed deferredshares.
to the longterm sharebased performance of theCompany.
Deferred share awards will be granted A minimum of 50% of the scorecard targets shall The Committee to Executive Directors in the form of a be financial, with the remainder robust operational, Combined with the LTIP of 100% of salary, the total will normally conditional share award.
package remains relatively low compared to other award dividend FTSE 100 companies.
equivalents A minimum level of operating profit must be achieved Malus provisions would apply to the on deferred before any bonus is payable to an Executive Director.
deferred share award over the three year shares to plan vesting period.
participants to A clawback mechanism would apply to the extent that the cash bonus for a period of three years they vest.
The Committee may use its discretion to: change the performance measures and targets and the weighting attached to the performance measures and targets partway through a performance year if there is a significant and material event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate: and to make downward or upward movements to the amount of bonus earned resulting from the application of the performance measures, if the Committee believes that the bonus outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Annual bonus: current policy vs proposed policy Start of Performa 0 nce Period End of Performa 10 nce Period 1 20 Years 2 30 Years 3 40 Years Performance period, Current Subject to clawback subject to malus Cash award paid Proposed Performance period, Subject to clawback Cash Bonus subject to malus Cash award paid Pre-grant performance Vesting period, subject to malus Deferred Share Award period, subject to malus Deferred shares released Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 65 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Long term incentive plan Operation Maximum Performance Measures Change from current policy and Opportunity rationale Purpose & Link To Strategy Current policy: Supports executive recruitment and retention, with an appropriate balance between shortterm performance and the creation of longterm, sustainable shareholder value.
Proposed policy: As the current policy, with greater emphasis on the creation of shareholder value.
Current policy Maximum award The performance conditions for the 2015 awards For 2016, vesting will be based on a single Awards are granted annually to Executive level of 98% were measured over a three year performance measure, TSR.
The rationale for this measure is Directors in the form of a conditional share ofsalary.
period as follows: set out in more detail on page 61. award.
The Committee 50% of the award assessed against Earnings The Committee decided to retain the existing These will vest at the end of a three year may award Per Share, with 12.5% of the award vesting at vesting schedule that applies to the TSR period subject to: dividend threshold and 50% vesting at maximum.
measure within the current LTIP, with 50% of the equivalents on TSR element of the award vesting for median the Executive Directors continued 35% of the award dependent on Operating profit those shares to TSR performance.
employment at the date of vesting: and margin before transformation costs, with 8.75% the extent that of the award vesting at threshold performance The Committee recognises that the threshold they vest.
satisfaction of the performance and 35% vesting at maximum.
vesting level of 50% of the award may seem high conditions.
compared to a threshold vesting level of 25% 15% of the award dependent on TSR against in a typical FTSE 100 company.
However most Malus and clawback provisions are the FTSE 100 excluding mining and financial of these organisations have an LTIP maximum included in the LTIP.
If the Groups TSR performance is award of 200% of salary or more, whereas ours ranked at median, 7.5% of the award will vest, remains at 100% of salary.
Therefore the actual increasing to full vesting 15% of the award if percentage of salary vesting for threshold performance is in the top quartile of the group.
performance of 50% is similar to typical practice.
The Committee does not feel it is appropriate Different performance measures and or weightings to operate a highly leveraged package at this may be used for each award.
stage in Royal Mails development and therefore does not want to increase the LTIP opportunity in order to correspondingly reduce the level of vesting at threshold.
Any future change in LTIP maximum award would of course be put to shareholders for approval.
Proposed policy Maximum award Performance measures and or weightings reflect The addition of a two year holding period to Awards are granted annually to Executive level of 100% the business strategy at the time, and are measured the terms of the LTIP award further aligns Directors in the form of a conditional ofsalary.
the interests of Management with those of shareaward.
The Committee The Committee may change the balance of the These will vest at the end of a three year will normally measures, or use different measures for subsequent The Committee will retain the discretion to make period subject to: award dividend awards, as appropriate.
adjustments to the vesting of the LTIP resulting equivalents on from the application of the performance the Executive Directors continued For the 2016 award, 100% of the award will be those shares to measures if the Committee believes that employment at the date of vesting: and dependent on TSR against the FTSE 100 excluding the extent that the outcomes are not a fair and accurate mining and financial companies.
reflection of underlying business performance.
satisfaction of the relative TSR performance is ranked at median, 50% The Committee will consider its discretion .
of the award will vest, increasing to full vesting if very carefully taking account of underlying performance is in the top quartile of the group.
Following the vesting, there is a holding business performance during the three year period of two years when Executive vesting period and explain in full in the relevant Directors hold vested shares net of tax.
Remuneration Committee Report the basis of its determination.
Malus provisions apply over the performance period.
Clawback will apply over the holding period.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee retains the discretion to: vary or waive the performance conditions applying to LTIP awards if the Board considers it appropriate and that the new performance conditions are deemed reasonable and are not materially more or less difficult to satisfy than the original conditions: LTIP: current policy vs proposed policy: Start of 1 Years 2 Years 3 Years 4 Years 5 Years 6 Years Performance Period Current Performance period: subject to malus terms Subject to clawback Award vests subject to performance Performance period: subject to malus terms Holding period: subject to clawback Proposed Award vests subject Post-tax shares to performance released 66 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 n n i i s s u u b b e e l l b b a a n n i i a a t t s s u u s s g g n n i i v v e e i i h h c c a a, , e e l l p p o o e e p p e e v v i i t t c c u u d d o o r r p p & & e e f f a a s s, , d d e e g g a a g g n n e e h h g g u u o o r r h h t t Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Shareholding guideline Operation Maximum Performance Measures Change from current policy and Opportunity rationale Purpose & Link To Strategy To ensure alignment between remuneration and longterm shareholder value creation.
Current policy Shareholding Not applicable Shareholders have recently raised their Directors are expected to keep any shares guideline of 100% expectations of the level of minimum they already own and 50% of any shares of salary shareholdings held by Executive Directors of released under the LTIP after selling listed companies.
sufficient shares to meet any associated tax Part of the rationale behind the new policy obligation until this is achieved.
proposed by the Committee is to provide a larger element of the potential remuneration for the Companys Executive Directors in equity.
Proposed policy Shareholding Not applicable The Committee has therefore determined Directors are expected to keep any shares requirement of to increase the minimum shareholding they already own and any shares released 200% of salary requirement to 200% for the Executive Directors.
under the LTIP and the Deferred Share Due to the restrictions on share purchase at the Bonus Plan except for those sold to cover IPO, and the fact that LTIPs have not previously any tax and social security obligations until this is achieved.
vested in shares, the shareholding requirements for the Executive Directors will take a while tofulfil.
Now that Executive Directors can increase their shareholding requirement through both the LTIP and the deferred share award, it is intended that they will not sell any shares other than to cover tax and social security until they build up the required shareholding guideline.
How do the KPIs for our annual bonus and LTIP link to the Group strategy?
Annual bonus A significant proportion of the performance in the annual bonus is measured through the Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
This scorecard tracks a range of shortterm measures that are critical to the creation of longterm, sustainable shareholder value and the delivery of our strategy.
TheCommittee is proposing to simplify the number of metrics that comprise the scorecard to sharpen Management focus on the most important targets.
Specific quadrants are removed under this new approach.
However, the metrics continue to focus on our people, customer, efficiency and financial performance.
All Executive Directors and CEC members participating in this plan are also set strategic and or personal objectives that reflect the priorities of their respective roles.
The current scorecard is shown below, with the proposed policy shown on the right hand side: Current policy Proposed policy Emplo Emplo yee cus yee cus tomer tomer focus focus FirstFir Clas st Clas s quality of ser s quality of ser vicevice Emplo Emplo yee engagement yee engagement Composit Composit e pae pa rcels q rcels q uality uality SickSick absenc absenc e rae r te ate 3% 3% 3% 3% Emplo Emplo yee yee MeaM n busines ean busines s cus s cus tomer tomer 1st Clas 1st Clas s s 3% 3% 3% 3% Engagement Engagement 3% 3% satisf sa ac tisf tion action Retail Quality Retail Quality Accident Accident rate rate 6% 6% 10% 10% of Ser of Ser vice vice Total cus Total cus tomer tomer 6% 6% 10% 10% complaint complaint s s People People UKPIL UKPIL nonnonCustomer Customer 3% 3% TotalTotal Road RT oad rafc Trafc 15%15% people c people c ostsosts 15%15% Customer Customer Collisions Collisions 3% 3% Complaint Complaint s 000 s 000 av.
v ehicles ehicles 10% 10% 000 10% 000 10% UKPIL UKPIL people c people c ostsosts 6% 6% Mean B Mea usines n Busines s s Produc Produc tivity f tivity f or or Efcienc Efcienc y y Customer Customer DelivDeliv ery, C er ollec y, Ctions ollections 15%15% Produc Produc tivity f tivity f or or Satisf Sa actisf tion action & Proc & P esrsing % ocessing % 6% 6% collec collec tions, tions, 10% 10% 10% 10% procpr esoc sing & essing & deliv deliv ery ery StratS etg ra ytegy 40%40% In-Ye In-Y ar Te ra ading r Trading Financial Financial Total UKPIL Total UKPIL 6% 6% Casho Casho w m w m 15%15% Costs m Costs m Free c Free c asho asho w w GrouGr p oup 40%40% 10% 10% 10% 10% OperOper atingating profit P e rot xcl excl 6% 6% Total Gr Total Gr oup oup transf trorma ansforma tion tion Revenue m Revenue m Grou Gr p oper oup oper ating pr ating pr ot ot 3% 3% costs m costs m 10% 10% 10% 10% Total Gr Total Gr oup R oue p R venue evenue Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 67 e e c c i i v v r r e e s s r r e e m m o o t t s s u u c c t t a a e e r r g g g g n n i i r r e e v v i i l l e e D D s s r r e e d d l l o o h h e e r r a a h h s s l l l l a a r r o o f f s s t t l l u u s s e e r r s s s s e e Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report The Executive Directors will be assessed against a series of strategic objectives, in line with the Group Strategy described in pages 1617 earlier in the Report.
In summary, they are: Articulate the ambition for the Company for the next five years and define the route to achieving that vision.
Defend the Letters business by managing the cost base of the core network effectively, continuing to transform the business to become more efficient, and stemming letters decline through initiatives.
Continuing to evolve the Parcels business both in the UK and internationally to win more profitable business in a dynamic and highly competitive market place.
Growing in new areas through acquisitions as well as leveraging our existing assets.
Continue to refresh our approach to technology, defining a digital strategy which identifies and embraces technology relevant for our business future.
LTIP Under the proposed policy we are simplifying our LTIP by having a single metric directly reflecting shareholder value achieved, including dividends, relative to other large quoted companies.
The Committee believes relative TSR is an appropriate measure of strategy implementation over the next three years.
It rewards the creation of value for shareholders through the successful execution of our strategy.
TSR also reflects the importance of dividend yield to the Groups shareholders and the Companys commitment to a progressive dividend policy.
In the event that the underlying financial performance of the Group is not reflected in the TSR performance, the Committee would retain discretion to adjust the award.
What is the remuneration opportunity under the proposed policy?
The following charts set out the remuneration scenarios under the proposed policy for the Executive Directors.
CEO 000s Fixed Remuneration Variable Remuneration 31% 23% 23% 23% 2,422 Maximum 41% 19% 19% 21% 1,893 On Target 779 100% Minimum 0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2000 2250 2500 Fixed Remuneration Annual Bonus Deferred Share Award LTIP CFO 000s Fixed Remuneration Variable Remuneration 31% 23% 23% 23% 2,105 Maximum 41% 19% 19% 21% 1,646 On Target 100% 680 Minimum 0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2000 2250 2500 Fixed Remuneration Annual Bonus Deferred Share Award LTIP Assumptions Minimum fixed remuneration: This includes salary 201617 salaries CEO: 547,800, CFO: 475,000, pension CEO: 200,000, CFO: 40% of salary and benefits CEO: 31,000, CFO: 15,000.
Ontarget: Bonus: For the proposed bonus, ontarget is taken as twothirds of maximum and the same value is used for the deferred share award LTIP: The expected value is taken as 70% of maximum.
Maximum: Bonus: For the cash bonus and deferred share award this is 100% of salary LTIP: For the proposed LTIP this is 100% of salary.
No assumptions have been made in relation to future share price movements or dividend reinvestments.
68 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Element Implementation of policy in 2016-17 Base salary Increase in base salary for the CFO from 454,065 to 475,000 with effect from 1 April 2016.
This is the first increase the CFO has received since April 2014.
As the Committee said in last years Report, there is no change to the salary of the CEO.
Benefits No change to benefit provision for 201617 Pension No change to pension provision for 201617 Annual bonus The maximum total annual incentive opportunity for the Executive Directors will be 200% of salary, per proposed policy, half delivered in cash and half in deferred shares.
For the 201617 annual bonus, 80% of the award will be based on the achievement against the scorecard, of which at least 50% of the measures will be financial, with the remainder focused on operational, customer and peoplerelated targets.
20% of the award will be based on achievement against strategic objectives.
The Committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the annual bonus in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts under the Plan.
LTIP The Executive Directors will be eligible for an award equivalent to 100% of salary, which is relatively low compared to the external market.
100% of the award will be based on the Groups relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding mining and financialcompanies.
The vesting schedule will measure the Groups performance over three years as follows: 50% of salary will vest if TSR performance is equal to the median TSR of the companies in the comparator group: Maximum vesting will occur if TSR is equal to, or greater than, the upper quartile TSR of the comparator group: The award is subject to straight line vesting between these two points.
Shareholding guidelines 200% of salary for Executive Directors.
Have shareholders been engaged in the design of this proposed policy?
The Chair of the Committee has engaged with many of our larger shareholders to explain the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy, the reasons for those changes and the desired outcomes.
Shareholders were generally positive in their comments and made constructive suggestions for improving the proposals.
We have taken this feedback into account in arriving at our final proposal.
What would the remuneration arrangements be for a new Executive Director?
Salaries for new Executive Directors appointed to the Board will be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
In particular, they will take account of the appointees skills and experience as well as the scope and market rate for the role.
Benefits consistent with those offered to other Executive Directors under the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment will be offered, including the discretion to offer additional benefits such as relocation allowance on recruitment.
Pensions for new Executive Directors appointed to the Board will be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment, and will typically be up to the median of the market and will be lower than the pension provision for our existing Executive Directors.
Incentive arrangements for new Executive Directors will be in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
This means the maximum total annual incentive opportunity award in any year would be 200 percent of salary and the maximum LTIP award would be 100 percent of salary, with the ability to offer up to 200 percent of salary for the year of recruitment if the proposed policy is approved.
For an externally appointed Executive Director, the Company may offer additional cash or sharebased payments that it considers necessary to buy out current entitlements from the former employer that will be forfeited on recruitment.
Any such arrangements would reflect the type of award e. g. cash or shares, time horizons and levels of conditionality of the remuneration lost.
In order to facilitate buyout arrangements, existing incentive schemes will be used to the extent possible, and the Committee will retain discretion on the application of holding periods, performance conditions and performance periods.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 69 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report For an internally appointed Executive Director, any outstanding variable pay element, such as a longterm incentive plan awarded in respect of the prior role will continue on its original terms.
The fees for NonExecutive Directors appointed will be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
The Committee always seeks to ensure that any remuneration package is set such that the Company is able to attract the right calibre of individual required, whilst taking account of affordability, and therefore must be allowed to exercise its judgement.
What are the Executive Directors terms of employment?
The Executive Directors are employed under service contracts.
The dates of these contracts are: Date of Contract Unexpired Term months Moya Greene 15 July 2010 12 Matthew Lester 24 November 2010 12 The contracts have an indefinite term that may be terminated by the Executive Directors with six months written notice.
The Company can terminate contracts with 12 months notice.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
What happens when an Executive Director leaves?
Moya Greenes contract dates from her appointment to the Company in 2010.
As disclosed in the Prospectus, her contract may be terminated immediately by the Company.
Unless the Company terminates the contract due to gross misconduct or a material breach of the obligations under the service contract, it would be required to make a payment equalling 12 months base salary and an annual cash bonus referable to the 12 month period in which the termination occurs.
The assessment of the annual bonus award would be made in line with normal practice for determining bonuses.
The bonus provision is not replicated in any other contracts and would not be part of the terms of appointment of a new Executive Director.
Under Matthew Lesters service contract and the policy for future hires, the Company may terminate the contract by making a payment in lieu of any unexpired notice period.
The payment in lieu of notice is limited to a maximum of 12 months base salary.
Payment in lieu of accrued holiday, incidental expenses and outplacement services may be paid provided for as appropriate.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice would be paid as the Committee considers necessary.
The Company has an explicit policy on mitigation.
Future service contracts for Executive Directors will include express provisions for the use of monthly phased payments, a requirement for the departing executive to seek to mitigate any loss and a reduction in amounts paid if the executive obtains alternative paid employment.
70 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information The following table sets out the position under the incentive plans on cessation of employment: 1 2 Good Leaver Reason Other Reasons Committee Discretion Annual Performance conditions will No bonus payable for to determine that an executive is a good leaver: and bonus: cash be measured at the bonus year of cessation.
to determine whether to prorate the bonus to time.
The normal policy is that awards measurement date.
Bonus bonus will be prorated: provided that where any discretion is exercised, will normally be prorated.
there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Annual All subsisting deferred Lapse of any to determine that an executive is a good leaver: bonus: share awards will normally unvested deferred to vest deferred shares at the date of cessation of employment: deferred vest on the normal shareawards.
to determine whether to prorate the award to time.
The normal policy for share awards vestingdate.
existing awards is that they will not be prorated: provided that where any discretion is exercised, there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and In respect of the year of cessation, discretion may be exercised to provide a prorated deferred share award based on achievement of performance conditions as measured at the bonus measurement date.
LTIP Prorated to time and Lapse of any unvested to determine that an executive is a good leaver: performance in respect of LTIP awards.
to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of each LTIP award.
Awards cessation of employment: will vest on the normal to vest the shares on date of cessation of employment: vesting date and the holding period will apply, except to determine whether to prorate the award to time.
The normal policy is that in the case of death when awards will be prorated: and awards will vest on date of to disapply the holding period: provided that where any discretion is exercised, cessation of employment there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to and no holding period shareholders.
1 A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: injury, illhealth or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee, redundancy with the agreement of the Committee, retirement with the agreement of the Committee, the company employing the executive ceasing to be a member of the Group, the business or part of the business to which the executives office or employment relates being transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group, or any other reason where the Committee in its discretion so permit 2 Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons What happens in the case of a takeover?
The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below: Name of Incentive Plan Takeover Discretion Annual bonus: cash Prorated to time and performance The Committees normal policy is that it will prorate the bonus for time.
It is awards to the date of the takeover.
the Committees intention to use its discretion to not prorate in circumstances only where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full toshareholders.
Annual bonus: deferred Subsisting deferred share awards The Committee has discretion regarding whether to prorate the award to time.
share awards may vest on a takeover.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not prorate awards for time.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the circumstances of thetakeover.
LTIP Subsisting LTIP awards may vest The Committee will determine the proportion of the LTIP Award which vests on a takeover, prorated to time taking into account, among other factors, the period of time the LTIP Award has andperformance.
been held by the participant and the extent to which any applicable performance conditions have been satisfied at that time.
In the event of a demerger, the Committee has wide flexibility as to what should happen to awards, including whether all or part of an award should vest and on what terms, or whether an award should continue on amended terms.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 71 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report How do the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors compare with arrangements for employees across the Company?
When making decisions on the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, the Committee takes account of pay increases and incentive awards for all employees.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements, such as pay ratios, nor have employees been consulted directly on the policy.
A number of different incentive schemes operate across the Company: as far as possible the metrics used for the Executive Directors to assess performance for those schemes are cascaded through the Company.
What is the Companys policy on Directors holding external positions?
It is the Companys policy to allow each Director to accept one NonExecutive Director position on the board of another company.
The fees for such appointments are retained by the Executive Directors and are disclosed on page 78.
What is the Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors?
Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Policy Purpose & Link To Strategy Provides a level of fees to support recruitment and retention of NonExecutive Directors and a Chairman with the necessary experience to fulfil the leadership role required of them.
The Board is responsible for setting the remuneration of the The fees for NonExecutive Directors and the None NonExecutive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible Chairman are set at broadly the median of the for setting the Chairmans fees.
NonExecutive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional fees In general, the level of fee increase for the for chairmanship of committees.
The Chairman does not receive any NonExecutive Directors and the Chairman will be additional fees for membership of committees.
set taking account of any change in responsibility and will take into account the general rise in salaries Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the across the UK workforce.
comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
Fees are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the NonExecutive Directors and Chairman and NonExecutive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
72 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information What are the terms of appointment for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors?
The NonExecutive Directors including the Chairman are appointed by rolling letters of appointment.
The NonExecutive Directors are appointed for up to three years, subject to annual review and reelection.
One months notice is required by either party four months notice in the case of the Chairman.
The dates of the Chairmans and NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the following table.
Date of Contract Unexpired Term months Peter Long 18 June 2015 26 Donald Brydon 20 September 2013 Resigned 31 August 2015 John Allan 20 September 2013 Resigned 30 April 2015 Nick Horler 20 September 2013 4 Cath Keers 20 September 2013 4 Paul Murray 20 September 2013 4 Orna NiChionna 20 September 2013 4 Les Owen 20 September 2013 4 The Company follows the Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
Which of the Board members sit on the Remuneration Committee, and how frequently do they meet?
Number of meetings eligible to attend Number of meetings attended Total number of meetings 6 Chair Orna NiChionna 6 6 Members Donald Brydon 2 2 Peter Long 4 4 Paul Murray 6 6 Les Owen 6 5 1 Les Owen was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 16 December 2015 due to a prior engagement Meetings of the Committee were also attended, where relevant, by the Chief Executive Officer, Group HR Director, Company Secretary, the Group Reward and Recognition Director, and other members of senior management and representatives from the executive remuneration consultants PwC.
No individual was present when matters regarding their own remuneration were discussed.
What is the role of the Remuneration Committee?
To determine and recommend for the Boards approval the framework for the remuneration of the senior executives of the Group: To determine the individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary: and To agree the targets for any performancerelated incentive schemes applicable to senior executives.
The full Terms of Reference for the Committee can be found on our website: http: www.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 73 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration This part of the Directors' Remuneration Report sets out details of how the current Remuneration Policy has been applied for the Financial Year 201516.
This detailed information, set out below and on the following pages, has been audited by the Company's independent auditors, KPMG LLP.
The 201415 salary above is 9 12ths of 498,000 her previous salary and 3 12ths of 547,800.
Moya Greene has received no further increase in her base salary since 1 January 2015 2 Benefits include medical insurance and car allowance.
The figure for Moya Greene also includes return flights to Canada 3 Bonuses are determined based on the salary as at 1 January 2016 in line with the Companys policy for all staff.
All bonus payments are made in cash 4 The current year figure relates to the 2013 LTIP award.
The prior year figure relates to the 2012 LTIP award, which was based on performance to 29 March 2015 5 For Moya Greene, 40,000 is paid into the Royal Mail Defined Contribution Plan and the remaining 160,000 is paid as an allowance.
The full amount for Matthew Lester is paid as an allowance 6 Peter Long was appointed to the Board as a Non Executive Director on 18 June 2015 and became Chairman on 1 September 2015 7 Donald Brydon resigned from the Board on 31 August 2015 8 John Allan resigned from the Board on 30 April 2015 9 Jan Babiak resigned from the Board on 29 April 2014 The following sections outline how the data in the table above was determined, with regard to base salary and incentives.
Were base salaries reviewed in the year?
During the course of our Remuneration Policy review, the Committee considered the relative competitiveness of the current packages for our Executive Directors.
Although no change was made during 201516, it was agreed that Matthew Lesters salary should be increased from 1April2016.
The Committee agreed to apply an increase of 20,935 4.6 percent, taking his salary to 475,000.
This is the first salary increase that Matthew Lester has been awarded since April 2014.
Moya Greenes salary was left unchanged since January 2015.
This compares to salary increases for frontline staff over the last four years as shown below: % increase in salary 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 Moya Greene 0% 10% 0% 0% 0% Matthew Lester 4.6% 0% 0% 6% 0% Average frontline employee Under negotiation 2.8% 3% 3% 3.5% With this most recent change, Matthew Lesters total salary increases since joining Royal Mail in 2012 amount to 10.6 percent.
Our frontline employees have received an increase of 12.3percent up to 201516, with a further salary increase for the coming year still under negotiation.
74 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information What was the outcome of the annual bonus?
The performance period for the annual bonus is the same as the financial year, with achievement being assessed against a range of financial and nonfinancial targets, as set out in the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, and against a set of personal objectives.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the CEO and CFO was 100 percent of salary.
The table below contains a summary of the performance metrics which are used to determine the annual bonus award for the CEO and CFO.
Corporate Balanced Scorecard Segment Weighting Measure Threshold Target Max Actual Outcome Outcome 3% Total Group revenue m 8,708 8,886 9,067 9,191 5.0% 6% Group operating profit before 482 567 667 738 10.0% 25.0% Financial transformation costs m 6% Free cashflow m 165 206 258 315 10.0% 6% Productivity for delivery, 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.4 9.0% collections & processing % Efficiency 22.2% 6% UKPIL people costs m 4,928 4,829 4,733 4,764 8.7% 3% UKPIL nonpeople costs m 2,377 2,329 2,282 2,294 4.5% 3% First Class Quality of Service % 92 93.0 93.5 92.6 2.4% 3% Composite parcels Quality of 94.4 95.4 95.9 94.4 1.5% Service % Customer 9.9% 6% Mean business customer 75 76 77 76 6.0% satisfaction 3% Complaints '000 451 430 411 476 0.0% 6% Lost time accident rate 0 7 12 30 10.0% frequency rate reduction % 3% Sick absence rate % 4.70 4.50 4.30 4.51 2.9% People 15.9% 3% Employee engagement 55 57 58 57 3.0% 3% Employee customer focus % 68 69 70 67 0.0% See below for key highlights for more details on our Strategic 40% progress against our strategic 50% 100% 167% 150% 60.0% Objectives priorities.
Please see pages1617 % of the Scorecard 100% 133.0% of target 80% 63.8% of salary As a % of the bonus Strategic objectives: for the 201516 bonus, we placed a strong focus on incentivising delivery against our strategic priorities, accounting for 40percent of our corporate scorecard.
Summarised below are some of the key achievements that demonstrate the progress made during the year: Winning in parcels: in the UK we have maintained our preeminent position in parcels, with a three percent increase in parcel volume and one percent revenue growth.
We also have revenue growth of nine percent in GLS.
Key points include: Opening our network for longer by pushing back our latest acceptance times: Winning major new retail accounts including John Lewis, M&S, Urban Group and Waterstones and growing our business with existing customers, such as ASOS: Extending our tracked products services: e. g. Royal Mail International Tracked & Signed is now available to 54 destinations: and Extending our strategic service with Alibaba, linking Chinese exporters with UK online shoppers, allowing them to supply goods for UK delivery much more quickly.
Defending letters: over the year, addressed letter volumes decreased by three percent better than our forecast range of a four to six percent decline per annum due to: Promoting the value of marketing mail through MarketReachs MAILMEN campaign: and Implementing processes ensuring mail is handled efficiently e. g. improved large letter sorting machines and upgraded Optical Character Reading technology to sort more mail automatically.
Growing in new areas: this has seen us exploit our existing assets e. g. offering fleet maintenance services to third parties and make targeted acquisitions to explore opportunities for expansion in growing sectors of the market and or to further develop organisational capability in digital ecommerce space.
Acquisitions include Intersoft, NetDespatch and a stake in Market Engine.
This commercial activity is enabled by: A strategic focus on costs: we have scoped over 70 projects to target to avoid over 500 million of additional annualised costs by 201718 in UKPIL.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 75 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Investing in technology to support our transformation: we have commenced the roll out of new sorting machines for small parcels and 76,000 PDAs across our operation in addition to 3,000 finger scanners.
These investments will help to transform management and customer information e. g. with better tracking.
An engaged and motivated workforce: continued to promote culture change through many initiatives including joint training for over 6,000managers and union representatives in our Together for Growth programme promoting better dialogue and collaborative working.
Through this and other initiatives, only 325 days were lost due to unballoted strikes in 201516, a reduction of 37 percent compared to the previous year.
Personal objectives 20% of the bonus : both the CEOs and CFOs personal objectives are linked to their specific roles in the implementation of the strategy.
For the CEO: Seeking ways to mitigate increasingly competitive market place see above for evidence : Develop and implement workforce strategy including continue to deliver initiatives which support cultural change, enhancing managerial capability through a more effective talent pipeline and promoting diversity: Seeking new revenue sources: focusing on winning new customers in existing markets and looking to grow new revenue opportunities in new adjacent market: and Channel strategy: including expanding customer products and services including expanding our Local Collect network the largest UK network of click and collect locations and working with Post Office Limited, to improve our customers' experience.
For the CFO: Increasing efficiency and a wholesale review of all costs see above for evidence : Driving transformation initiatives including parcel automation see above for evidence : Channel strategy in partnership with the CEO: and Develop new revenue sources in partnership with the CEO.
Performance against these personal objectives has been assessed by the Committee and the following level of satisfaction determined: Personal objectives Max % of salary Actual % of salary Max % of salary Actual % of salary CEO 20% 18% CFO 20% 17% When added to the outcome of the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, the total bonus value, and the percentage of salary, were as follows: Moya Greene: 448,379, 81.9 percent of salary Matthew Lester: 367,116, 80.9 percent of salary What was the outturn of the 2013 LTIP?
The 2013 LTIP was granted as a cash award as it was made just prior to the IPO.
Following the IPO, the awards were converted into shares at a conversion rate of 5.29.
The award itself was based on achievement against two performance conditions to be achieved by 27 March 2016.
The tables below show the performance conditions and the vesting of this plan: Performance conditions: Target Vesting Performance measurement % of award straight line conditions Definition period Target sliding scale Operating Operating profit of the Group before interest and Financial year 201516 573m 654m 0 80 profit before taxation and before exceptional items as reported 654m 80 transformation in the Annual Report and Accounts of the costs Company, adjusted for such other items or events 654m 818m 80 100 as the Committee considers appropriate 818m 100 818m 982m 100 140 982m 140 1 ROTA Return Adjusted Operating Profit on total net Financial year 2015162 17.55% 0 operating assets of the Group as reported in the 17.55% 21.06% Restriction on vesting to 50% Annual Report and Accounts of the Company expressed as a percentage as determined by 21.06% No restriction on vesting theCommittee 1 The operating profit for ROTA purposes is adjusted for the interest cost charges embedded in the Groups operating leases 2 The average of 13 periods, being with the opening balance sheet plus 12 monthly periods 76 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Actual achievement: Resulting Share Awards 2013-14 LTIP vesting Measure Threshold Target Outcome as % of Target Moya Greene Matthew Lester Operating profit before 573m 818m 680m 83.1% 60,509 52,003 transformation costs ROTA 17.55% 21.06% 22.17% Operating profit before transformation costs, adjusted to reflect the pension service rate and foreign exchange rate assumed in the 2013 business plan The resulting share awards also include the dividends that were paid during the performance period, since IPO, and have been reinvested.
What previous LTIP awards remain outstanding at the year end?
The grant made for the 2014 LTIP remains outstanding.
The performance conditions are: Threshold Maximum Vesting Vesting Measure Weighting Performance % of award Performance % of award EPS 50% 9% CAGR 12.5% 21% CAGR 50% Operating profit margin before 35% 8.75% 35% transformation costs TSR versus FTSE100 15% Median 7.5% Top Quartile 15% excluding mining & financial companies The precise figures are deemed to be commercially sensitive but will be disclosed on vesting of the award The grant made for the 2015 LTIP remains outstanding.
The performance conditions are: Threshold Maximum Vesting Vesting Measure Weighting Performance % of award Performance % of award 40.8 pence 44.7 pence achieved in achieved in EPS 50% 12.5% 50% respect of 201718 respect of 201718 financial year financial year Operating profit margin before 35% 8.75% 35% transformation costs TSR versus FTSE100 15% Median 7.5% Top Quartile 15% excluding mining & financial companies The precise figures are deemed to be commercially sensitive but will be disclosed on vesting of the award The amount of the awards outstanding, for each of the Executive Directors, is shown in the following table, as at 27 March 2016: Maximum Maximum value of value of % vesting at award award threshold Final year of at grant at grant performance performance Number of Measure Year Type %salary 000 %of salary period shares 2014 LTIP shares 98% 488 28% 201617 108,357 Moya Greene 2015 LTIP shares 98% 537 28% 201718 105,057 2014 LTIP shares 98% 445 28% 201617 98,797 Matthew Lester 2015 LTIP shares 98% 445 28% 201718 87,080 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 77 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Following these LTIP awards, what are the current shareholding levels of the Board?
The table below sets out details of the shareholdings of the Executive and NonExecutive Directors at 27 March 2016.
There has been no change in the Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company between 27 March 2016 and 27 May 2016, except as noted in 2 below.
Conditional share awards subject to Number of Number of Value of Number performance shares owned shares owned shares owned of options conditions Shareholding outright on outright on outright on granted under LTIP 2013, 1 2 guideline 27 03 16 29 03 15 27 03 16 SAYE plan 2014, 2015 Chairman 3 Donald Brydon 15,530 15,530 Peter Long 50,000 Executive Directors Moya Greene 100% 3,862 3,759 18,333 590 279,294 Matthew Lester 100% 3,862 3,759 18,333 590 242,497 NonExecutive Directors 4 John Allan 3,257 3,257 Nick Horler 3,313 3,173 Cath Keers 3,030 3,030 Paul Murray 15,617 15,477 Orna NiChionna 3,313 3,173 Les Owen 3,030 3,030 1 Value based on closing share price on 27 03 16 2 Shares include those which have subsequently vested following the end of the performance period 3 Shareholding as at 31 August 2015 4 Shareholding as at 30 April 2015 Data is reported prior to the sale of shares required to cover tax obligations.
The impact of LTIPs previously vesting in cash rather than shares means that it will take some time for the Executive Directors to achieve the minimum required level of shareholding guideline.
Were any payments made for loss of office?
Donald Brydon resigned from his position as NonExecutive Director of the Board on 31 August 2015 and John Allan resigned from his position as a NonExecutive Director of the Board on 30 April 2015.
No payments were made in respect of loss of office.
Were any payments made to past Directors in the year?
Mark Higson left the Company on 24 July 2014: for the LTIPs that he participated in he was granted good leaver status.
The value of the 2013 award that he remained eligible for is based on the prior table outlining the vesting, and using a prorated calculation of 44 percent, being the time served during the performance period.
His total vested award is 23,133 shares, including reinvested dividends.
Using the closing share price on the day of vesting, this gives a value of115,457.
Did the Executive Directors receive fees from external appointments?
The Executive Directors are entitled to receive fees from external appointments.
Moya Greene was a Director at GreatWest Lifeco Inc. and received fees of 48,000 sterling equivalent for the last reported financial year.
Moya Greene stepped down from her position on the Board of GreatWest Lifeco in January 2016.
Matthew Lester is a NonExecutive Director at Man Group plc and received fees of 95,000 for the last reported financial year.
How does the change in the Chief Executive's pay compare to that for Royal Mail employees?
The table overleaf shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive's salary, benefits and annual bonus between 201415 and 201516, compared with the average for all employees across the Group.
78 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Chief Executive Officer Moya Greene Average Of All Employees 2015-16 2014-15 % Change 2015-16 2014-15 % Change 1 Salary 547,800 547,800 0.0% 28,988 28,690 1.0% 2 Benefits 31,000 29,000 6.9% 49 48 0.9% Annual bonus 448,379 432,762 3.6% 920 902 2.0% 1 Full time equivalent salary including overtime and shift allowances 2 All taxable benefits What has the pay for the CEO been over the last seven years?
The total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the last seven years is shown in the table below.
The annual bonus payout and LTIP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity is also shown.
160 140 TSR is the measure of the returns that a 140 company has generated for its shareholders, reflecting both movement in the share price 120 and dividends, which are assumed to be reinvested, over a period of time.
The following 112 100 104 104 graph shows the TSR of the Company, since 80 the date of the first day of trading, relative to the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index has 60 been chosen for comparison as the Company has been a constituent of the Index for the 40 majority of the period shown, and it provides a benchmark of the performance of other large 20 UKlisted companies.
0 11 October 2015 30 March 2014 29 March 2015 27 March 2016 Royal Mail FTSE 100 TSR over the Financial Year 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Royal Mail plc 71% 18% 12% FTSE 100 4% 7% 7% The chart and table show performance since the first day of conditional trading following the IPO 11 October 2013 : in accordance with the Code, they will show an increasing timeframe in the coming years Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 79 Total Shareholder Return rebased Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report 10,000 How much does Royal Mail spend on pay?
9,000 2014 15 The following chart shows the Company's 8,000 actual spend on pay for all employees relative 2015 16 to dividends, revenue and operating profit.
7,000 Revenue has been included because this measure 6,000 represents the amount of money the Company received during the year and provides a clear 5,000 illustration of the ratio of people costs to income.
4,000 Does the Remuneration 3,000 Committee seek advice from 2,000 internal and external advisers?
Revenue Adjusted People Costs Adjusted Operating profit Declared Dividends The Committee takes information and advice Note: the data used for Revenue and Adjusted Operating profit in the chart is not adjusted for foreign exchange from inside and outside the Company.
Internal movement, which is included in the outturn for the Scorecard support was provided by Jon Millidge, the Group HR Director supported by other members of the HR department as appropriate and Kulbinder Dosanjh, the Company Secretary.
No individual was present when matters relating to his or her own remuneration were discussed.
The Committee seeks advice from independent external advisers as appropriate.
The appointed advisers, PwC, were selected through a competitive tendering process, led by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and appointed in October 2014.
PwC provided information to the Committee regarding external market trends and advice on executive remuneration design.
The total fees paid for advice to the Committee were201,075.
PwC has provided tax, technology, finance, operations, regulatory and strategic consulting services to the Group in the financial year.
PwC are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and report directly to the Chair of the Committee.
The Chair of the Committee meets regularly with its advisers without Management present.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent.
2015 Voting By Shareholders The table below shows the advisory vote on the 201415 Remuneration Report at the AGM on 23 July 2015.
Number of votes cast For Against Withheld 525,689,690 499,637,018 26,052,672 152,184,245 95.04% 4.96% Approved by the Board on 18 May 2016 and signed by Orna Ni-Chionna Chair, Remuneration Committee 80 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 m
