Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy 1.
Introduction This Policy Report describes the principles and policy that will be used to set and manage the Directors remuneration with effect from 5 May 2017, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on that date.
It is intended these will apply over the next three years.
There are no significant changes to the content of this Policy, compared to the existing version which has been in place since it was approved by shareholders in May 2014.
Specifically, on the following pages 80 to 87 the Policy covers: How decisions on Directors remuneration will be made at RSA, and the philosophy and strategy which underpin these decisions: How remuneration packages will be structured for current, newly appointed and departing directors: What impact business and individual performance will have on the potential value of Executive Directors remuneration: What key contractual terms will apply to current and newly appointed directors: and RSAs engagement with its shareholders and employees on the subject of executive remuneration.
For reference, the Policy approved in 2014 is available at www.
com financial-reporting, on pages 71 to 79 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
RSAs remuneration principles The remuneration philosophy and strategy are directly informed by the business strategy.
The remuneration principles that the Group Remuneration Committee the Committee follows are: Remuneration is aligned to the long-term term interests of the Company, its business strategy and performance: The remuneration framework is designed to promote sound and effective risk management in line with the companys risk profile: Each component of the total remuneration package is simple and transparent, so as to be effective and understood by executives, shareholders and regulators: Pay is linked to performance, with variable remuneration fully contingent on the achievement of stretching shortand long-term objectives which directly support the achievement of strategic priorities and are aligned to shareholders interests: Executive Directors and other executives are required to hold a significant number of shares in the Company: they are encouraged to act in shareholders best interests by having a personal investment in RSA: Competitive remuneration packages are offered in order to attract, retain and reward the levels of high calibre talent which are essential to RSAs success in todays competitive global insurance market: and The remuneration framework is reviewed regularly to ensure that it continues to appropriately reward executives, while protecting shareholders interests and complying with principles of good risk management and reward governance and avoiding conflicts of interest.
80 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 3.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The following table sets out the components of the Executive Directors remuneration package and how they operate.
Purpose and Strategic Link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually considering Other than exceptional Performance conditions fixed factors including: market positioning, internal pay circumstances such as a do not apply, but business remuneration relativities, levels of pay for other RSA role change, salary and individual performance employees, inflation, affordability, job scale and increases will not exceed may be considered when This element is content, individuals experience and expertise.
the level of increases conducting the review designed to applied to other RSA process.
attract and Salaries are benchmarked referencing peer employees.
retain high group companies of comparable size and calibre complexity.
executives, There is no automatic right for any Director essential for to receive a salary increase.
ensuring RSAs Only annual base salary is pensionable.
An existing Executive Directors salary may be increased outside of the normal review cycle for material role changes.
Benefits Benefits typically cover the areas of: health and Benefits are valued None.
fixed well-being, leave of absence, car and business and determined with remuneration travel, sickness benefit, insurances, professional reference to the subscriptions, external advice and employee benchmarking peer This element discounts on certain insurance products.
groups and other forms part Home to work travel may be covered surveys reviewed of a market where appropriate.
competitive package and Some benefits are delivered as taxable Benefits are fixed supports the cash-in-lieu allowances.
Tax changes remuneration, however executive.
the cost to provide them can vary from year to Assistance would be available under RSAs year in line with market relocation policy or global mobility policy conditions, which should this be required.
therefore determine Expenses can be claimed according to RSAs the maximum value.
business and travel policies, including tax thereon where such expenses do not qualify for tax relief.
Executive Directors in participating countries can acquire shares in RSAs all-employee share plans Sharesave and Sharebuild, and those in the UK can participate in RSAs flexible benefits programme.
Benefits are determined with reference to market practice within the same peer group companies referred to in respect of salaries.
The Committee can also source information from bespoke benefit surveys to aid decision-making.
The Committee can amend any benefit or introduce new ones to ensure the remuneration package remains market competitive or to respond to regulatory, legal or best practice changes.
Pension Pension benefits take the form of employer No Executive Director will None.
fixed contributions to a pension plan, or a full partial receive a pension benefit remuneration cash allowance in lieu.
The RSA UK defined in excess of 30% of salary.
benefit pension schemes are closed to all This element new entrants and close to future accrual forms part effective 31 March 2017. of a market competitive Pension cash allowances are paid monthly package and and are subject to statutory deductions.
enables The Committee can adjust contribution or executives allowance levels to ensure these remain to save for appropriate and market aligned.
also agree changes to the terms of the Directors pension plan s, as appropriate.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and Strategic Link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Bonus Bonus awards are calculated against stretching The normal maximum Performance measures and Plan annual financial and non-financial targets, as well bonus opportunity is weightings are set each year variable as the performance of the individual executive.
considering the Companys remuneration strategy and shareholder 50% of the bonus is deferred into a share award An additional bonus interests, and will vary based This element for a period of three years, and 50% is awarded opportunity of up to a on each Directors area incentivises the in cash.
further 40% of salary of responsibility where achievement of may be available, at the Vested shares must be retained until the relevant appropriate.
short-term Committees discretion, shareholding level is reached, excluding any sold financial and to recognise highly Measures typically cover to satisfy statutory deductions.
The applicable non-financial exceptional profit, underwriting shareholding levels are detailed on page 86. goals, in line circumstances.
Full performance, risk Awards are subject to the Malus and Clawback with RSAs risk disclosure will be given management, expenses, Policy, which is reviewed annually, and is noted profile.
if an increased bonus capital and balance sheet on page 94. opportunity is applied.
strength, customer and Deferral into Dividend equivalents accrue on the deferred business sustainability, shares enhances Actual bonus awards shares, and are awarded at the end of the and objectives personal shareholder are linked to achievement deferral period.
as follows: The Committee can exercise discretion to change A majority weighting is Below threshold the bonus measures, how they are weighted, given to financial metrics.
no bonus calculated and targeted.
It can adjust bonus Measures can be assessed Threshold 10% of outcomes provided this is appropriate and in on a Scorecard basis.
maximum opportunity shareholders interests, including adjustment Performance is measured Target 50% of downwards for current or future risk exposure, over one financial year.
maximum opportunity and make such amendments as are necessary Maximum 100% of Targets are set with to respond to regulatory, legal or accounting maximum opportunity reference to the Groups requirements.
Shareholders will be notified operational plan.
if this has been carried out by disclosure in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
The performance measures and targets used to inform the 2016 bonus awards are on pages 90 to 92.
Long-term Conditional long-term incentive awards are The normal maximum Performance conditions Incentive Plan granted annually in the form of Performance LTIP opportunity is 230% are reviewed for each new LTIP Shares, and may vest wholly or partially subject of salary.
cycle and set in line with the variable to company performance conditions.
Companys operational plan, For recruitment purposes, remuneration long-term strategy and A two-year retention period applies to vested or in highly exceptional considering shareholder This element Performance Shares, excluding any sold to circumstances, such as for interests.
supports RSAs satisfy statutory deductions.
This applies retention, the Committee long-term while the Director remains in employment.
may agree to a conditional Measures are typically linked strategy, performance-related to value creation through Vested shares must be retained until the relevant performance award being made up to performance of the Groups shareholding level is reached, excluding any and priority to an additional 170% of share price, profit, capital and sold to satisfy statutory deductions, as detailed create salary.
This would be balance sheet strength and on page 86. shareholder considered a one-off underlying performance.
Awards are subject to the Malus and Clawback value through award.
Where an The LTIP will include at least Policy, which is reviewed annually, and is noted sustained exceptional award is two measures.
A majority on page 94. earnings and made, full disclosure will weighting is given to financial share price Dividend equivalents accrue during the be given on the rationale.
performance period and are added to Award vesting is linked to assessed through a the shares that vest.
The shareachievement against the Scorecard.
based nature of The Committee can act within the parameters of performance conditions The performance period the plan the Plans rules as approved by shareholders and as follows: will normally be at least enhances its performance conditions, enabling the LTIP to Below threshold three years for all measures, shareholder be appropriately administered under both 0% vesting with no re-testing.
The Threshold 25% vesting Shareholders will be consulted Committee can make such amendments as may Target 62.5% vesting if material changes to the be necessary to respond to legal, accounting or measures are proposed Maximum 100% regulatory changes.
Awards can be reduced or by the Committee.
vesting otherwise amended, provided the action is fair and justifiable, for example, to guard against a The measures and targets windfall award or the converse generated by an for the 2017-19 cycle are accounting treatment.
Vesting can be adjusted on pages 99 to 100. downwards for current or future risk exposure.
T he current LTIP, referred to as the Performance Share Plan 2014 PSP, was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
It is also used as a vehicle for granting deferred bonus shares, and restricted shares where these are awarded as part of an Executive Director buy-out as noted on page 84.
T he overall remuneration principles in this Policy apply across the Group.
Employee remuneration packages are set with reference to the relevant competitive markets in which the Group operates, and remuneration levels therefore reflect differences in location and job role.
All permanent UK-based employees are eligible to receive a bonus award, but deferral is only operated for senior leaders and where required by Solvency II.
The LTIP policy provisions are the same for all other participants who receive performance-based awards, with exception to the two-year post-vesting retention period which only covers Executive Directors.
LTIP award opportunities vary for individuals below the Board.
Members of the Executive Team and selected senior leaders across the Group are also required to hold shares in RSA.
82 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 4.
Illustrations of the Remuneration Policys application The following charts illustrate how Executive Directors remuneration potential changes according to varying levels of performance achievement, and the balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
The Committees aim is that superior levels of remuneration will only be paid in return for delivering superior levels of performance.
The variable element is fully flexible such that no award is guaranteed.
The assumptions used in preparing these charts are noted in the table below.
Figures relate to the 2017 financial year.
6,000 6,000 5,225 5,000 5,000 4,000 4,000 44% 3,573 3,000 3,000 2,575 40% 2,000 2,000 30% 42% 1,741 22% 1,351 38% 1,000 1,000 33% 638 25% 38% 100% 26% 0 100% 37% 25% 0 Below threshold On-target Maximum Below threshold On-target Maximum Scott Egan Stephen Hester Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration short term Variable remuneration short term Variable remuneration long term Variable remuneration long term Basis of Below threshold On-target Maximum calculation scenario scenario scenario Scott Egan Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Annual Bonus 80% of salary Annual Bonus 160% of salary LTIP 125% of salary LTIP 200% of salary Minimum remuneration receivable: this assumes 62.5% vesting, this assumes 100% Fixed remuneration i. e. half-way between the vesting of the award includes the value of base salary and 25% threshold vesting and in the 2017-19 grant pension for 2017, and benefits based 100% maximum vesting on the value included in the total Stephen Hester Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration remuneration single figure for 2016 Annual Bonus 80% of salary Annual Bonus 160% of salary Annual Bonus 0% of salary LTIP 144% of salary LTIP 230% of salary LTIP 0% of salary this assumes 62.5% vesting, this assumes 100% i. e. half-way between the vesting of the award 25% threshold vesting and in the 2017-19 grant 100% maximum vesting Note: 1.
There are no assumptions relating to share price growth or dividend equivalents included in the above scenarios.
The remuneration structure is intended to promote the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The table below illustrates when each variable component of the Executive Directors remuneration package would be delivered to them once any performance conditions or other restrictions have ended.
Variable remuneration component 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Clawback may apply Annual Bonus Plan 2017: cash award Malus adjustment may apply Annual Bonus Plan 2017: deferred shares Malus adjustment may apply Share retention period, clawback may apply LTIP 2017-19: performance share award Year of cash bonus award, or share award granting Year of share award vesting Year when any restrictions or clawback provisions have ended RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 000 000 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued 5.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee ensures a consistent and transparent approach is taken when appointing Executive Directors to the Board, as shown in the following table.
When a new Executive Director is recruited, the Committee will provide details of how the Policy has been implemented in respect of their appointment terms in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration component Notes on approach Base salary Set using the same approach as for existing Directors salary reviews.
The Committee can exercise discretion on the timing and level of salary reviews for newly appointed Directors reflecting the individuals development and performance in the role.
Benefits, pension Same as those offered to current Executive Directors, but the Committee may exercise judgement and contractual to flex the package to accommodate any specific terms bespoke to the individual, e. g. related to health, terms annual leave, pension or insurance benefits.
Where the Director is an internal appointee to the Board, or appointed following a corporate transaction, he she may be permitted to retain any legacy benefits or terms at the Committees discretion, or a buy-out may be made depending on the benefit type and circumstance.
Continuity of service with the Group will be maintained.
Incentive awards Under normal circumstances, a new Executive Director will be eligible for incentive awards in line with the usual policy as detailed on page 82.
However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher bonus opportunity of up to 200% of salary may be agreed and a performance-related LTIP award may be approved by the Committee in the Directors first year of service up to the limit of 400% of salary.
If the director is entered into an RSA LTIP and made an award of Performance Shares, these will be subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as applies to other plan participants.
Buy-outs Where the Director is an external appointment, the Committee may agree to a compensatory package reflecting the value and terms of incentives or benefits forfeited upon resignation.
This will only be permitted on receipt of reasonable evidence of loss.
Typically, the form of award that is being forfeited e. g. cash or shares will be replaced by the same form of award at RSA.
Performance-linked awards will normally only be compensated with Restricted Shares where a performance condition has been achieved or is nearing testing and there is a reasonable expectation of the vesting level.
Cash bonuses may be bought out with Restricted Shares in order to give the Director an early stake in RSA.
The Committee may agree to reduce the value of the compensatory award below the anticipated or actual loss value if the compensation is paid at an advanced date i. e. early settlement.
Any compensatory award using cash or restricted shares will always carry a service condition and an appropriate repayment schedule to protect shareholders interests.
84 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 6.
Service contracts and policy for payments on loss of office Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and conditions.
Contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Terms are designed to ensure fair treatment for departing executives while avoiding reward for failure.
Key terms Notes on approach Notice period No Director will be appointed on a notice period exceeding 12 months.
The current Executive Directors employment can be terminated by the Company or the individual, by the serving of 12 months notice.
In the case of summary dismissal, no notice will be served by the Company and no compensation will be paid in lieu of it.
Notice periods are approved by the Committee, and at its discretion, can be reduced in the event an Executive Director resigns and wishes to leave prior to the end of his or her contractual notice period.
The Company can require accrued annual leave related to the year of termination to be used during a notice period or garden leave, although payment of untaken days can alternatively be made in lieu.
Garden leave The Company has the contractual right to place the Executive Directors on garden leave for part, or all, of their notice period.
Salary, benefits and pension contributions continue during garden leave, but this time will not count towards the calculation of any Annual Bonus award that may subsequently be due.
Payment in lieu A Director may be paid in lieu of an unexpired portion of their notice period, covering base salary, of notice PILON pension and benefits, regardless of which party has served notice.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, PILON would be made on a phased basis subject to mitigation, and would be reduced or ceased if the Director starts to receive payment or remuneration from alternative employment.
Termination There are no pre-determined special provisions for Directors with regard to compensation payment for loss of office.
If a loss of office were to occur giving rise to a redundancy payment under prevailing employment legislation, the payment will be calculated taking account of the Directors length of service with the Group and his her annual gross basic salary as at their employment termination date.
In the normal course of events, reasonable professional fees may be paid in relation to a Directors employment termination.
No payment or compensation for loss of office made to any departing Director will be disclosed if it is less than 10,000 gross.
Executive Directors do not have terms which provide additional rights or payments to them in the event of a change of control, reconstruction or amalgamation of the Company.
Restrictive Restrictive covenants are in place to help protect RSAs interests should the individual leave the covenants Company for any reason.
External Executive Directors may hold one external non-executive position of a FTSE 100 company provided this appointments does not give rise to any conflict of interest, with the approval of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
If there is any remuneration arising from this role, the individual can retain it.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committees approach to incentive treatment for Executive Director leavers is set out in the following table.
Based on the leaving circumstances and having regard of shareholders interests, the Committee can exercise discretion to reduce or lapse awards or enable a proportion of awards to be received but only in highly exceptional circumstances and where appropriate.
Shareholders will be informed if discretion is applied, and details will be provided wherever possible.
Leaving circumstances Approach to Annual Bonus Approach to Deferred Bonus Shares Approach to unvested LTIPs Resignation or Not eligible if left or under Forfeited if dismissed for cause.
dismissal for cause notice at the date of payment.
Normally vest in line with the normal timetable if resignation.
Good leavers Eligible for the proportion Normally vest in line with Performance is tested in line At the Committees of the bonus year served.
discretion, and Performance is tested in line In cases of death in service In cases of death in service and, normally including with the normal performance and, with Committee discretion, with Committee discretion, such circumstances timetable.
medical severance, awards medical severance, performance as planned can vest sooner than the conditions can be tested early In cases of death in service retirement, death, scheduled date.
and awards vest sooner than and, with Committee discretion, disability medical the scheduled date.
medical severance, performance severance, transfers can be tested and awards made Awards vest subject to outside of the sooner than the scheduled date.
performance and time Group and pro-rating.
The Committee has the 1 redundancy discretion to make the final bonus award in cash and so waive deferral, subject to any regulatory requirements.
Change of control Normally good leaver treatment Awards can vest sooner than Performance conditions are applies as above.
tested early and awards can vest sooner than the scheduled date.
Where this is the case, The Committee can determine performance can be tested and whether a pro-ration for time is Vesting level determined with awards made sooner than the applied to these awards.
regard to performance and scheduled date.
T he Committee will make reasonable judgement on determining whether a Director qualifies for good leaver status by reason of retirement, by understanding the individuals intentions post employment termination and taking account of the context of his her departure from the Group.
Legacy incentive plans The Policy provides for any outstanding awards granted under legacy incentive plans to continue in place, although the current Executive Directors do not hold any such awards.
Existing incentive awards granted under the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in 2014 will continue in place.
Required shareholding RSA believes it is in shareholders interests for its executives to hold shares in the Company and build a stake in the business.
They are expected to retain vested shares arising from the Companys share plans to build and maintain a minimum shareholding level.
Shareholding provisions Executive Directors must build up a shareholding in RSA according to specified levels, expressed as a salary multiple.
With effect from 5 May 2017, the shareholding levels to be reached are: Group Chief Executive: 300% of salary Other Executive Directors: 200% of salary Executives have a targeted five years in which to build up their holding, commencing from the first date an unconditional share award is made to them as a Director.
No shares are to be sold until the holding level is reached, except where required to cover statutory deductions.
The shares which count towards the holding level are those held either in the executives own right or that of immediate family members and any awarded by RSA which cease to be bound by any performance or service conditions.
Vested Performance Shares count towards the holding level during the two-year retention period.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow shares to be sold in exceptional business or personal circumstances e. g. ill-health, divorce, financial hardship.
The shareholding levels were determined with reference to the practice across the Companys benchmark peer groups.
The Executive Directors shareholding levels as at 31 December 2016 are noted on page 95.
86 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 9.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors The following table outlines the components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration: Purpose and Strategic Link Operation and maximum level of remuneration Fees Non-Executive Directors aside from the Chairman receive a base fee, further fees are then This element ensures paid to reflect membership of a committee, and for chairing a committee.
A separate fee is competitive remuneration paid to the Senior Independent Director.
is paid to attract high The Chairman receives a fee for his role and this is set by the Committee.
calibre non-executives Director Fees will not exceed the limit stated in the Companys Articles of Association, and recognise their time as approved by shareholders.
Fees are paid in cash, subject to any required statutory deductions.
Fees are reviewed annually but an annual increase may not always be applied.
When assessing fee levels, account is taken of the required time commitment and the degree of expertise necessary to fulfil the particular role such as chairing a committee, The fees are benchmarked using the same peer groups as for the Executive Directors remuneration, and will have regard to the market median.
The Company has the discretion to introduce new fees or change the Non-Executive Directors terms.
Details of the Chairmans fee and the Non-Executive Directors fees earned for 2016 are noted on page 90.
Other key terms of office Non-Executive Directors may claim expenses in accordance with RSAs business and travel Reflects current good policies, including tax thereon where such expenses do not qualify for tax relief.
They receive no other benefits, but they can have RSA insurance products at a discount.
As the Non-Executive Directors are not employed by the Company, they are not eligible to receive a bonus award or participate in any of RSAs share plans.
Non-Executive Directors may hold shares in RSA but this is a personal matter and is not mandatory.
Non-Executive Directors are not employed by RSA, but they are engaged on a contract for services basis.
They are issued with an appointment letter for an initial three-year term, which can be extended with the Boards agreement.
The term of office can end prior to its expiry with either the individual or the Company serving one months notice, or three months in respect of the Chairman.
No notice will be served by the Company in the event of gross misconduct.
Appointment letters are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to disclose any conflicts of interest prior to, and during, the course of their tenure.
They will not participate in making a decision if any conflict is considered to impact their independence or limit their ability to discharge their duties to shareholders.
Since Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman receive only fees and expenses, no individual can have a loss of office payment, although payment in lieu of notice can be made.
Shareholder engagement The Committee is dedicated to maintaining an active and open dialogue with RSAs shareholders.
It believes that a transparent approach on all matters connected to boardroom pay is essential for building and maintaining trust and integrity.
Similarly, the Committee values constructive feedback, regardless of whether it is from an institutional investor or a retail shareholder.
When reviewing the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee actively engaged its leading shareholders, and took on board their feedback when assessing whether any changes were needed.
This dialogue continues the Committees regular engagement with shareholders, the Investment Association, Pension and Lifetime Savings Association and ISS, since the Policy was last approved by shareholders in 2014.
Consideration of remuneration of other employees To provide the Committee with context when considering Executive Directors remuneration, and when developing the Policy, it received background information on the remuneration of the Groups employees in general for example, information on employee salary increases.
In 2016, the Company was accredited by the Living Wage Foundation as a Living Wage Employer.
While employees are not specifically consulted on the Directors Remuneration Policy, RSA is actively committed to employee engagement and information is exchanged between employees, the Board and RSAs leaders.
This takes place through a range of forums and channels, for example, through employee surveys which include questions linked to reward and town hall meetings.
In addition, remuneration topics are discussed at the European Works Council EWC.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration 1.
Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of how the approved Remuneration Policy has been implemented for Directors in the financial year ended 31 December 2016, and how the Group intends to implement its Policy in 2017.
At the 2017 AGM, this report on pages 88 to 101, together with the Committee Chairmans letter on pages 76 to 78, will be put to an advisory vote.
Information about the Group Remuneration Committee Purpose of the Committee The Committee determines the remuneration and contractual terms for the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee detailed on pages 44 to 46.
It approves the fee and contractual terms of the Chairman whose profile is on page 44.
In addition, it maintains oversight of remuneration decisions for roles covered by specific remuneration requirements under Solvency II, including Material Risk Takers and key governance function holders.
The decisions the Committee makes are intended to promote the ongoing success of the Group, whilst upholding the interests of shareholders, regulators, customers and other stakeholders.
Consequently, it pays close attention to the Groups risk management policies, ensuring that these are considered alongside other relevant information so that its actions are balanced, appropriate and support the Groups strategy.
The Committee operates within an agreed set of terms of reference, which it reviews annually.
A copy of these terms can be viewed on the Groups website at: www.
com termsofreference or alternatively a paper copy can be requested in writing from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee members The Committee comprises a number of independent Non-Executive Directors who are called upon to exercise judgement on the setting and management of executive remuneration.
The Committees members in 2016 were: Hugh Mitchell Chairman, Kath Cates from 1 January to 30 June, Enrico Cucchiani, Isabel Hudson from 1 November, Joseph Streppel, Martin Strobel from 1 May and Johanna Waterous.
The number of meetings attended by each Director are shown on page 49.
Committee attendees At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and designated representatives from functions within the business attend meetings to advise on Group strategy, risk, performance, and HR policies and practices, and support the Committees work.
None of these individuals are present if their own remuneration is being discussed.
Committee attendees during 2016 included the Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary, Group Reward Director and Head of Executive Compensation.
Additional input was provided by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
88 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Committee advisers  PwC was appointed by the Committee as its independent adviser in September 2012.
It was selected following a market tender exercise.
During 2016, PwC also provided advice and consultancy services across the Group globally on matters including business processes and transformation, IT risk assurance, internal audit, corporate social responsibility, direct and indirect tax, and governance.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
In addition, the Committee has satisfied itself that the advice it receives is objective and independent as the firm has confirmed there are no conflicts of interests arising between it, its advisers and RSA.
The fee paid for services to the Committee in the year was 93,700 excluding VAT, based on a fixed fee for a defined scope of work and hourly rates for specific projects.
Committee meetings held in 2016 In 2016, the Committee met on six occasions and the table below summarises the matters it discussed.
Meeting Regular items Additional items February Review of Directors base salaries effective from 1 April 2016 Sharesave and Sharebuild two participation update Testing of the performance conditions underpinning the Annual Bonus Plan meetings 2015 and the LTIP cycle 2013-15: approval of the level of Directors awards Approval of 2016 incentive performance conditions Approval of the terms of the long-term incentive grant 2016 and Directors associated conditional share awards Review of Executive Directors personal goals for 2016 Review of the Directors Remuneration Report 2015 May Review of the 2016 long-term incentive grant and an update on dilution levels Corporate governance and Solvency II update Approval for a supplementary grant of conditional long-term incentive awards in November 2016 for non-Board employees August Review of Remuneration Policy and incentive structure for 2017 onwards None September Review of incentive performance measures for 2017 onwards Corporate governance update Review of Chairmans fee effective from 1 January 2017 Approval of Solvency II PRA return Approval to operate Sharesave and Sharebuild in 2016 Approval of revised Remuneration Committee terms of reference December Update on the Annual Bonus Plan 2016 and long-term incentive cycles 2014, Shareholder engagement 2015 and 2016 update Review of the draft Directors Remuneration Report 2016 Corporate governance update Update on the supplementary grant of conditional long-term incentive UK pension scheme update awards in November 2016 for non-Board employees Review of Committee meeting schedule for 2017 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued 3.
Total remuneration 2016: single figure tables audited The tables below set out the Directors total remuneration single figure for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
For comparative purposes, 2015 figures are also provided.
The fee structure applicable to Non-Executive Directors is detailed on page 100.
T axable benefits: This includes reimbursement in respect of travel and accommodation.
Stephen Hester received a car allowance and the use of a car and driver service which totalled 44,614 2015: 46,024, Scott Egan received a car allowance of 15,000, and each of the Executive Directors were provided with medical benefits and life cover.
Alastair Barbour received benefits of 17,057 2015: 20,936 for taxable travel where relief under HMRC rules is not available.
B onus: This comprises awards in respect of performance measures relating to the financial year shown, in accordance with the plan described on pages 90 to 92.
Half of the bonus shown is awarded in Deferred Bonus Shares which vest three years from the date of grant, and are subject to malus adjustment under the Groups Malus and Clawback Policy detailed on page 94.
L TIP 2016: Estimated value of Performance Shares and accrued dividend equivalents that are due to vest on 19 May 2017.
Estimate is given on the basis that the performance conditions have been satisfied as explained on pages 92 to 93, using an average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 5.5118.
L TIP 2015: Performance-based awards granted under the 2013-15 LTIP cycle lapsed in full on 3 April 2016.
Neither Scott Egan or Stephen Hester had awards in this cycle.
P ension 2016: Scott Egan was a member of the RSA Pension Scheme until March 2016 and received an employer pension contribution of 15% of salary.
He received a taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary from April 2016 onwards.
Stephen Hester received a taxable cash allowance of 30% of base salary.
The aggregate value paid by the Company into the RSA Pension Scheme a defined contribution plan for the Executive Directors in 2016 was 19,688 2015: 13,125.
No Executive Director has a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension in respect of their service with RSA.
O ther remuneration 2015: The figure for Scott Egan includes compensatory cash and share-based awards made as part of his appointment to replace cash awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer, detailed on page 73 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
S cott Egan was appointed as a Director effective 1 October 2015 on an annual salary of 525,000.
The salary value shown in the table for 2015 is the pro-rated amount based on his appointment date.
S tephen Hester received an annual base salary of 950,000 from 1 January to 31 March 2016.
This increased by 2% to 969,000 effective 1 April 2016, as detailed on page 80 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
R ichard Houghton resigned from the Board effective 7 May 2015 and his employment ended effective 10 July 2015.
Isabel Hudson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 1 August 2016.
Martin Strobel was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 1 May 2016.
Components of variable remuneration Annual Bonus Plan 2016 audited For the 2016 financial year, the Executive Directors Annual Bonus Plan consisted of financial and business targets aligned to the Groups operational plans.
These included: Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE, Group underlying Profit before Tax PBT, Group Combined Operating Ratio COR, a Business Review Scorecard and role-specific personal objectives.
Overall, these targets required demanding business improvements from the prior year.
The normal maximum bonus opportunity was 160% of salary, of which half of any award is deferred into RSA shares for three years.
Bonus awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, as detailed on page 94.
In determining 2016 bonus awards under this Plan, the Committee considered how goals had been met, ensuring that performance also took account of key risk factors.
90 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial performance 40% weighting achieved 40% As shown in the table below, RSAs financial performance for each metric was excellent, leading to an outcome under this element of 40%.
Record underwriting and combined operating ratio results and a 42% increase in underlying EPS highlight the significance of the 2016 performance in tough market conditions.
Business Review performance 30% weighting achieved 30% The Business Review Scorecard is designed to capture progress against underlying improvements targeted by RSAs plans.
Achievement is measured against a range of objective measures, whilst being assessed using judgement in the round.
It will vary from the financial metrics outcome if these are considered over or under representative of the underlying actions of management and their results.
The Committee assessed the 2016 performance taking into account capital, risk and disposal achievements together with the progress delivering performance improvement targets.
Achievement under the Scorecard was assessed to have been exceptional across the areas targeted.
In performance terms, and despite soft market conditions, underwriting profit rose sharply to all time record levels for RSA.
Attritional loss ratio improved 1.5% points vs 2015 and 0.9% points vs Plan.
Controllable cost savings reached 292m, and Group Controllable Expenses were 17m better than Plan.
Cost ratios also improved vs prior year.
From a strategic perspective, the focus strategy is already paying off in terms of performance.
The final disposals to implement the strategy were successfully closed Russia & Latin America, raising to 1.2bn total disposal proceeds, well above expectations.
Solvency II has bedded in well and the Groups capital position strengthened vs last year and vs published targets despite intense market volatility.
Debt buyback was successfully completed.
UK pension risk reduction was also executed well.
Additionally, reflected in the year end accounts is the pending sale of UK legacy liabilities announced in February 2017 which is of major benefit to the Company.
Taking the above into account, the Committee noted exceptional progress vs prior year and plans, and assessed there being a close relationship between the headline financial outcomes for the year and the underlying measures of performance and management activity.
As a result, an award of 30% out of a maximum score of 30% in this category was made.
In light of Mr Egans more recent appointment in Q4 2015, giving less time to influence the 2016 results, the Committee applied a scale back to Mr Egans award, as shown in the table below.
Bonus 2016 Weighting Scott Egan Stephen Hester performance 2015 % of % of % of 1 measures Result 2016 Target Actual maximum maximum maximum Group Threshold 10.2% underlying 9.7% Target 11.3% 14.2% 20% 20% 20% ROTE Maximum 12.4% Group Threshold 394m underlying 417m Target 438m 556m 10% 10% 10% PBT Maximum 482m Group COR Threshold 96.4% 96.9% Target 95.4% 94.2% 10% 10% 10% Maximum 94.4% Business Capital metrics: 4 Review Solvency II coverage ratio N A 130% 158% 30% 23% 30% Scorecard TNAV:NWP 42% 35% 45% S&P credit rating A stable Astable A stable 2 Group controllable expense ratio: 25.6% 23.4% 23.3% 2 Group controllable expenses: 1,767m 1,532m 1,515m 3 Attritional loss ratio: 50.8% 50.2% 49.3% Strategic plan initiatives: See narrative See narrative Personal Scorecard See narrative 30% 23% 30% Total % of maximum 100% 86% 100% Total % of annual base salary 137.6% 160.0% 5 Bonus receivable 722,400 1,550,400 Notes: 1.
D uring the year, targets for the financial metrics were reviewed with the thresholds being made tougher.
For reference, the original thresholds set at the beginning of the year for the measures were: Group underlying ROTE 9.1%, Group underlying PBT 350m, Group COR 98.4%.
2015 results are adjusted for the timing of business disposals.
Defined on a Core Group basis excluding Claims Handling Expenses which are part of the expense measure.
Modified down from 30% to 23% in light of Mr Egans tenure in role, giving less time to influence the 2016 results.
H alf of the bonus is awarded in Deferred Bonus Shares which vest three years from the grant date, and are subject to malus adjustment as on page 94.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Personal element This element focuses on personal performance vs the priorities set by the Board for the Executive Directors in 2016.
The Committee noted strong achievement in respect of these areas, as shown in the following tables: Scott Egan, Group Chief Financial Officer 30% weighting achieved 23% Overview Progress Scotts objectives covered business Financial and capital results as set out above.
planning, benchmarking and functional Completed disposals, pension risk reduction and debt buyback, and led delivery improvements, delivering financials and of the UK legacy sale.
capital plans, and risk and stakeholder Functional improvements and transformation programme rated green.
In his first full year as CFO, Scott has grown substantially, becoming increasingly influential to results and exceeding expectations.
Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive 30% weighting achieved 30% Overview Progress Stephens objectives focused on strategy, Stephen has been a driving force in RSAs 2014-16 improvements.
All primary financial performance, risk management, objectives for 2016 were met or exceeded as detailed elsewhere in this stakeholder relations and culture team Annual Report.
In relation to the intangible achievements of RSA under Stephens leadership, there is particular appreciation of the team building and culture change driven by him that is transforming RSAs performance capabilities and ambitions vs prior years.
As a result, Mr Hester was a awarded a total bonus of 100% of the maximum, and Mr Egan 86% of the maximum.
Long-term incentive awards vesting from 2014-16 cycle audited Conditional long-term incentive awards were granted in 2014.
In 2017, these Performance Shares will partially vest, based on the achievement of the performance conditions, as shown below: Vesting Performance measures 201416 Threshold target: 25% vesting Maximum target: 100% vesting Actual Weighting % of maximum 1, 2 Relative TSR RSAs TSR is equal to the RSAs TSR outperforms the Below 33.33% 0% unweighted index of unweighted index of comparators index comparators by at least 7% per annum 22.5% compound over three years or exceed the TSR of the highest performing company in the index 3 Group underlying ROTE 11% 16% 11.2% 33.33% 9.33% 4 Business Review Scorecard See narrative See narrative See 33.33% 33.33% narrative Total 100% 42.7% Notes: 1.
P rovisional result: Relative TSR in the 2014-16 cycle is measured over a period which began four weeks prior to the grant date in 2014 and will end on 31 March 2017: this was to ensure the performance period did not begin during a time when shareholders were not in possession of the full information on RSAs performance and strategy.
Therefore, the vesting outcome on the TSR measure will be finalised following 31 March 2017.
The provisional vesting outcome shown is based on the position as at 21 February 2017 when RSA TSR was 26% and the index of comparators was 44%.
If there is any difference between the provisional outcome and the final outcome, it will be shown in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2017.
R elative TSR index of comparators includes: Admiral, Allianz, Aviva, Chubb formerly ACE, Direct Line, Gjensidige Forsikring, Hiscox, Intact, Mapfre, QBE, Topdanmark, Tryg and Zurich.
Amlin and Catlin had originally been included in the index, however they were delisted during the performance period and so the Committee determined to exclude them from the calculation.
A straight-line calculation is applied to determine the portion of awards that vest for performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
G roup underlying ROTE is calculated on a three-year average basis.
A straight-line calculation was applied to determine the portion of awards that vest for performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
T he Scorecard outcome has been determined by the Committee on a provisional basis only.
The final outcome will be confirmed shortly after the Annual Results are published.
If there is any difference from the provisional outcome, it will be shown in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2017.
92 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Business Review Scorecard The LTIP Business Review Scorecard vesting outcome was determined by the Committee assessing the Companys progress since the turnaround plan was actioned in 2014 and focusing on the cumulative result over three years of the action plan measures, particularly relating to strategy implementation, capital recovery and earnings improvement.
A related assessment has been carried out annually as part of Annual Bonus setting with Group Chief Executive awards of 25 30, 27 30 and 30 30 respectively, as evidence of successful delivery became successively clearer.
Metrics considered by the Committee are set out in the following table.
During the 2014-16 period, the Committee assessed the Scorecard performance as outstanding.
As is normal in turnaround situations, it has not been until 2016 that financial results and share price movement have more fully reflected the effort and impact of the turnaround actions that commenced in 2014.
As a result, the overall expected vesting level of the 2014-16 LTIP grant is just 42.7%.
Nevertheless, the actions taken during the period are having exceptional impact on the companys performance which the Committee is recognising in its assessment of the Business Review element of the LTIP Scorecard.
In challenging market conditions, underwriting performance went from loss making to record levels.
Attritional loss ratio improved by an unprecedented 4.1% points.
The cost savings target set in 2014 was substantially exceeded, and targets revised upwards three times.
Disposal proceeds substantially exceeded expectations, as did capital improvement across all measures.
Strategic priority Key performance indicators Target Actual Capital 2014 2015 2016 1 IGD coverage ratio 175% 224% 216% 1 ECA coverage ratio 115% 131% 140% 1 Solvency II coverage ratio 130% 143% 158% 2 TNAV:NWP 35% 39% 42% 45% 201416 S&P credit rating Astable A stable Business performance 201416 3 Cumulative earnings 907m 1,122m 4 TNAV growth per share 103.4p 146.2p 2 Controllable cost savings 180m by 2016 292m 2 Disposal proceeds 1,024m 1,239m 2014 2015 2016 2, 5 Attritional loss ratio Improvement on prior year 51.9% 50.8% 49.3% 2013: 53.4% Notes: 1.
S olvency II coverage ratio was introduced as a measure of capital strength to reflect the new Solvency II regime implemented from 1 January 2016, replacing IGD and ECA, as noted in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts on page 67.
T hese indicators were not separately listed in the Scorecard Key Performance Indicators but were key underlying targets and reviewed by the Committee as additional context on the transformation.
D efined in common with the underlying ROTE measure of earnings adjusted for disposal gains and restructuring charges which were also key management activities.
The Committee assessed all other items falling outside of this definition to determine if they should adjust the Committees view of progress upwards or downwards namely non-cash, non-capital accounting items.
Comparison is versus original 2014-16 Plans incorporating the planned costs and benefits of the additional cost programmes announced subsequently.
T NAV growth per share assessed consistent with the methodology in note 3.
Market volatility FX, Bonds, Pensions was separately considered, though the target was exceeded with or without this adjustment.
D efined on a Core Group basis excluding Claims Handling Expenses which are captured in the expense measure.
Vesting overview Estimated value 1 Director Granted number of shares Vesting number of shares including dividend equivalents Stephen Hester 585,431 249,784 1,453,258 Notes: 1.
E stimate includes vesting Performance Shares valued at 1,376,760 and accrued dividend equivalent shares valued at 76,498 which will be added to the awards that vest.
Valued using an average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 5.5118.
Scott Egan was appointed in 2015, and does not have awards in this cycle.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentive awards granted in 2016 audited Conditional long-term incentive awards were made to the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer on 4 March 2016.
These Performance Share awards will vest in 2019, subject to the satisfaction of the plans performance conditions based on Group underlying ROTE, relative Total Shareholder Return and a Business Review Scorecard.
The Scorecard measures a range of indicators on an underlying basis, and includes: growth in Tangible Net Asset Value per Share TNAV, cumulative earnings, controllable expenses, attritional loss ratio and a range of capital strength metrics including the ratio of TNAV:NWP and Solvency II coverage ratio.
The targets for the performance measures are shown in the following table.
Achievement against the Business Review Scorecard will be evaluated using a performance framework whereby each metric will be reviewed against its target, and judgement in the round used to determine the level of vesting, taking into account underlying business performance indicators and any material risk items.
The specific targets cannot be disclosed prospectively for commercial reasons, including price sensitivity.
A performance narrative will be given to summarise the level of vesting on the Business Review Scorecard once the performance conditions have been tested.
Performance measures 201618 Weighting Threshold target: 25% vesting Maximum target: 100% vesting 1 Relative TSR RSAs TSR is equal to the RSAs TSR outperforms the unweighted index unweighted index of comparators of comparators by at least 7% per annum 22.5% compound over three years or exceeds the TSR of the highest performing company in the index 2 Group underlying ROTE 11% 16% Business Review Scorecard Commercially sensitive Commercially sensitive Notes: 1.
R elative TSR index of comparators includes: Admiral, Allianz, Aviva, Chubb, Direct Line, Gjensidige Forsikring, Hiscox, Intact, Mapfre, QBE, Topdanmark, Tryg and Zurich.
G roup underlying ROTE will be calculated on a three-year average basis.
A straight-line calculation is applied to determine the portion of awards that vest for performance between threshold and on-target, and between on-target and maximum.
The average required for on-target vesting 62.5% vesting is less than the mid-point of the 11-16% range and is considered commercially sensitive because it is set reflecting a growing performance expectation over the three years, and therefore signals the Groups plan for the period.
Disclosure will be provided retrospectively following the end of the performance period.
The awards granted are set out in the table below: 1, 2 Performance Shares 3 4 Director Basis of award Number of shares Face value Scott Egan 200% of salary 238,030 1,050,000 Stephen Hester 230% of salary 505,236 2,228,700 Notes: 1.
T he performance measures are Group underlying ROTE, Relative TSR and a Business Review Scorecard weighting each.
T he performance period is three years and ends on 31 December 2018.
I f threshold performance is achieved, 25% of the number of shares shown will vest.
T he face value of the award is calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met, multiplied by the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share averaged over the five business days preceding the date of grant 4 March 2016, of 4.4112.
Malus and Clawback Policy The Group operates a Malus and Clawback Policy which is reviewed annually, as set out in the Remuneration Policy on page 82.
In summary, for awards issued in 2014 onwards, the Committee has the ability to reduce or forfeit awards that have yet to be paid or vest in the case of shares, to delay the payment or vesting date or to amend another form of award or benefit which has yet to be received malus adjustment.
For cash bonuses awarded for 2015 performance onwards, and long-term incentive awards granted from 2015 onwards, the Committee may also recover sums already paid to Executive Committee members if it considers it appropriate to do so clawback.
This can be applied during a two-year period after receipt in the case of cash bonuses or vesting in the case of long-term incentives.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback may apply are outlined in the table below: Malus adjustment Clawback Material financial misstatement of results for any financial year Material financial loss of a business unit as a result or the material financial loss under-performance of a business of circumstances that should reasonably have been unit that could have been reasonably risk-managed risk-managed by the individual Error or material misstatement leading to an overpayment Material error or financial misstatement of results which has resulted in an overpayment Employee misconduct, including regulatory or other breaches Gross or serious employee misconduct.
Legitimate concerns regarding an employees conduct, capability or performance Actions leading to reputational damage Deterioration in the financial health of the Company leading to severe financial constraint Any other situation as the Committee may reasonably determine.
94 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 5.
Directors shareholding audited Executive Directors shareholding The table below shows the Executive Directors shareholding and their unvested scheme interests in the Companys incentive plans.
Scott Egan and Stephen Hester joined RSA in October 2015 and February 2014 respectively and continue to build up their shareholdings to the target levels shown below within the targeted five-year period.
Unvested scheme interests 1 Shares owned outright held at 31 December 2016 Required shareholding level Share awards Shares counting Shareholding Shares Shares Share awards not subject towards Shareholding level at held at held at subject to to shareholding at level to be 31 December 1 January 31 December performance performance 31 December reached 2016 2 3 4 5 Director 2016 2016 conditions conditions 2016 Valuation % of salary % of salary 6 Scott Egan 29,956 238,030 29,956 175,542 200% 33% Stephen Hester 21,500 121,500 1,759,869 242,047 121,500 711,990 300% 73% Notes: 1.
I nterests of Directors in Ordinary Shares of 1.00 each of the Company, including those of closely associated persons.
As at 22 February 2017, the interests in Ordinary Shares of Scott Egan and Stephen Hester have not changed since 31 December 2016.
I ncludes Performance Shares as detailed on page 96.
I ncludes Deferred Bonus Shares as detailed on page 96.
T he valuation is against the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share as at 31 December 2016 of 5.86 per share.
T he gross annual base salary as at 31 December 2016.
A pplies with effect from 5 May 2017.
The level was previously 150% of salary.
F ull details of all Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection by shareholders at the AGM and at the Companys registered office during standard business hours.
The Directors had no share options that vested and remained unexercised, or were exercised in the year.
Non-Executive Directors shareholding Shares held at Shares held at 1 1 Director 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 Alastair Barbour 12,039 12,039 Kath Cates 4,124 4,124 Enrico Cucchiani 2 Isabel Hudson 114 3,832 Hugh Mitchell 8,552 8,552 Martin Scicluna 14,303 14,303 Joseph Streppel 4,125 4,125 3 Martin Strobel 12,000 Johanna Waterous 12,419 18,069 Notes: 1.
As at 22 February 2017, the interests in Ordinary Shares of the current Non-Executive Directors have not changed since 31 December 2016.
I sabel Hudson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 1 August 2016.
The table above shows her shareholding as at that date and not 1 January 2016.
M artin Strobel was appointed as a Non-Executive Director effective 1 May 2016.
The table above shows his shareholding as at that date and not 1 January 2016.
F ull details of all Directors shareholdings are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection by shareholders at the AGM and at the Companys registered office during standard business hours.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Scheme interests held by Executive Directors Details of Executive Directors existing awards in the Companys share plans for the financial year are set out in the following table.
The interests shown were granted under the long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the Performance Share Plan PSP.
T he Company granted conditional awards over Ordinary Shares under the PSP at nil cost.
The number of shares was calculated based on the mid-market closing price averaged over the five business days preceding the grant date of 4 March 2016, of 4.4112.
R estricted Shares were granted to Scott Egan as part of his appointment as a compensatory award in respect of awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer, as detailed on page 73 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
A portion of the shares were sold to cover statutory deductions during the year, the rest were retained in line with the shareholding requirements.
P erformance Shares granted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 have performance conditions of Group underlying ROTE, Relative TSR and a Business Review Scorecard weighting each.
The dates by which performance conditions are to be met is as follows: 2014 awards by 31 December 2016 except the Relative TSR condition, the performance period for which began four weeks prior to the grant date and will end on 31 March 2017, 2015 awards by 31 December 2017 and 2016 awards by 31 December 2018.
Def erred Bonus Shares vest three years from the date of grant, and are subject to malus adjustment as detailed on page 94.
N o other Directors of the Company held long-term incentive scheme interests during the year.
Payments to Directors for loss of office audited There were no payments to Directors for loss of office in 2016.
Payments to former Directors audited No payments were made to former Directors in 2016.
96 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 8.
Historical TSR and executive remuneration The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE 100 Index and the Relative TSR peer group used as an LTIP performance measure, the constituents of which are noted on page 92.
The FTSE 100 Index is included as it comprises the 100 most highly capitalised companies in the UK market, of which RSA was a member in 2016.
RSAs TSR performance relative to the indices is shown over the eight years from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2016.
The graph reflects the change in value of Ordinary Shares in a company over time, as represented by a hypothetical 100 holding in the shares.
Any distribution of dividends is included.
Data was provided by Datastream.
Value of hypothetical 100 holding 280 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 FTSE 100 RSA LTIP Peer Group RSA The table below shows the total remuneration for the incumbents appointed as the most senior Executive Director over the past eight years.
The annual bonus award rates include both cash and deferred shares components.
M artin Scicluna was appointed Executive Chairman effective 13 December 2013 until 4 February 2014.
S tephen Hester was appointed Group Chief Executive effective 5 February 2014 and did not have any long-term incentive awards in the 2012-14 and 2013-15 cycles.
D etails of the 2016 figures are given on pages 90 to 93.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued 9.
Percentage change in remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus for the individual undertaking the most senior Executive Director role in the Company compared with UK employees on average between 2015 and 2016.
The UK population was selected for this comparison because pay changes within RSA vary significantly, according to local market factors.
The Group Chief Executives role has a Group-wide remit, but is located in the UK.
Salary Taxable and Fees benefits Bonus All employees 2% 2% 34% Most senior Executive Director 2% -3% 33% 10.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the all-employee pay spend and returns to shareholders by way of dividends for 2016.
Figures from 2015 are provided for comparison.
The employee pay data covers the Groups employees globally, and therefore includes the impact of exchange rate changes.
Levels of inflation vary across the different countries in which the Group operates and, therefore, salary changes will be reflective of local market conditions.
% difference m 2015 2016 from prior year 1 Total Spend on Employee Pay 948 804 -15% 2 Total Distributions to Shareholders 65 131 102% Notes: 1.
I ncludes wages and salaries, social security costs, pension costs and share-based payments as shown in the notes to the Financial Statements on page 137.
I ncludes the figures as shown in the notes to the Financial Statements on page 140.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2017 This section outlines how the Committee intends to implement the Directors Remuneration Policy during 2017.
Base salary, benefits and pension The Committee reviewed the Executive Director salary levels, taking into account the average reviews applied elsewhere in the Group, including those for employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, and UK inflation figures.
It referenced a range of information including market data from two benchmarking peer groups of listed international insurers and FTSE companies of a broadly comparable market capitalisation to RSA, excluding banks and heavy industries.
This is the first time Scott Egans salary has been reviewed since his appointment in 2015.
The table below shows the salaries that will apply from 1 April 2017.
The level of increase is in line with those for other UK-based employees this year: Annual base salary effective Annual base salary effective Director 1 April 2016 1 April 2017 % change Scott Egan 525,000 538,125 2.5% Stephen Hester 969,000 993,225 2.5% In respect of benefits and pension, the Policy will continue to be implemented the same way as it was at the end of 2016.
How will incentives be aligned to the business strategy in 2017?
The table below shows how the business strategy, and the key performance indicators which underpin it, are reflected in the Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentive performance measures for Executive Directors in 2017: Strategic priorities Annual Bonus Plan 2017 Long-term incentive cycle 2017-19 Group underlying ROTE Shareholder Relative TSR Value Profitability Group underlying PBT Group underlying ROTE Group COR Risk and Business Scorecard: Resilience Risk and Resilience: Regulatory capital ratios, credit rating, capital actions, risk management: Underlying Underlying Performance: Attritional loss ratio, total controllable costs cost ratios, key business improvement projects: Performance Business Business Sustainability: Customer franchise and other relevant actions related to the Companys long-term success including People Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility 98 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Annual Bonus Plan 2017 As noted in the Committee Chairmans letter on pages 76 to 78, the Annual Bonus Plan is aligned with the core priorities for focus in 2017.
The Executive Directors will be expected to deliver against stretching targets, which are geared towards making continued performance improvement.
They are targeted against the performance of the entire Group, taking into account their contribution thereto.
The Business Scorecard component focuses on key areas of management activity essential to the success of the Company including Risk and Resilience, Underlying Performance and Business Sustainability including Customer franchise.
The Personal Scorecard consists of SMART objectives bespoke to each Director, with a focus on both what is achieved and how goals are delivered.
Half of the total bonus will be awarded in cash where clawback can apply, the balance is deferred into shares for a three-year period where malus adjustment can apply.
The Committee will assess performance for 2017 once the financial year has ended, taking into account material risk factors.
All of the bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive because they signal the Groups forward plan for the year, and therefore they are not provided in this document.
Disclosure will be provided in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, to the extent that the targets do not remain commercially sensitive.
The table below sets out the structure of the Executive Directors bonus plan for 2017: Weighting Maximum opportunity Bonus performance measures % of bonus % of salary Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE 20% 32% Group underlying Profit before Tax PBT 10% 16% Group COR 10% 16% Business Scorecard 30% 48% Personal Scorecard 30% 48% Total 100% 160% Long-term incentive 2017-19 The plan directly supports the building of shareholder value by targeting Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE, relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and a Business Scorecard.
For the 2017 grant, performance measures will be assessed against a performance period of 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019, taking into account underlying business performance and material risk factors.
To maintain an appropriate degree of stretch in the targets, the three-year average required for an on-target level of vesting on the Group underlying ROTE element is positioned requiring improved underlying performance vs 2016 record results.
The performance range has been increased to 12-18%, compared to 11-16% for the 2016-18 cycle.
The Business Scorecard measures a range of indicators on an underlying basis, and includes: regulatory capital ratios, credit rating, capital actions, risk management, attritional loss ratio, total controllable costs cost ratios, key business improvement projects, customer franchise and other relevant actions related to the Companys long-term success.
In contrast to the Business Scorecard in the Annual Bonus, which will capture calendar year actions and outcomes relative to RSAs business plan, the long-term incentive Scorecard will capture progress over three years vs the Companys strategy and three-year Operating Plans.
The Business Scorecard will be evaluated using a performance framework whereby each metric will be reviewed against its target, together with any other aspects connected to the business performance and judgement in the round used by the Committee to determine the level of vesting.
A performance narrative will be given to summarise the level of vesting on the Scorecard once the performance conditions have been tested.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee has approved in principle that Stephen Hesters Performance Share opportunity in the 2017-19 LTIP grant will be 230% of salary at maximum vesting, which is the usual level of award for the Group Chief Executive: and that Scott Egans opportunity will be 200% of salary at maximum vesting.
Executive Directors must retain all vested shares arising from this incentive plan for two years post-vesting except those sold to cover statutory deductions, and they are subject to the Groups Clawback Policy.
The table below summarises the LTIPs structure.
Performance measures 201719 Weighting Threshold target: 25% vesting Maximum target: 100% vesting 1 Relative TSR RSAs TSR is equal to the RSAs TSR outperforms the unweighted index unweighted index of of comparators by at least 7% per annum comparators 22.5% compound over three years or exceeds the TSR of the highest performing company in the index 2 Group underlying ROTE 12% 18% Business Scorecard Commercially sensitive Commercially sensitive Notes: 1.
T he TSR index of comparators for this cycle includes: Admiral, Allianz, Aviva, Chubb, Direct Line, Gjensidige Forsikring, Hiscox, Intact, Mapfre, QBE, Topdanmark, Tryg and Zurich.
The average required for on-target vesting 62.5% vesting is positioned requiring demanding increases in underlying performance vs 2016 and is considered commercially sensitive because it is set in line with, and therefore signals, the Groups forward plan for the period.
Non-Executive Directors fees The Committee reviewed the Chairmans fee in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, and did so referencing a range of information including market data on fees taken from the same peer groups used to benchmark the Executive Directors salaries, UK inflation figures and the average reviews applied elsewhere in the Group.
The fee, which has remained unchanged since Mr Sciclunas appointment in January 2013, will rise by 5% from 400,000 to 420,000 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, the Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
The Chairman and Board minus the Non-Executive Directors discharges its accountability for setting and managing Non-Executive Directors remuneration: it will do this when their contractual terms or fee structure are under consideration, which is typically once a year, as noted on page 87.
The current Non-Executive Director fee structure has been in place since July 2013.
The Company reviewed the Non-Executive Directors fees during 2016 in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and the fees effective from 1 January 2017 are shown in the following table.
Fee structure From 1 July 2013 From 1 January 2017 Base fee 60,000 62,500 Additional fee for chairing committees: Group Audit Committee 20,000 20,000 Group Remuneration Committee 20,000 20,000 Group Investment Committee 12,500 12,500 Board Risk Committee 20,000 20,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 20,000 20,000 1 Additional committee fee 5,000 5,000 Note: 1.
A fee of 5,000 applies for each committee a Non-Executive Director is a member of other than as Committee Chairman.
Statement of voting at General Meeting The following voting was recorded at the AGM on 6 May 2016 regarding the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration: 1 Resolution Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes witheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Report Number of votes 684,660,846 41,745,807 726,406,653 2,358,792 % of votes cast 94.25% 5.75% 100% 100 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report The most recent resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy was at the AGM on 9 May 2014, where the following voting was recorded: 1 Resolution 2014 AGM Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes witheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 2 Number of votes 3,309,027,861 106,612,562 3,415,640,423 100,893,815 % of votes cast 96.88% 3.12% 100% Notes: 1.
V otes withheld are not included in the calculation as a vote withheld is not a vote in law.
V oting took place prior to the subdivision and 5:1 consolidation of Ordinary Shares which became effective on 12 May 2014.
Dilution RSA monitors its dilution levels on a regular basis to ensure that they remain within the headroom limits set by the Investment Association IA.
As at 31 December 2016, the dilution levels were as follows: Limit RSA dilution % 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 3.76% 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes, including long-term incentives 2.48% 14.
External directorships Stephen Hester received fees of 47,292 during the year in respect of his non-executive role at Centrica plc, where he is Senior Independent Director.
As permitted under the Remuneration Policy, he retained these fees.
Scott Egan does not hold outside directorships of FTSE 100 or any other listed companies but would be allowed to have one such appointment, subject to the approval of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
Directors contracts The Executive Directors service agreements became effective on the following dates: Executive Director Effective date Scott Egan 1 October 2015 Stephen Hester 5 February 2014 The table below shows when the Non-Executive Directors appointments became effective and when their terms will expire: Non-Executive Director Date of initial appointment Expiry date of current term Alastair Barbour 10 October 2011 10 October 2017 Kath Cates 1 September 2013 1 September 2019 Enrico Cucchiani 1 December 2014 1 December 2017 Isabel Hudson 1 August 2016 1 August 2019 Hugh Mitchell 26 September 2012 26 September 2018 Martin Scicluna 1 January 2013 1 January 2019 Joseph Streppel 3 October 2011 3 October 2017 Martin Strobel 1 May 2016 1 May 2019 Johanna Waterous 20 May 2008 20 May 2017 Hugh S Mitchell Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Remuneration Committee 22 February 2017 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Financial statements Financial statements Group Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Statement of Financial Position Directors responsibilities 103 22 Goodwill and intangible assets 142 Independent Auditors Report 104 23 Property and equipment 144 Primary Statements 109 24 Investment property 145 25 Financial assets 145 Basis of Preparation and Significant Accounting Policies 26 Fair value measurement 148 1 Basis of preparation 114 27 Interests in structured entities 153 2 Adoption of new and revised standards 114 28 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 154 3 Recently issued accounting pronouncements 114 29 Current and deferred tax 155 4 Significant accounting policies 115 30 Insurance, reinsurance and other debtors 156 31 Cash and cash equivalents 157 Risk and Capital Management 32 Share capital 157 5 Risk and capital management 120 33 Non-controlling interests 158 34 Loan capital 158 35 Other borrowings 159 Significant Transactions and Events 36 Insurance contract liabilities 159 6 Discontinued operations and disposals 128 37 Post-retirement benefits and obligations 164 7 Reorganisation costs 131 38 Provisions 169 39 Other liabilities 169 Notes to the Income Statement, Other Commitments and Contingent Liabilities Other Comprehensive Income and Dividends 40 Leases 170 8 Segmental information 132 41 Other commitments 170 9 Net investment return 135 42 Other contingent liabilities 170 10 Net claims 135 11 Other operating income 136 Events after the Reporting Period 12 Other operating expenses 136 43 Events after the reporting period 171 13 Finance costs 136 Appendices 14 Employee expenses 137 A Other accounting policies 172 15 Related party transactions 137 B Subsidiaries and associates 176 16 Auditors remuneration 138 17 Income tax 138 Financial Statements of the Parent Company 18 Share based payments 139 Primary Statements 180 19 Earnings per share 140 20 Dividends paid and proposed 140 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 21 Total other comprehensive income 141 1 Significant accounting policies 183 2 Investments 183 3 Other debtors and other assets 184 4 Share capital 184 5 Loan capital 184 6 Current and deferred tax 184 7 Dividends paid and proposed 185 8 Related party transactions 185 9 Share based payments 185 10 Risk and capital management 185 102 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016
