Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Index to the report Committee Committee Chairmans letter 76 Chairmans letter Remuneration snapshot 79 Directors Remuneration Policy 80 1.
R emuneration Policy for Executive Directors 81 4.
Illustrations of the Remuneration Policys application 83 5.
S ervice contracts and policy for payments on loss of office 85 7.
C onsideration of remuneration of other employees 87 Annual Report on Remuneration 88 1.
Introduction 88 Underlying Profit Underlying Return 2.
Information about the Group before tax on Tangible Equity Remuneration Committee 88 PBT ROTE 3.
T otal remuneration 2016: single figure tables 90 556m 14.2% 4.
Components of variable remuneration 90 33% 4.5 points better 5.
Directors shareholding 95 For more For more 6.
P ayments to Directors information, information, for loss of office 96 see page 23 see page 21 7.
H istorical TSR and executive On behalf of the Group Remuneration Committee, I am pleased remuneration 97 to introduce this years report.
Percentage change It contains the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages in remuneration 98 80 to 87 and the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 10.
Relative importance 88 to 101. of spend on pay 98 The Policy is due for renewal this year and will therefore 11.
Implementation of be submitted for a binding vote at the AGM on 5 May 2017.
Statement of voting The Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how at General Meeting 100 the Committee has implemented the Policy in 2016 and plans to do so in 2017, is subject to an advisory vote.
External directorships 101 Linking performance and remuneration in 2016 15.
Directors contracts 101 The Committee has continued its focus on ensuring that the remuneration received by executives is aligned to the Companys underlying financial performance, shareholder value creation, and achievement of individual and business review performance targets.
76 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Policy renewal The Committee is not proposing any significant changes to the content of the Policy, which it considers to be Remuneration aligned to shareholder interests, the promotion of good risk management and sustainable company success.
remains closely Since the Policy was last approved by shareholders in 2014, aligned to there have been a number of executive changes, planned business changes and an unsolicited bid by Zurich in 2015. underlying The Committee has reflected on these experiences and is satisfied that the Policy remains well designed to cover financial varying business demands and situations.
It is worth noting that within the remuneration framework: The current incentive structure will remain in place.
This is Hugh Mitchell based on an Annual Bonus Plan and a long-term incentive Independent Non-Executive Director where awards vest over a three-year period followed by a further two-year retention period, which supports RSAs strategy built around annual and longer-term goals.
The existing incentive opportunity levels are market-aligned and will remain unchanged.
The Group has delivered a truly excellent set of results The arrangements for share-based deferral, malus in 2016, as outlined in the Chairmans Statement on pages and clawback included in the existing Policy will continue, 4 and 5.
Underlying Earnings per Share EPS is up as the Committee considers these to be robust and 42% and the companys share price rose 43% in 2016, in line with good corporate governance.
outperforming the European insurance index SXIP by 45%.
Implementing our plans for 2017 Key performance indicators include Group underlying Return We are proposing no major changes to how our Policy on Tangible Equity at 14.2%, Combined Operating Ratio at 94.2%, is implemented in 2017. and Operating profit at 655m, as detailed on pages 20 to 23.
The capital position has further strengthened with a Solvency II Strategy and incentive measures coverage ratio of 158% and a ratio of Tangible Net Asset Value to The measures in our incentive plans are aligned to the Net Written Premium TNAV:NWP of 45%.
performance improvement being delivered by the Company across the different targeted dimensions.
The strong headline results were supported by improvements to all key underlying measures of performance including Since 2014, RSAs transformation programme has focused on attritional loss ratios and costs.
capital and balance sheet strengthening, strategic refocusing and performance improvement.
Our incentive plan measures Prior to making its incentive award decisions, the Committee have included a Business Review Scorecard designed to reviews a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer on material measure the successful delivery of this agenda.
On this occasion, no adjustments were considered necessary to award outcomes.
With the turnaround phase essentially complete, RSA is concentrating on winning for customers and shareholders Based on the Committees assessment of performance: in the markets where we compete.
This involves maintaining The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial a resilient capital base and efficiently managing risk: driving Officer will receive bonus awards for 2016 at 100% towards our best in class performance ambitions through and 86% of the normal maximum respectively, of which expense reduction and improvements in pricing, underwriting half is deferred into shares for three years.
and technology: and ensuring business sustainability by The long-term incentive awards from the 201416 cycle enhancing our customer franchise through optimal service are forecast to partially vest at 43% of the maximum levels and digitisation.
this is subject to confirmation following the end of the This means it is the right time to adjust the Business Review measurement period for the Relative TSR performance Scorecard.
However, many of its performance indicators condition, which by exception is measured up to March remain important as we transition to a more business- 2017 in this cycle.
The Chief Executives bonus award was considered reflective As a result, our 2017 incentive plans will: of Stephen Hesters excellent personal contribution in the Place continued emphasis on profit and shareholder value, year.
The targets applicable to these incentives are set out with a substantial weighting given to the key financial on pages 90 to 93. performance indicators of Relative Total Shareholder Return The conditional long-term incentive awards granted during TSR, Group underlying Return on Tangible Equity ROTE, 2016 are subject to stretching performance conditions.
Awards Group underlying Profit before Tax PBT and Combined which vest will do so after three years.
Executive Directors Operating Ratio COR : and must retain vested shares for at least a further two years.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Also include a Business Scorecard, which will be focused While acknowledging public concerns about the general levels on key components of management activity essential to of executive remuneration and comparability with the wider the success of the Company.
This will cover three principal workforce, at the same time we face the reality of competing areas of Risk and Resilience, Underlying Performance and in our different markets to attract talented executives who Business Sustainability including Customer franchise, have choices about where they work.
This has been particularly and allow the Committee to take account of those relevant at RSA, where we have had to recruit an executive elements of performance that may not be wholly reflected team to deliver a challenging turnaround.
by headline financial metrics: and We continue to aim to treat all employees fairly in the markets In the case of the Annual Bonus Plan, continue to incorporate in which we operate, as demonstrated for example by our goals bespoke to each executive, with emphasis placed accreditation as a Living Wage Employer, while ensuring we on both what is delivered but also how results are achieved.
continue to have a high calibre executive team to deliver strong business performance to the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
Reflecting the Groups success in recent times and ambitious plans, the ROTE target range used for the 2017-19 long-term I remain committed to providing shareholders with a incentive grant will increase to 12-18% from 11-16%.
transparent view of our remuneration decisions, and The on-target levels for both the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan ensuring that these fairly reflect performance.
I hope and 2017-19 LTIP grant have been set in line with the latest you find this report useful, and the Board looks forward operating plan.
This targets continuing significant performance to your support for it at the AGM.
improvements even vs the record results delivered in 2016.
The Committee has approved in principle that Stephen Hesters performance share opportunity in the 2017-19 long-term incentive cycle will be for 230% of salary at maximum vesting, which is the Groups usual level of award for Hugh S Mitchell the Chief Executive, and that Scott Egans opportunity Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Remuneration will be for 200% of salary at maximum.
Committee 22 February 2017 Base Salary and Chairmans fee The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers salaries will increase by 2.5% from 1 April 2017, which is in line with the level of increase for the Groups UK-based employees.
The Chairmans fee, which has remained unchanged since his appointment in 2013, is increased by 5% from 1 January 2017.
Shareholding The Committee believes that executives should hold a significant number of shares in the Company, as this ensures alignment with the experience of other investors.
It conducts regular reviews of RSAs provisions in this area.
As a result, the Group Chief Financial Officers target shareholding level will rise from 150% to 200% of salary from 5 May 2017.
The Group Chief Executives target shareholding level will be maintained at 300% of salary.
Stakeholder engagement The Committee values and encourages an open dialogue with shareholders.
It actively consulted the Groups largest shareholders, and the Investment Association IA, Pension and Lifetime Savings Association PLSA and ISS, during the year, and the feedback received was considered in the course of reviewing the Directors Remuneration Policy and when determining the incentive plan performance measures for 2017.
Further, the Committee closely monitors external debates related to executive pay, and will continue fully to comply with our disclosure obligations as they evolve.
78 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Remuneration snapshot How is RSA implementing its Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors?
Policy summary Implementation in 2016 Implementation in 2017 full details on pages 80 to 87 pages 88 to 98 pages 98 to 101 Base salary Group Chief Executive salary increase Group Chief Executive and CFO of 2% effective 1 April 2016. salary increases of 2.5% effective Market competitive.
Other than exceptional circumstances such as a role change, salary increases will not exceed the level of increases applied to other RSA employees.
Annual Bonus Plan Group Chief Executive and CFO Performance measures: Group bonuses at 100% and 86% of the underlying ROTE and PBT, Group COR, Targets aligned to operational plan.
a Business Scorecard and objectives Half of any award is deferred into shares for three years.
Subject to RSAs Malus and Clawback Policy see page 94.
80% of salary for ontarget performance, 160% of salary for maximum.
Longterm Incentive Plan Awards granted 201618 cycle Awards to be granted 201719 cycle Performance Shares granted annually.
Group Chief Executive grant Group Chief Executive grant at at 230% of salary, CFO grant 200%.
These vest subject to performance conditions measured over three years.
Group underlying ROTE ontarget Group underlying ROTE target range requirement increased from 201517. increased from 201618 cycle.
Twoyear additional retention period applies to vested awards.
Awards vesting 201416 cycle Required shareholding Up to 230% of salary for maximum performance.
43% of performancebased Group CFO required shareholding awards forecast to vest.
increased to 200% of salary CEO required shareholding at 300%.
How have we linked strategy, performance and variable remuneration?
details on pages 90 to 93 Annual Bonus Plan 2016 Weighting Scott Egan Stephen Hester Strategic priorities Performance measures Actual performance % total bonus award award Shareholder Value Group underlying ROTE 40% 40% 40% Profitability Group underlying PBT Group COR 1 Capital Business Review Scorecard: 30% 23% 30% Performance targets, Business Solvency II coverage ratio, results and narrative performance TNAV:NWP, Controllable expenses, on pages 90 to 92 Attritional loss ratio, Strategic plan initiatives including disposals, risk items Personal Scorecard 30% 23% 30% Total % of maximum 100% 86% 100% Longterm incentive cycle 201416 2 Strategic priorities Performance measures Actual performance Weighting Vesting % of maximum Shareholder Value Relative TSR 33.33% 0% Profitability Group underlying ROTE 33.33% 9.33% Capital Business Review Scorecard: 33.33% 33.33% Performance targets, Business Capital metrics including Solvency II results and narrative performance coverage ratio and TNAV:NWP, on pages 92 to 93 Credit rating, Cumulative earnings, TNAV growth per share, Controllable cost savings, Disposal proceeds, Attritional loss ratio.
Total % of maximum 100% 42.7% What remuneration did the Executive Directors receive in 2016?
M odified down from 30% to 23%, as detailed on page 91.
P rovisional results: Relative TSR is measured up to 31 March 2017, and its vesting outcome will be finalised following this date.
Business Review Scorecard outcome to be confirmed shortly after the Annual Results are published, as detailed on page 92.
2 015 salary figures reflect time served as directors during the year.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79
