DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee Chairmans Annual Statement Gareth Williams Our core principles of remuneration Main responsibilities and Chairman, Sustainable long-term value creation.
allocation of time spent Remuneration Profitable growth and strong onmatters: Committee cashgeneration.
Reviewing the broad remuneration Attraction, retention and motivation policy for the senior executives.
of a talented leadership cadre to Recommending and monitoring deliver the business strategy.
the level and structure of All Committee members are remuneration for senior Dear Shareholder, independent Non-Executive Directors.
In the first full year of being a listed We held five meetings during the year.
Administering all aspects organisation, we have continued ofshareschemes.
ourmomentum both in our financial Attendance Reviewing any major changes performance and in the implementation inemployee benefit structures Member Attendance of the strategic initiatives that we throughout the Company orGroup.
announced on IPO and in our first Gareth Williams Chairman 5 5 annual report.
4 Philip Green 5 5 3 Our goal as a Remuneration 6% Committee last year was to formulate Ray King 5 5 a Remuneration Policy and strategy 18% Orna NiChionna 5 5 which stimulates sustainable, value creating growth and performance for 39% the business and rewards management 2 Bridget McIntyre joined the Committee accordingly.
The Policy we put forward on 1 January 2016.
No meetings were at last years AGM received over held following her appointment during 99%support 98.8% by independent the financial year.
shareholders for which Iwould like 37% 1 tothank shareholders.
The Committee receives assistance from the Group HR Director and Company Even though there was strong Secretary, who attend meetings by supportfor the Remuneration Policy, Key: invitation, except when issues relating the Committee reviews it annually 1.
Remuneration policy totheir own remuneration are being toensure that it still meets our goals.
The Group Chief Executive Asa result of our review this year, 3.
Share schemes Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer webelieve the policy continues to 4.
Employee benefit structures and the Chairman attend by invitation.
befit for purpose and therefore will remain unchanged.
Structure of the report Our terms of reference Annual Statement pages 78-79 Our terms of reference were reviewed This report lays out the core principles Directors Remuneration Report bythe Committee and subsequently of our Directors Remuneration Policy at a glance pages 80-81 approved by the Board on 11 November and our practice over the past year.
They are available on our website, Itrust we have done this with the pages 82-91 http: corporate.
co. uk  and clarity that aid information corporate-governance and Annual Report on Remuneration yourunderstanding of both our pages 92-100 from the Company Secretary at the intentand our activity.
78 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Made awards under the Saga Long Performance targets for the 2016 Company highlights for the Term Incentive Plan LTIP for the LTIP award, the details of which are 2015 16 financial year Executive Committee and senior provided on page 89.
The implementation of our strategy management of the Company.
Grant as outlined on pages 14-15 hasbeen Effectiveness of the Remuneration levels are consistent with our normal substantiated in the key performance Committee award policy.
highlights of the year: An evaluation of the Committees Reviewed the performance targets effectiveness took place during the for the 2016 LTIP award further Continued strong performance in year, as part of the Board effectiveness details are provided on page 89. the core business areas of financial review for details see pages 62-63.
This Approved the continued operation services and travel, which has led wasan internal review with the support ofthe Saga Share Incentive Plan tostrong results across all of the of Independent Audit Limited.
The SIP and award of free shares to Groups operations.
evaluation was very positive and the alleligible employees in July 2015.
Group Profit before tax increased by conclusion was that the Committee Approved the Executive Pension 54.8% to 176.2m 2015: 113.8m, hadworked at the right level of challenge Policy and Directors Expenses on revenue of 963.2m 2015: and independence.
facilitated review will take place this year.
Reviewed the fees for the NonStrong profit delivery and continued Executive Directors see page 89. high levels of cash conversion meant Actions for 2016 17 Reaffirmed the appointment of the Group continued its deleveraging Looking ahead we will focus on: PwCas advisers.
with net debt to Trading EBITDA On 1 January 2016, Bridget McIntyre ratio now 2.3x 2015: 2.6x.
Our core principles of remuneration joined the Remuneration Committee.
Dividend payments to our ensuring they are deployed in all of We welcome Bridget, who brings with shareholders of 4.1p per share in our considerations and decisions her considerable experience gained respect of 2015 and an interim on remuneration practice.
through senior roles within some of dividend of 2.2p in respect of 2016, theUKs largest general insurers, reflecting our confidence in meeting mostrecently as the Chief Executive I hope that you find the information market expectations for the full year ofRSAs UK business.
contained in this report helpful, thoughtful and continuing to deliver sustainable and clear.
I welcome any feedback from profit growth.
Since the year end, we approved: the Companys shareholders and you can Investment in our cruise ships, contact me at gareth.
co. uk demonstrating our commitment to base salary increases of 2% in line if you have any questions or comments on continued excellence and service with the rises provided for the this report.
I look forward to hearing your toour customers.
employees of the Group for the views and will be available to answer any Destinology and Bennetts now Group Chief Executive Office and the questions at the Companys AGM, where embedded within the Group.
Group Chief Financial Officer, bringing we will ask our shareholders to approve Introduction of the panel in motor their salaries to 676,260 and the Directors Remuneration Report.
insurance to make the most of 416,160 respectively to apply for the ourcompetitive advantage in 2016 17 financial year.
2015 16 annual bonus for the Launch of Saga Investment Services Executive Directors, which was which strengthened our financial Gareth Williams 78.6% of their maximum opportunity, services offering.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee equating to 117.9% of salary for the Divestment of the Allied Healthcare This report has been prepared in accordance Group Chief Executive Officer and business.
withSchedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized 97.4% of salary for the Group Chief Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Financial Officer.
The payouts reflect Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the What we have done during the year strong performance of the Group provisions of the current UK Corporate Governance We reviewed the key components over the year.
Further detail of Code theCode and the Listing Rules.
the annual bonus is provided on pages 93-94.
Decisions made actions taken Reviewed base salary levels of the Executive Committee and the level ofbonus payments.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 79
