Stephen Kelly, Vicki Bradin, Sandra Campopiano and Steve Hare Executive Committ ee Stephen Kelly 54 Sandra Campopiano 58 Chief Executive O cer, Board of Directors Chief People O cer For Stephen Kellys skills and experience see page 66.
Experience: Sandra was appointed as Global Chief People O cer in September 2015 and joins us with over 20 years of HR experience in global businesses, including senior leadership roles at Premier Farnell, Vicki Bradin 38 Arrow Electronics, Barclays, Psion and, most recently, Thomas Cook.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Sandra is also a non-executive Director at Kingston University.
In 2005 Vicki joined Sage in June 2016 and became General Counsel she completed an MBA at the University of Surrey and in 2010 she andCompany Secretary inOctober 2016.
Vicki previously worked for wasawarded human resources director of the year by HR Magazine, FTSE 250 soft ware company Misys, where she was Associate General recognising how she led the HR team to support the transformation Counsel and had responsibility for mergers and acquisitions, litigation, ofPremier Farnell.
Sandra supports the Young Enterprise Women in risk, intellectual property and more.
Aft er graduating from Nott ingham Business Programme by mentoring and encouraging young female University, Vicki quali ed as a solicitor in the City of London.
Vicki spent entrepreneurs to start their own business.
her early career working as a corporate lawyer in global and magic circle law rms before moving in-house working in large multi-nationals and Steve Hare 55 UK public limited companies, helping grow and transform business Chief Financial O cer, Board of Directors whilst managing their regulatory and litigation risk.
For Steve Hares skills and experience see page 66.
68 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Klaus-Michael Vogelberg, Blair Crump, Santiago Solanas and Gary Daniels ofSage Spain in 2010.
During this time he renewed the leadership team, Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 51 increasing the e ciency of the business and returning it to growth, as Chief Technology O cer well as leading the Accountants Segment in Europe.
He recently led the Experience: Responsible for Sages technology strategy and soft ware roll-out of Sages brand campaign across Europe.
Prior to Sage, Santiago architecture, Klaus-Michael is also Acting Chief Technology O cer for spent 20 years working in the IT and soft ware industry, across the globe, Sage Europe.
From 2004 to 2007 he was Research and Development in sales, marketing and management roles at IBM, Microsoft and Oracle, Director for Sage UK and Ireland.
Klaus-Michael joined us when Sage where he was responsible for the coordination and leadership of the acquired the German KHK Soft ware group in 1997, where he was technology business in the Small & Medium Businessmarket in Europe Research and DevelopmentDirector and a partner.
as Senior Director of the Small & Medium Business Program O ce EMEA.
Santiago has also spentfour years in two technology start-ups A soft ware entrepreneur, Klaus-Michael set up his first business aged backed by Telefonica and Santander.
Santiago is an active supporter of 19while studying aeronautical engineering and national economics.
He is a mentor for women in business and start-ups, and speaks at a number of Small & Medium Business forums Blair Crump 54 in Spain.
in Telecommunications Engineering from the President Polytechnic University of Madrid UPM and also att ended the Harvard Experience: Blair joined Sage as President in August 2016 from PROS Business School Advanced Management Program.
Holdings, where he had been COO since February 2014.
coms Global Enterprise business, reporting to CEO and Gary Daniels 62 co-founder Marc Benio.
Prior to that, he was Group President at Chief Product Delivery O cer Verizon Business, responsible for Worldwide Sales & Consulting.
He Gary joined Sage as EVP Products in November 2015.
He has over began his career in 1983 with MCI as its first sales representative in New 35years experience in global technology companies, including senior York City where he worked for over 20 years before Verizon acquired the leadership roles at Logica, The Santa Cruz Operation, Prime Response, company in 2006.
Blair holds a Bachelors Degree in Economics from the Chordiant, Misys and Iris.
Gary, a soft ware engineer by background, Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
hasextensive experience in building and transforming geographically distributed product development organisations.
He has worked in both Santiago Solanas 48 platform and application domains: delivering product by volume shrink Chief Marketing O cer wrap, enterprise and SaaS channels.
Experience: Santiago was appointed Chief Marketing O cer in September 2014.
He joined Sage in 2007 to lead the Start-up and Small Business Division in Spain and was appointed Chief Executive O cer The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 Corporate governance report Our governance framework The role of the Board and its committ ees Board Board Our Board provides leadership to the business as a whole to drive itforward for the bene t, and having regard to the views, of its shareholders and otherstakeholders.
The Board sets Sages risk appetite and retains overall responsibility Audit and Risk forrisk management and internal controls systems, ensuring there are Chief Executive O cer Committ ee processes in place to identify and manage the groups principalrisks.
The Board sets the strategy for the business.
It has delegated the authority to manage the business to Stephen Kelly, Chief Executive Nomination O cer, who delegates speci c responsibilities to members of the Committ ee Executive Committ ee, including the development and implementation ofstrategy.
The Board also delegates other matt ers to Board committ ees and management as appropriate.
Remuneration Executive Committ ee Committ ee Audit and Risk Committ ee To oversee the Groups financial reporting, risk management andinternal control procedures and the work of its internal and externalauditors.
Board and Committ ee meetings and att endance Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Nomination Committ ee Director Board Committ ee Committ ee Committ ee To review the composition of the Board and plan for its progressive Donald Brydon 7 7 4 4 4 4 refreshing with regard to balance and structure as well as Stephen Kelly 7 7 successionplanning.
Steve Hare 7 7 Ruth Markland 7 7 5 5 3 4 4 4 Remuneration Committ ee Drummond Hall 7 7 5 5 4 4 4 4 To determine the framework, policy and levels of remuneration and Jonathan Howell 7 7 5 5 4 4 4 4 make recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Chief Executive O cer, Chairman, executive directors, the Company Secretary Neil Berkett 7 7 5 5 4 4 3 4 and senior executives.
Inna Kuznetsova 7 7 5 5 4 4 4 4 Executive Committ ee The terms of reference of each committ ee, which are reviewed on Developing and implementing strategy, operational plans, budgets, anannual basis, can be found on ourwebsite.
policies and procedures: monitoring operating and financial performance: assessing and controlling risks: prioritising and allocating The Board and each committ ee are satis ed that they receive su cient, resources: and monitoring competitive forces in each area of operation.
reliable and timely information in advance of meetings and are provided with all necessary resources and expertise to enable them to ful l their responsibilities and undertake their duties in an e ective manner.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matt ers reserved for it for decision.
This schedule is reviewed periodically, was last reviewed on 21st September 2016 and is available via our website.
70 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Board roles Donald Brydon, Stephen Kelly, 1 1 Chairman Chief Executive O cer Responsible for leading Responsible for the theBoard, its e ectiveness formulation of strategy and governance andrunning of the Group As Chairman I am responsible for leading the Board, its My responsibilities as Chief Executive O cerinclude: e ectiveness and governance and for monitoring and measuring The design, development and agreement of strategy the implementation of strategy.
My role as Chairman also carries withtheBoard aparticular responsibility to monitor and assess Sages corporate Implementation of the strategy and policy and the running governancepractices.
ofthe Group To ensure a proper dialogue with directors, I hold meetings with Managing the overall performance of Sage, concentrating the non-executive directors without the executive directors to onrevenue and pro tability assess their views.
In addition, the non-executive directors have met without me being present to appraise my performance.
I also identify acquisitions and monitor competitive forces, Thesemeetings without me present are chaired by the aswellas ensuring an e ective and motivated leadership team.
Ichair the Executive Committ ee and maintain a close working relationship with the Chairman.
I also ensure that shareholder engagement is discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Ruth Markland, Vicki Bradin 2 Senior Independent Company Secretary Director Ensures good information Discusses any concerns with ows to the Board and its shareholders that cannot be committ ees and between resolved through the normal senior management and channels of communication non-executive directors My role as Senior Independent Directoris: In my role as Company Secretary, I am available to all directors to provide advice and assistance, and I am responsible for providing To provide a point of contact for those shareholders who wish governance advice to the Board.
I ensure Board procedures are to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman complied with, that applicable rules and regulations are followed Together with the other independent non-executive directors, and act as secretary to the Board and all of the committ ees.
to evaluate the performance of the Chairman Iensure minutes of all meetings are circulated to all directors aswell as facilitate the induction of new directors and assist I am also available to consult with shareholders.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive O cer are quite distinct from one another and are clearly fide ned in writt en terms of reference for each role.
These terms ofreference are available on our website.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matt er for the Board as a whole.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 71 Corporate governance report continued Focus of the Board for the year Board composition and independence In the year under review, the Boards focus The Board composition is set out at page 70.
Our board diversity hasbeen on strategy and ensuring that the The directors have a range of experience and Tenure structures, capabilities and reports are in place can bring independent judgement to bear on 03 years to support the Group strategy.
The Board has issues of strategy, performance, resources and 36 years received regular reports from both the Chief standards of conduct.
Details of each directors 6 years Executive O cer and the Chief skills and experience are set out on pages 66 FinancialO cer.
This experience and judgement is 12.5% considered vital to our success.
It is the In particular time has been spentconsidering: balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of those directors which The ongoing development of our 50% ensures the duties and responsibilities of businessstrategy 37.5% theBoard and its committ ees are Our cyber security program and dischargede ectively.
operationalmetrics The Board monitors the independence of its Our partner and channel strategy non-executive directors, particularly those who Our marketing and competitor strategy have given long service.
Having reviewed the Succession planning and talent pipeline current Board, the non-executive directors Gender Male The areas of risk across our businesses areall considered to be independent.
Donald Female Brydon was considered independent at the Actions taken to minimise the principal risks date of hisappointment.
faced by Sage, as described on pages 36 to 41, have also been regularly discussed.
Ms Ruth Markland completed ten years of 25% service on the Board in September 2016 and The Board meets not less than six times per intends to step down at our Annual General year.
During this year, it metseven times.
Her experience as the longest serving Board member has provided valuable insight, knowledge and 75% continuity.
Having considered Ms Marklands independent focus on the issues which the Perform and transform: Board addresses, as evidenced by her Board in action contributions at Board meetings, the Board unanimously considers that Ms Markland Executive Non-executive In July 2016 the majority of the Board continues to be independent.
Non-executive att ended the Sage Summit in Chicago.
Executive Drummond Hall has accepted the The Board met with customers and appointment of Senior Independent Director partners and heard first-hand their and his appointment willtake e ect from the experience of using our products and end of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Hall 25% working with Sage.
The Board took the joined the Board in 2014 and is Chairman of opportunity to walk-theoor, the Remuneration Committ ee.
experiencing the Summit as would our customers and prospects, by visiting the Inna Kuznetsova will also be stepping down product stands and receiving from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
75% demonstrations of our products and Although with Sage for a shorter time than their capabilities.
Ruth Markland, Ms Kuznetsova has brought anew perspective to Board deliberations.
Board members also met with a number As at 30 September 2016 of Sage colleagues across all levels of The Board also considered the Chairmans the business to get their perspective on roleand determined that Mr Brydon has life at Sage and to understand the appropriate time and resource to devote to contributions they make on a daily basis.
hisrole as Chairman of Sage.
All directors Sage colleagues also shared updates on aresubject to election or re-election by some of the on-going developments shareholders at each Annual GeneralMeeting.
within the Group, such as the progress being made on our brand strategy and Con icts of interest the impact of the work being carried out The Board operates a policy to identify by the Sage Foundation.
and, where appropriate, manage con icts orpotential con icts of interest.
At each Boardmeeting, the Board considers a registerof interests and potential con icts ofdirectorsand gives, when appropriate, .
72 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 There are safeguards which will apply when Board evaluation 2015 16 Actions for 2016 2017 directors decide whether to authorise a This financial year, the Board used an The Board has set new objectives for itself con ict or potential con ict, with only those independent third party to evaluate its for FY16 17, taking account of the findings directors who have no interest in the matt er performance and that of its committ ees and from the evaluation.
Other areas of focus taking the decision.
No con icts of interest individual members.
It was facilitated by F on willinclude: have been identi ed during theyear.
Hague of Independent Board Evaluation IBE, Ensuring the directors get to know a specialist consultancy which undertakes andengage with the key talent within no other business for the Company.
A Board e ectiveness thebusiness, comprehensive brief was given to IBE by the The Board has adopted a writt en set of Enabling directors to be kept informed Chairman in March 2016.
The review included objectives for the financial year, against which onCompany performance between Board observing two Board and committ ee meetings it assesses progress at each meeting.
This meetings through the circulation of more in April and July 2016 and conducting in depth ensures that the Board focuses on key issues frequent updates, interviews with each Board member against relevant to Sage and can monitor progress in a tailored agenda in June 2016.
In addition, Continuing to ensure that each director all theseareas.
detailed interviews were also conducted with has their own engagement plan for regular Board and committ ee papers which are clear, other members of the Executive Committ ee visits to Sage operating companies and focused and relevant ensure that the Board and senior managers within the Company, the opportunity to focus on particular has the information it needs to consider the as well as external advisers who work closely businessareas, issues relevant to the business.
The papers with the Board and committ ees.
The Board Continuing to focus on improving the areissued on a timely basis to ensure that met in September 2016 for a speci c feedback quality of Board support.
theBoard and its committ ees have ample session on the final report and considered its timeto consider and digest their contents conclusions.
Separate reports were prepared Culture and values andthat the Board has the information it for the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and The Board considers leadership, culture and needs to discharge its duties.
The Chairman also good governance as essential considerations att endance at Board meetings by key received a report on each director which he in Sages on going transformation.
As the executives ensures that the Board has the subsequently reviewed with them individually.
business seeks to build a high performance opportunity to discuss the risks and Ruth Markland, as Senior Independent culture across the Company to deliver on opportunities within our business with Director, received a report on the Chairman our strategy, the Board recognises the role leadersfrom across theGroup.
which she reviewed with him.
itplays in providing leadership and tone In order to increase their knowledge of the fromthe top.
The Board is working to develop Conclusions from this years review business and expand their contacts with aframework to give it regular oversight and executives around the Group, the nonThe overall conclusion from this years assessment of the culture within Sage.
The evaluation was that the Board and its executive directors meet with senior intention is to ensure the Sage values are executives to be briefed on the particular committ ees are working well and operating integral to the performance management of e ectively.
The dynamics of the Board were issues faced by the business in their region the senior executive team and successional orbusiness area.
The majority of the Board observed to be positive, with directors candidates and that the incentives structure able to challenge each other and engage att ended the Summit Conference held by in place supports and encourages behaviours theGroup in Chicago in July 2016, the largest in constructive and insightful discussions.
The Board has Relations with investors and the Boards focus convention for small businesses around the noted the recent work of the FRC in this area world, at which they met customers, partners on internal governance and compliance within and has adopted a speci c objective for its Sage over the past year were both viewed very andSage colleagues represented at own activity in this area for the coming year.
As with any Board whose ambition is to be world-class, the directors continue to seek to improve and evolve their standards Performance evaluation of performance.
The Board will continue to In recent years, the Board has evaluated its focus on the key strategic priorities for the performance in a number of di erent ways Company and measuring their progress with including externally facilitated evaluations increased granularity.
It will devote more time onabiennial basis, with the last of those to succession planning and reviewing the skills priortothis years evaluation, described needed within the Board to support delivery below conducted by Prof Rob Go ee LBS of the strategy objectives.
The Board has also carried out internal increase its focus on the culture within the reviews conducted by the Company Secretary.
The Chairman will lead these The Board has found it particularly useful to changes with support from the Chief Executive link the output of these reviews to the and the Company Secretary.
construction of its own objectives for thecoming year.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73 Corporate governance report continued During August 2016, a case of unauthorised Induction and professional Management structure access to customer information using an development A clearly fide ned organisational structure internal login was identi ed.
Thisindicated To ensure a full understanding of Sage is exists within which individual responsibilities asigni cant weakness in internal control.
In developed, new Board members undergo a are identi ed and can be monitored.
The accordance with the Incident Management full, formal and tailored inductionprogramme.
management of the Group as a whole is Policy the Crisis Management Team was delegated to the Chief Executive O cer and To assist the Board in undertaking its invoked and managed the incident, immediately the Executive Committ ee, as discussed on responsibilities, training is available to all remediating the control weakness, and page 70.
The Executive Committ ee is made directors and training needs are assessed overseeing operational handover to upof the senior leaders from the key support aspart of the Board evaluation procedure.
functions and the primary external facing Alldirectors have access to the advice and business stakeholders including Sales and The Board continues to support the ongoing services of the Company Secretary who Marketing.
These Executive Committ ee development of risk management and internal ensures that directors take independent members ensure that reports on their controls to ensure that they remain e ective professional advice when it is judged respective business areas are made to as the business continues to evolve as part necessary in order to discharge their theBoard.
Details can be responsibilities asdirectors.
found in the both the Managing Risk section During 2016 Sage has revised, consolidated Board meetings are held at our operating ofthis report on pages 36 to 45 and the Audit and published a single policy framework onan companiesandthe board and non-executive and Risk Committ ee section of this report on internal site calledthe Sage Academy.
These directors are given opportunities to broaden pages 76 to 80. policies include Finance, IT, Procurement, their understanding of Sage and the key Legal and HR policies.
In addition, a delegation markets in which weoperate.
of authority matrix has been rolled out Whistleblowing throughout Sage clearly stating the approvals A whistleblowing telephone hotline service Risk management and internal required for a broad range of operational items.
 raise concerns in controls relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an The Board retains overall responsibility entirely con dential basis.
The hotline is Budgetary process forsett ing Sages risk appetite, and for risk operated by a third party which is independent A comprehensive budgeting process is in management and internal control systems.
Incoming reports are provided to the place, with an annual budget prepared and Inaccordance with section C. 2.3 of the UK General Counsel and Company Secretary who validated at a country and functional level.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board is ensures that the matt ers are appropriately The budget is subject to consideration and responsible for reviewing their e ectiveness, investigated.
The Audit and Risk Committ ee approval by the Board.
The directors are and con rmsthat: receives regular reports on any matt ers raised provided with relevant and timely information through the hotline and monitors the use required to monitor nancialperformance.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, throughout Sage.
evaluating, and managing the principal risks faced by the Company: Investment appraisal Quality and integrity of colleagues The systems have been in place for the year  The integrity and competence of our under review and up to the date of approval Budgetary approval and fide ned authorisation colleagues is ensured through high of the Annual Report and Accounts: levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of recruitment standards and the provision the budgetary process the Board considers They are regularly reviewed by the Board: ofsubsequent training and development.
proposals for research and development and High-quality colleagues are seen as an programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject The systems accord with the FRC guidance essential part of the controlenvironment.
tointernal guidelines governing investment on risk management, internal control and appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, related financial and businessreporting.
Diversity During 2016 the Board has directly, and The Board has due regard for the bene ts through delegated authority to the Executive ofdiversity in its membership and strives to Monitoring and review Committ ee and Audit and Risk Committ ee, maintain the right diversity balance including There are processes in place to monitor the overseen and reviewed the performance and gender, age and professional background.
system of internal controls and to report any evolution of risk management activities and TheChairman seeks to ensure that the signi cant control failings or weaknesses and practices and internal control systems within composition of the Board includes individuals planned mitigating actions.
Through both its ongoing involvement with deep knowledge and experience, bringing are set out in more detail in the Risk and overview in risk management and internal a wide range of perspectives to thebusiness.
Management report on pages 36 to 45. control activities, the Board is satis ed that The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report other than as set out in the following & Accounts, comprises 25% women 2015: paragraph, the risk management and internal 25%.
The Board must continue to provide controls systemsinplace remaine ective.
strong leadership at Sage, and, therefore, continues to appoint only the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
74 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Internal Audit Information included in the Internal Audit activities are provided by an Directorsreport in-house team supplemented under co-source Certain information, ful lling certain agreements by third-party providers.
The role requirements of the Corporate Governance of Head of Internal Audit is undertaken by the Statement, can be found in the Directors Vice President Risk and Assurance who has a report and is incorporated into this Corporate direct reporting line to the Audit and Risk Governance section byreference.
Committ ee and its Chairman in order to For reference, relevant sections of the ensure independence.
Internal Audits role is Directors reportare: toadvise management and the Board on the extent to which systems of risk management Substantial shareholdings and internal controls aree ective.
Deadlines for voting rights More information on Internal Audit is set out Repurchase of shares within the Audit and Risk Committ ee section Amendment of the Companys articles of on pages 76 to 80. association Appointment and replacement of directors Relations with shareholders Powers of the directors Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual Report & Accounts By order of the Board is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive one and all information on Sages activities, published financial results and the Annual Report & Accounts can be found on our website.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and thereare presentations to analysts aft er Vicki Bradin ourannouncement of the year-end and Company Secretary half-yearresults.
29 November 2016 At each meeting, the Board receives an updateon presentations to investors and communications from shareholders to ensure that the Board has an understanding of their views.
The Annual General Meeting is used tocommunicate with private and institutional investors and the Board welcomes theirparticipation.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 75 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committ ee We are committ ed to ensuring that Sage continues to apply rigorous risk management procedures across the Group particularly in a period of signi cant transformation.
Jonathan Howell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committ ee Dear shareholder, Composition The Committ ee is an essential element of Audit and Risk I am pleased to present the 2016 report of the Sages governance framework, to which the Committ eeMembership: Audit and Risk Committ ee the Committ ee.
Board has delegated oversight of Sages The Committ ee continued to support the Jonathan Howell, Chairman financial reporting, risk management and Board in sett ing the Groups risk appetite and Neil Berkett internal control procedures, and of the work ensuring that processes are in place to identify ofInternal Audit and the externalauditor.
Drummond Hall and manage the Groups principal risks.
During These responsibilitiesare fide ned in the Inna Kuznetsova 2016 and in line with the Financial Reporting Committ ees terms of reference, which were Councils FRC requirements, the Committ ee Ruth Markland last updated and presented to the Committ ee again kept under review and considered the for review and approval in September 2016. impact of the business transformation on riskassessment, the ongoing e ectiveness The FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires that the Committ ee ofinternal controls, going concern and viabilityassessment.
hasat least one member with recent and relevant financial expertise and experience At each meeting, the Committ ee reviewed the inaccounting and auditing.
The Board is principal risks, associated appetite statements satis ed that the Chairman meets these and metrics, to assess whether they continued requirements, being a quali ed chartered to be relevant and aligned to the achievement accountant and the Group Finance Director of Sages strategic objectives and within an atClose Brothers Group plc.
In addition, and acceptable tolerance for the Group.
The asrequired by the 2016 updates to the Code Committ ee monitored the adequacy and which will be applicable to Sage in 2017, the e ectiveness of the control environment Board considers that, as a whole, the through the review of internal audit reports Committ ee has the competence and broad from Sage Assurance and consideration of experience relevant tothe sector in which relevant reporting from management, Sage Sage operates.
An overview of the background, Risk and the external auditor.
Importantly, knowledge and experience of the Chairman theCommitt ee also considered the quality and each of the Committ ee members can be of financial reporting through review and found on pages 66 to 67 of thisreport.
discussion with management and the external auditor, of the interim financial statements and the 2016 Annual Report andAccounts.
76 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Committ ee also reviewed and advised Activities during the year Financial Reporting, including theBoard on whether the Annual Report and The Committ ee met five times over the course signi cant reporting and accounting Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced of the year in line with its terms of reference.
matt ers and understandable and provide the information All Committ ee members att ended every In respect of financial reporting, at each necessary for shareholders to assess Sages meeting, and were joined at each meeting by meeting the Committ ee received scheduled position and performance, business model the Chief Financial O cer, the Vice President finance updates from the EVP Finance, andstrategy.
As part of this responsibility, the VP Risk and Assurance and the Executive including updates on signi cant accounting Committ ee reviewed the results of processes Vice President EVP Finance Controlling and reporting matt ers.
The Committ ee put in place by management to provide the andReporting.
The Chairman of the Board considered how these matt ers were addressed necessary assurance including an analysis and Chief Executive O cer were also present in preparing the Groups financial statements, ofhow the key events in the year had been at four of the five meetings.
The Chairman as set out below, and assessed the overall described in the Annual Report and Accounts reports to the Board on key matt ers arising quality of financial reporting through review and the representations from country aft er each of these meetings.
At each meeting, and discussion of the interim and annual management teams on a range of financial the Committ ee met with the external auditor, financial statements.
controls, key performance indicators and legal andat certain meetingsthe VP Risk and In performing its review, the Committ ee matt ers to support the fair presentation of the Assurance, without management considered the work, judgements and Groups financial statements.
conclusions of the executive management also considered the perspective of the Outside these formal meetings, the Chairman and the group finance team and received externalauditor.
meets on a regular basis with the Chief reports from the external auditor sett ing In addition, the Committ ee reviewed the Financial O cer, the external auditor, outitsview on the accounting treatments process undertaken by management to theVPRisk and Assurance and the EVP included in the financial statements, based support and allow the Directors to make Finance.
Additionally, theChairman also ona review of the interim financial statements theGroups viability statement.
The retains an open invitation toatt end any and an audit of the annual financial statements.
Committ eeconsidered and provided input meeting of the Global RiskCommitt ee.
The Committ ees review included assessing intothe determination of the period over the appropriateness of the accounting policies During 2016, the Committ ee focussed on which viability should be assessed, which of and practices, compliance with financial anumber of important activities, including: the Groups principal risks and combinations reporting standards and relevant statutory thereof should be modelled to assess the requirements, and reviewing the adequacy Financial reporting, including signi cant impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency ofdisclosures in the financial statements.
accounting and reporting matt ers: and reviewed the results of managements Aspart of this activity, the Committ ee reviews Risk management and internal controls: scenario modelling and the reverse stress andconsiders, at least annually, reports from Incident management, fraud and testing of thesemodels.
In particular, the management in respect of uncertain tax whistleblowing: Committ ee reviewed the appropriateness of positions and provisions thereon, and on revising the period over which viability should Reporting from Internal Audit and the theGroups e ective tax rate and deferred tax external auditor: be assessed, from five years to three years position.
In the current year, the Committ ee inline with updates to the Groups strategic also reviewed the findings of an analysis Assessing the e ectiveness of both Internal planning process.
prepared by management in respect of the Audit and the external auditor: and Groups approach to accounting for foreign Application of, and updates to, the Auditor The Groups approach to producing its viability exchange given the signi cant movements in Independence Policy.
statement can be found on page 41, with the exchange rates following the result of the UKs viability statement found on page 101.
In addition, and to support Sages change EU Referendum.
andgrowth agenda, the Committ ee used in-depth reviews to look into areas of particular relevance or importance across the business as described later in this report.
The Committ ee also obtained updates on, andreviewed the progress of, those areas it identi ed for focus in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, namely the e ective operation of the Global and Regional Risk Committ ees, progress of theExcellence in Governance initiative and the promotion of a strong compliance and controls based culture.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 77 Corporate governance report continued Signi cant accounting and reporting matt ers The Committ ee considered how the following signi cant accounting and financial reporting matt ers were addressed in preparing the Groups financial statements.
Matt er considered Action Revenue Recognition The Group sells its products in di erent ways across Following the revenue restatement in 2015, the Committ ee continued to monitor theglobe.
Assessment of whether the Groups revenue theapplication of the Groups revenue recognition accounting policy.
The Committ ee requested and received reports at four of its meetings during the year, and considered recognition policies are appropriate and consistently applied continues to be a key focus of the Committ ee whether the work undertaken demonstrated that the policy was being applied on a consistent basis throughout the Group.
The Committ ee also received reports from giventhe transition in business model to selling soft ware asa service and the increased focus on recurring revenue the external auditor on its findings.
The Committ ee discussed and challenged managements conclusions, satisfying The revenue recognition accounting policy is set out in itself that a consistent approach had been applied to determine revenue recognised note3.1 to the financial statements and is referenced in in 2016. theGroups critical accounting estimates and judgements.
In addition, the Committ ee discussed and provided input into managements proposed process for the implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and requested further updates on progress and impact assessment overthe course of 2017.
Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is an area of focus for the Committ ee given the The Committ ee reviewed and considered a report prepared by management in quantum of the Groups goodwill balances, the evolution respect of the annual assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
The report ofSages business model and the impairments in 2014 included detailed analysis in respect of key inputs that management used within and2015 relating to the business inBrazil.
itsvalue in use calculations such as forecast cash ows and discount rates.
The Committ ee considered the appropriateness of these assumptions and also reviewed In addition, judgements and assumptions are applied in the impact of a sensitivity analysis applying downside scenarios.
From information calculating the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating provided in the report and from discussion at its September meeting, the Committ ee Units CGUs.
obtained appropriate assurance that an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill was not required.
In addition, the Committ ee received and considered a report from A summary of key assumptions used in the impairment the external auditor sett ing out their work in this area.
testis set out in note 6.1 to the financial statements.
The Committ ee also considered if there were any reasonably possible changes in assumptions that would result in a material impairment and therefore require further disclosure in the financial statements.
The Committ ee was satis ed that no such disclosures were required.
Exceptional non-recurring items The Group is undergoing a major business transformation.
In anticipation of signi cant non-recurring business transformation costs, the The costs associated with delivering this are signi cant and Committ ee reviewed and agreed with management, the principles set out in will be incurred in both 2016 and 2017.
The recognition and theGroups accounting policy for exceptional non-recurring items.
presentation of such costs as exceptional non-recurring Management provided updates at four of the Committ ees meetings during items is a key area of focus for the Committ ee.
theyear, of the amounts charged as exceptional non-recurring costs, including A summary of the Groups accounting policy for exceptional analysis of material elements of the costs.
The net costs incurred in 2016 were non-recurring items is summarised in note 3.6 to the 107.7m.
The Committ ee also received reports from the external auditor on financial statements.
The Committ ee considered the appropriateness of the recognition and presentation of these costs and satis ed itself that the position taken was reasonable.
78 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Monitored, reviewed and discussed the During the year a case of unauthorised RiskManagement and e ectiveness of the Global Risk Committ ee accessto customer information using an InternalControls including its performance in maturing internal login was identi ed.
The Board The Committ ee, on behalf of the Board, andembedding risk and the suitability considered both a report on the incident monitors and reviews the Companys internal ofitscomposition: including immediate proposed actions, and control and risk management systems, the subsequent progress of remediation.
The reporting upon their e ectiveness.
This Reviewed and approved updates to Committ ee received and considered reports monitoring includes all material controls, SagePolicies for which the Committ ee from Sage Risk and Sage Assurance regarding including financial, operational and isresponsible: and successful execution of remediation activity.
compliance controls, assessing that any Approved the creation of a Compliance corrective action is taken where necessary, function along with the appointment of Further detail is set out at page 74, and other and that the systems are t for purpose.
than reported, there were no incidents which During the year, theCommitt ee: demonstrated a signi cant failing or weakness in internal controls during the year.
Reviewed the principal risks, the associated In-Depth Reviews risk appetites and metrics, and challenged The Committ ee uses in-depth reviews to and con rmed their alignment to the consider selected principal risks and other Internal and External Audit achievement of Sages strategic objectives.
relevant, current and important issues.
During The Committ ee is required to review and At each meeting the Committ ee considered the year, the Committ ee undertook such approve the nature and scope of the work the ongoing overall assessment of each risk reviews with relevant sponsors for two of ofthe external auditor and Internal Audit.
and management actions and mitigations theGroups principal risks, namely Supporting TheCommitt ee considered and approved inplace and planned.
This review was Control Environment and Market Intelligence theplanned activities of Internal Audit and supported through consideration of in order to understand and challenge their reviewed the scope of the work of the external quarterly risk dashboards outlining both reported status, mitigating actions and the auditor for the year.
Regular reports were received principal and any escalated local risks: progress made in the management of from both Internal Audit and the external auditor eachrisk.
The Committ ee also received Reviewed summary reports and and discussed by the Committ ee, including supplementary brie ngs on the Finance supplementary brie ngs from Sage Risk and managements response to findings and Transformation and roll-out of X3 and the management on selected principal risks and observations set out in those reports.
establishment of Financial Shared Service other relevant, current and important issues The Committ ee also considered and Centres in both the UK and South Africa, to across the business as outlined below and monitored the independence of the external understand the status of transition and post on page 42: auditor and the application of, and compliance go-live stabilisation plans alongside the Reviewed Internal Audit and management with, the Auditor Independence Policy, in impactof change on the associated control reports on internal control including particular with regard to any non-audit environment.
The Committ ee considered financial, compliance and operational services.
The Committ ee also considers reports received throughout the year on matt ers, and monitored the implementation business relationships with the external thescope and progress of the Excellence of management actions to address auditor which primarily relate to the inGovernance initiative and subsequently identi ed control weaknesses: procurement of Sage soft ware.
theimplementation plans of a revised suite Received, considered and concluded upon ofSage policies.
an assessment of the e ectiveness of Internal Audit Internal Audit: The Internal Audit Charter, which was reviewed Incident Management, Fraud and Reviewed reports from the external auditor and updated during the year, outlines the Whistleblowing on the Groups financial reporting and objectives, authority, scope and responsibilities Both the Incident Management Policy and internal financial control environment, of Internal Audit.
The Charter, performance theWhistleblowing Policy were updated and including any issues identi ed in the course against it, and the e ectiveness of Internal reviewed by the Committ ee during the year.
of their work and observations on controls Audit, is reviewed by the Committ ee on an The Committ ee considered the suitability and and control weaknesses and where annual basis.
The Committ ee also considers alignment of the policies, and con rmed their appropriate satis ed itself that there was and evaluates the level of Internal Audit appropriateness in supporting fulldisclosure anappropriate response from management: resource, its quality, experience and expertise, to senior executive management and the to ensure it is appropriate to provide the Reviewed incidents and instances Committ ee.
At each meeting the Committ ee required level of assurance over the principal ofwhistleblowing and associated received a summary report of escalated risks, processes and controls throughout management actions, escalated in incidents and instances of whistleblowing, theGroup.
accordance with the Incident Management together with management actions.
As part and Whistleblowing policies: ofthis reporting process, the Committ ee is The Internal Audit plan was approved by Considered any fraudulent activityand or noti ed of all whistleblowing matt ers raised, theCommitt ee at the beginning of the including those that relate to financial identi ed control issues to assess whether nancialyear, along with any subsequent they demonstrated a signi cant failing or reporting, the integrity of financial management, quarterlychanges.
In addition, the weaknesses in internal controls: Committ ee reviews the results and conclusions of the annual programme of fraud risk assessments across the business.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 79 Corporate governance report continued Progress against the plan and the results of Robustness and perceptiveness of the Non-audit services Internal Audits activities, including the quality external auditor in their handling of key The Auditor Independence Policy Policy and timeliness of management responses, is accounting and audit judgements: speci es the role of the Committ ee in monitored at each meeting, with signi cant reviewing and approving non-audit services in The interaction between management issues identi ed within Internal Audit reports order to ensure the ongoing independence of andthe auditor, including ensuring that considered in detail by the Committ ee.
A summary of non-audit management dedicates su cient time the year the Committ ee approved a refresh of fees paid to the external auditor is provided tothe audit process: the Internal Audit methodology and a revised tothe Committ ee on a quarterlybasis.
Provision of non-audit services as set approach to the required remediation outbelow: and In anticipation of new legislation and Revised timetable for all audit findings.
Ethical Standards that were subsequently Review and consideration of the results During the year, an assessment of internal nalised in 2016, in the current year the Policy ofmanagements evaluation of the audit was carried out by the VP Risk and stated that the external auditor is prohibited e ectiveness of the external auditor.
Assurance, based upon the criteria and from undertaking services certain services The Committ ees own assessment of the methodology of the PwC assessment in 2015, including, but not limited to, the following: e ectiveness of the external auditors was which evaluated Internal Audit against leading Tax services: supplemented by a report from management practices.
This reviewconsidered progress summarising the findings of a survey of key Payroll services: against recommended areas for improvement Sage colleagues which covered the quality of from this evaluation, along with progress made Bookkeeping and preparing accounting the auditors reporting to, and interaction with, against the pillars of the Assurance Strategy.
records and financial statements: the various finance teams across the Group.
The assessment concluded that Internal Audit Valuation services: Management concluded that in its second remains e ective and meets the needs of Legal services: year, the audit relationship continued to theGroup.
The Committ ee considered the develop across the Group and was e ective.
Internal audit services: approach and findings of the assessment andendorsed the conclusion.
Services linked to the nancing, capital During the year an Audit Quality Review Team structure and allocation, and investment AQRT from the FRC undertook an inspection strategy: and of EYs audit of the Groups 2015 financial External auditor Ernst & Young EY statements.
As part of that process the The Committ ee reviews and makes a Services that involve playing any part in the Chairman met with the inspection team to recommendation with regard to the management or decision-making ofSage.
share his and the Boards perspectives on re-appointment of the external auditor.
The Policy also requires that the ratio of audit thequality of EYs audit and its delivery on In making this recommendation, the fees to non-audit fees must be within Sages commitments made by the audit rm as part Committ ee considers auditor e ectiveness pre-determined ratio, and non-audit fees for of the audit tender process.
On completion and independence, partner rotation and the year must not exceed 70% of the average ofthe review the Audit and Risk Committ ee any other factors which may impact the of the external audit fees billed over the considered the AQRTs final report on its Committ ees judgement regarding the previous three years.
This was EYs second year inspection and discussed it with the audit external auditors.
This has been EYs second as the Groups external auditor and, as such, partner.
The Audit and Risk Committ ee was year as Sages external auditor following the this ratio will be monitored over future periods.
pleased with the overall assessment which formal tender process conducted in 2014.
In 2016, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit was consistent with its own view on the The Committ ee con rms that Sage has feewas 4% re ecting a non-audit services qualityand e ectiveness of the 2015 audit.
complied with the Statutory Services for Large engagement review of the Groups interim Private meetings were held with the external Companies Market Investigation Mandatory financial statements and, at the request of the auditor at each Committ ee meeting to provide Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Remuneration Committ ee, performing agreed additional opportunity for open dialogue and Audit Responsibilities Order 2014 with regard upon procedures in relation to management feedback from the external auditor without to the requirement for formal tendering every incentive arrangements.
These services management being present.
werepre-approved in line with the Auditor these private meetings the Chairman meets Independence Policy.
A breakdown of total The Committ ee monitored the conduct and on a regular basis with the external auditor to audit and non-audit fees charged by the e ectiveness of the external auditor during the facilitate e ective and timely communication.
external auditor for the year under review is year, considering its independence, objectivity Further, the Committ ee received a formal shown in note 3 to the nancialstatements.
and scepticism, through its own observations statement of independence from the and interactions with the external auditor, and externalauditor.
with regard to the: Having considered all of the above, the Experience and expertise of the auditor Committ ee has recommended to the Board intheir direct communication with, and that a resolution to reappoint EY be proposed support to, the Committ ee: Jonathan Howell at the 2017 AGM and the Board has accepted Chairman of the Audit and Risk Content, quality of insights and added value and endorsed thisrecommendation.
Committ ee of their reports: 29 November 2016 Ful lment of the agreed external audit plan: 80 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Nomination Committ ee The Committ ee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience required for a successful board in a changingindustry.
experience and knowledge required by a opportunities and key leadership positions Donald Brydon particular role with due regard for the bene t within Sage.
The Chairman and the CEO, with Chairman of the Nomination Committ ee of diversityincluding gender diversityon the assistance from the Chief People O cer will Board and at senior management level and continue to work on managing succession make an .
The arrangements for the executive directors.
Nomination Committ ee Boardand the Committ ee have noted the membership: recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Board changes Review in November 2016 to increase female Ruth Markland has served as the Boards Donald Brydon Chairman board representation to at least 33% by 2020 Senior Independent Director with great Jonathan Howell and the recommendations of the Parker distinction and has brought her own style to Review on board ethnic diversity.
Neil Berkett the role, discharging her responsibilities with Drummond Hall great diligence.
Ruth completed10 years of Further details on diversityare provided at service on the Board in September 2016.
Inna Kuznetsova experience as the longest serving Board Ruth Markland member has provided valuable insight and Management succession and talent continuity.
Ruth has decided not to seek pipeline re-election to the Board at theAnnual General The Committ ee has continued to work to put Committ ee purpose and Meeting in February 2017.
Inna Kuznetsova has appropriate succession plans in place in order responsibilities also decided to stand down from theBoard at toensure the right mix of skills and experience The purpose of the Committ ee is to review the Annual General Meeting.
Inna joined the of Board members now and in the future.
In thecomposition, skills and experience of board in March 2014.
Although she has been addition, the Board recognises the need for theBoard and to plan for its progressive with Sage for a shorter time than Ruth, she talent to be nurtured within executive and refreshing, with regard to balance and hasbrought a new perspective to the Boards management levels and across the Group structure.
TheCommitt ee also considers deliberations.
The Committ ee has reviewed asawhole.
the Boards composition with respect to both skills and diversity and as a consequence During the year, the Board continued to focus Committ ee meetings hasengaged a specialist rm, Sciteb, which on strengthening the pipeline of executive This year the Committ ees main activity undertakes no other business for the talent in the Company.
A comprehensive wasfocused on Board succession planning, Company, to present it with possible talent review was presented to the Board, whichit did over four meetings and frequent candidates for non-executive director roles.
mapping successional candidates across all informal exchanges.
Itanticipates making recommendations senior roles within the business.
The skills and totheBoard in time to ensure appropriate experience of those senior leaders were also The Committ ees annual evaluation succession to Ruth and Inna.
Drummond reviewed to ensure that there is the right mix was externally facilitated by IBE.
It was Hallhas accepted the appointment of Senior in place to help deliver the strategic objectives concluded that the Committ ee continued Independent Director, to take e ect from of the Company and to build a high tooperate e ectively.
theend of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is committ ed to the development of the senior leadership Diversity team through initiatives such as the Executive In considering appointments to the Board Development Programme, which seeks to andto senior executive positions, it is the broaden the skillset and experience of key policy of the Committ ee to evaluate the skills, senior talent and prepare them for future Donald Brydon Chairman of the Nomination Committ ee 29 November 2016 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 81 Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee We are proposing no changes to our policy, with remuneration being designed to create a strong performance-oriented environment.
Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Objectives and responsibilities Committee meetings Remuneration Committee Our main objective is to determine the No one other than a member of the membership: framework, broad policy and levels of Committee is entitled to be present at its remuneration for the Groups Chief Executive meetings.
The Chief Executive Ocer may, Drummond Hall, Chairman Ocer, the Groups Chief Financial Ocer, as required, attend meetings, except where Donald Brydon the Chairman of the Company and other his own performance or remuneration is Neil Berkett executives as deemed appropriate.
No director is involved in Jonathan Howell framework includes, but is not limited to, deciding his or her own remuneration.
establishing stretching performance-related Inna Kuznetsova The Committee is required, in accordance with elements of reward and is intended to Ruth Markland its terms of reference, to meet at least four promote the long-term success of the times per year.
During this financial year, the Company.
We achieve this through: Committee met five times.
Providing recommendations to the Board, Dear fellow shareholder, within agreed terms of reference, on Sages Key remuneration outcomes for FY16 framework of executive remuneration For the year ended 30 September 2016, Group It is my pleasure to present the Directors Determining the contract terms, recurring plus processing revenue growth was remuneration report for the year ended remuneration and other benets for 9.8%, reecting good acceleration in growth on 30 September 2016. each of the executive directors, including the prior year.
Combined with the achievement We aim to be entirely transparent in our performance share awards, performanceof their strategic objectives, this led to 69% of remuneration practices and provide related bonus schemes, pension rights the maximum bonus paying out for the Chief shareholders with the information needed to and compensation payments Executive Ocer and 69% for the Chief make informed decisions about our company.
More details on the bonus Monitoring remuneration for senior We are proposing no changes to our policy outcome are set out on page 90. executives below Board level having received shareholder agreement at our Approving share awards Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted AGM in 2016.
Our guiding principle continues in 2014 were based on organic revenue growth, to be one of developing a high performance earnings per share growth and relative TSR culture through clear linkage of individuals performance measured over the three-year remuneration to our strategic business KPIs.
Overall, the Committee determined that 64% of the maximum number of shares under award will vest in March 2017.
Further detail is set out on page 91.
82 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration at a glance This section provides a high level introduction to remuneration at Sage.
Further details can be found within the report at the noted page.
Remuneration principles Alignment with the Alignment with Att ract and Retain Motivate and Reward wider Group Shareholders The key elements of our remuneration policy are summarised below.
Element of Remuneration Application of Element Application of Element Policy Purpose in FY17 for CEO in FY17 for CFO Base salary Enables Sage to attract and retain executive directors of the 810,000 2.5% increase 522,000 2.5% increase calibre required to deliver the Groups strategy effective 1 January 2017 effective 1 January 2017 Pension Provides a competitive post-retirement benefit, in a way that 25% of base salary 25% of base salary manages the overall cost to the Company Benefits Provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package to Car allowance, medical Car allowance, medical executives to assist them to carry out their insurance costs of travel, insurance, costs of travel, duties effectively accommodation and accommodation and subsistence for the subsistence for the directors and their directors and their partners on Sage-related partners on Sage-related business if required business if required Annual bonus Rewards and incentivises the achievement of annual financial Maximum 125% of Maximum 125% of and strategic targets.
base salary base salary A minimum of one-third deferral into shares is compulsory, with the remainder delivered in cash Performance Share Supports achievement of our strategy by targeting Face value of 250% of Face value of 250% of Plan PSP performance under our key financial performance indicators base salary base salary All-employee share Provides an opportunity for directors to voluntarily invest Eligible to participate up to Eligible to participate up plans in the Company the tax-efficient limit of to the tax-efficient limit 500 per month of 500 per month Chairman and nonProvide an appropriate reward to attract and retain No change see page 96 of this report for a list executive director high-calibre individuals of non-executive director fees fees Shareholding Shareholding at 30 The shareholding requirement for directors is 200% of base Shareholding at 30 guidelines September 2016 is 18% of salary and achievement of this is expected within a maximum September 2016 is 191% of salary, which is made up of of five years from the time the director became subject to base salary unvested deferred shares the policy 1 net of tax Note: 1.
Steve Hare has committed to holding shares relating to his PSP vestings in 2017 the first of his long-term awards to vest which are projected to achieve his shareholding requirement after one year of becoming subject to the policy.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 83 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration at a glance continued Delivering our remuneration principles in 2017 Our remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, underpins the delivery of these four key remuneration principles.
At the heart of this policy is a relatively straightforward remuneration arrangement for our most senior executives comprising base salary and benets, an annual bonus plan and a long-term incentive plan the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Our remuneration principles Delivering our remuneration principles in 2017 Attract and retain No changes are proposed in 2017 to our maximum level of performance-related pay under either the We oer competitive rates of annual bonus plan or the PSP pay and benets to attract The CEO will receive a salary increase of 2.5% and the CFO will receive a salary increase of 2.5% eective and retain the best people in 1 January 2017, consistent with the median pay award for employees based in the UK.
a competitive international market which includes private-equity backed organisations as well as listed companies.
Motivate and reward 2017 annual bonus In 2016, the annual bonus measure for executive directors was Group recurring revenue growth Remuneration at Sage is 80% of overall bonus potential and strategic measures 20% of overall bonus potential.
As outlined designed to create a strong in the strategic report on page 47, organic revenue growth is the key strategic measure of performance performance-oriented during the coming year and the Committee has therefore determined that in 2017 the key bonus measure environment for the taking of shall be Group organic revenue growth 80% of overall bonus.
Strategic measures linked to executives appropriate risks and rewards 1 VSGM goals, which are derived from the process explained in the strategic report on page 27, make up achievement of our Company the remaining 20% of bonus.
Payout under the organic revenue growth measure will be dependent upon strategy and business the satisfaction of underpin conditions based on recurring revenue growth, and underlying operating objectives.
2017 PSP awards There are no changes to performance measures for PSP awards: Half of the 2017 PSP award will be subject to a performance measure based on relative TSR performance.
This measure will help to ensure managements continued focus on overall Group growth and delivery of shareholder value Half of the 2017 PSP award will be subject to a performance measure based on recurring revenue growth.
This continues the close alignment with our medium-term strategic priorities, to grow our subscription-based services and acquire new customers For any of the recurring revenue growth element of the 2017 PSP award to vest, two underpin performance conditions based on EPS growth and organic revenue growth will also need to be achieved Note: 1.
VSGM stands for Vision, Strategy, Goals and Measures.
Goal setting begins with the CEO and cascades down through leadership.
Senior management goals are aligned to strategic pillars and shared throughout Sage 84 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our remuneration principles Delivering our remuneration principles in 2017 Alignment with the The remuneration policy for executives reects the overriding remuneration philosophy and principles wider Group of the wider Group, including but not limited to the principles on which salaries are reviewed and the Pay and employment structure of performance-related incentive plans.
Details of pay arrangements for executive directors conditions elsewhere in the are set out in the annual remuneration report on pages 89 to 100.
Group are considered when determining executive base salary and bonus reviews.
Alignment with Our existing pay structure for executive directors and other senior management is heavily weighted shareholders towards share-based performance-related pay which is designed to align executive and shareholder The interests of our senior interests.
The following practices will continue in 2017: management team are Malus clawback aligned with those of All incentives awarded to executive directors and Executive Committee members are subject to malus shareholders by having and clawback provisions.
Details of the implementation of those provisions are set out in the Directors a significant proportion of annual remuneration report and policy.
remuneration performancebased and delivered through Compulsory bonus deferral shares, together with a All executive directors are compulsorily required to defer one-third of their bonus into Sage shares.
significant shareholding The deferral period is currently two years, increasing to three years with effect from 2018. requirement.
Enhanced shareholding requirement Eective from the 2016 AGM, the shareholding requirement for directors is 200% of base salary and directors are expected to achieve the guideline within a maximum period of five years from when they first become subject to the guideline.
Single figure for total remuneration summary: 2016 2015 Total Total Director 000 000 Executive directors S Kelly 1,711 1,521 S Hare 3,125 1,065 Non-executive directors D H Brydon 396 408 R Markland 75 78 N Berkett 60 60 D Hall 76 70 J Howell 77 77 I Kuznetsova 60 60 Note: The single figure total in 2016 for S Kelly reflects his first full year in office with no salary increase since date of joining.
The figure shown for S Hare shows an increase arising from the vesting of two performance share plan awards.
See page 89 for further details of the valuation methodology and page 91 for an explanation of the vesting of those awards.
Remuneration disclosure The report is in two sections: This report complies with the requirements of The Directors remuneration policy pages the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 86 to 88.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations The Directors annual remuneration report 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the pages 89 to 100.
This section sets out UK Corporate Governance Code September details of how our existing remuneration 2012 and the Listing Rules.
Drummond Hall policy was implemented for the year ended There will be no shareholder vote for the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 30 September 2016 and how we intend remuneration policy and an advisory vote the policy to apply for the year ending on the annual remuneration report.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 85 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy Purpose of this section: Provides detail of the key elements of our remuneration policy The current policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM and can be found on our website www.
Remuneration policy table The table below sets out our remuneration policy.
Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Normally reviewed annually, with any Ordinarily, salary increases will be in line with None, although Supports the recruitment increases applied from January.
increases awarded to other employees in overall performance and retention of executive major operating businesses of the Group.
of the individual is When determining base salary levels, directors of the calibre considered by the consideration is given to the following: However, increases may be made above required to deliver the Remuneration this level at the Committees discretion to Pay increases for other employees in Groups strategy.
Committee when take account of individual circumstances major operating businesses of the Group setting and reviewing Rewards executives for the such as: The individuals skills and responsibilities salaries annually.
Increase in scope and responsibility Pay at companies of a similar size and Set at a level that allows Increase to reect the individuals international scope to Sage, in particular fully exible operation of development and performance in role e. g. those within the FTSE 100 excluding the our variable pay plans.
for a new appointment where base salary top 30 may be increased over time rather than Corporate and individual performance set directly at the level of the previous incumbent or market level Alignment to market level Accordingly, no monetary maximum has been set.
Pension Dened contribution plan with Company 25% of base salary for all executive directors.
Provide a competitive postcontributions set as a percentage of No element other than base salary retirement benefit, in a way base salary.
that manages the overall An individual may elect to receive some cost to the Company.
or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Benets The Group provides a range of benets Set at a level which the Remuneration None.
Provide a competitive and which may include a car benefit or cash Committee considers: cost-eective benets equivalent, private medical insurance, Appropriately positioned against package to executives to permanent health insurance, life comparable roles in companies of a similar assist them to carry out their assurance and financial advice.
size and complexity in the relevant market duties eectively.
Additional benets may also be provided Provides a sucient level of benefit based in certain circumstances which may on the role and individual circumstances, include relocation expenses, housing such as relocation allowance and school fees.
Other benets As the costs of providing benets will depend may be oered if considered appropriate on a directors individual circumstances, the and reasonable by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee has not set a monetary maximum 86 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016
