Directors remuneration report Annual statement Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce our 2016 Directors Remuneration Report the Report.
Included within this Report is the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, which subject to Shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM will apply from that date, 9 May 2017, replacing the Policy which was approved by Shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
The Policy, together with our Annual Report on Directors Remuneration, will be presented to Shareholders for approval at the AGM on 9 May 2017.
Our remuneration philosophy As previously reported, our long-standing focus and business policy is founded on the premise that staff in our sector are motivated through highly incentive and performance-based and, therefore, variable remuneration consistent with our partnership style culture.
Governance We firmly believe that this approach best aligns shareholders and This Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the managements interests and incentivises superior performance and Remuneration Committee the Committee in accordance with the the creation of long-term Shareholder value.
This approach also requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and ensures that our reward arrangements are consistent with and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports sensitive to the cyclical nature of real estate markets.
Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations and the auditable disclosures referred to in the External Auditors Report on pages 86 Our Policy is designed to deliver these objectives and to provide to 92 as specified by the UK Listing Authority and the Regulations.
the reward potential necessary for the Company to attract, retain and motivate the high-calibre individuals on whom its continued 20122016 Overview growth and development depend.
Reflecting this philosophy, the salaries for the Executive Directors, Group Executive Board members and senior fee-earners are set significantly below market Underlying Profit medians for similar businesses, with a greater emphasis on the performance-related elements of profit share and or, outside the UK, commission in the total reward package.
123% The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to reward appropriately, but not excessively.
As such, it places great emphasis Dividend Payments to Shareholders on the calibration of Executive Director remuneration and structure against internal relativities, whilst also rigorously assessing competitive positioning in setting remuneration.
Finally, it determines targets to ensure that reward properly reflects performance, that it 94% supports the delivery of our strategic and operational objectives and that it is fair to management and shareholders alike.
Overall, we continue to expect employment costs over the cycle to be in the Executive Director Remuneration range of 65%70% of revenues.
2016 performance and remuneration Annual performance-related profit share 58% Savills delivered excellent performance in 2016, against a tough background that included increased stamp duty rate in UK residential, the Brexit vote and the slowdown in the market leading Total Shareholder Return up to the US presidential election.
Key financial highlights for the year included: 69% Revenue of 1,445.9m, representing growth of 13% on 2015 Underlying profit before tax of 135.8m, which represented 12% growth on 2015 Transaction Advisory revenues up 7% driven by market share The dividend cost for 2016 comprises the cost of the final dividend recommended by the Board amounting to 13.5m, payment of which is subject to shareholder gains in Asia Pacific, particularly China, and strong growth in approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM scheduled to be held Continental European markets on 9 May 2017, the cost of the supplemental dividend 19.5m declared by the 52% growth in profits in Continental Europe following improved Board on 21 March 2017 payable to shareholders on the Register of Members as market conditions, improved Investment Management at 18 April 2017 and the interim dividend 5.9m paid on 5 October 2016. performance and the benefit of business development activity in Executive Director remuneration comprises the remuneration paid to the Group recent years Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer job-holders between Further consistent growth from less transactional services 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2016.
Since 1 July 2010 the Executive Director Property Management revenue up 21%: Consultancy revenue representation on the Board has comprised these job holders.
up 4% Savills plc 60 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition to this, 2016 also saw further strong progress in the therefore be 2.05m and for the Group Chief Financial Officer, therefore be 1.5375m, being 2.5% higher than the cap applying delivery of the Groups longer-term strategic objectives, in particular: in 2016, reflecting year-on-year growth in RPI 2016 caps: Group CEO 2m: Group CFO 1.5m.
Annual awards will be the ongoing development of our US platform, in particular by extending geographic coverage to Atlanta, the Carolinas and determined as follows: 75% based on a Group UPBT performance previously 70% Denver, and ensuring the full integration of the Silicon Valley and Toronto businesses acquired in 2015: of opportunity 25% on the achievement of pre-set personal strategic and the successful completion of the full integration of the former SEB Asset Management business acquired in September 2015 operational objectives previously 30% of opportunity into Savills Investment Management, which saw overall revenues up more than 60% in the first full year of the combined business: The Group UPBT payment scale will be adjusted for any acquisitions disposals in the year which impact Group UPBT by the further strengthening of our service offering in Asia Pacific, particularly in Australia and China, through targeted recruitment: more than 7.5% on an annualised basis.
In such cases the scale will be adjusted to neutralise the benefit of any overage above the and the further improvement in the connectivity between our 7.5% level.
businesses globally, enhancing the client offering.
As now, the first element of any award equal to up to 100% of base salary will be paid as cash.
Above the level of this first At the beginning of 2016, the Committee set stretching financial targets for the 70% of the performance-related profit share relating element, 50% of any award previously progressively up to 33% will be deferred in the form of shares for three years, receipt of to the delivery of underlying profit before tax UPBT.
The Group delivered a very strong financial performance in 2016, which will be contingent on continued employment subject to normal good leaver protections.
The minimum cash threshold notwithstanding the market uncertainties noted above, and financial performance exceeded the maximum target.
As such, the reflects Savills highly unusual approach of a low base salary, which with regard to bonus deferral unfairly penalises Executive Executive Directors received the maximum potential award in relation to financial performance.
In relation to the objectives-based Directors relative both to internal and external comparators.
For completeness, the 50% bonus deferral will also operate after element which accounts for up to 30% of annual award, the Executive Directors were deemed to have performed towards the taking account of any charitable donations made out of awards i. e. if an Executive Director elects to waive part of a bonus to top end of their personal strategic and operational objectives.
Full details of the annual performance-related profit share awards gift it to charity, deferral will not apply to that element Performance Share Plan: annual grants to be made at the approved by the Committee for the Executive Directors are included along with the other elements of remuneration in the existing award levels of up to 2x base salary for the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The EPS total remuneration table on page 74 of this Report.
growth and relative Total Shareholder Return targets will initially Policy for 201719 remain unchanged from those applying in 2016, but will be In my letter introducing our Directors Remuneration Report for subject to ongoing review to ensure that these continue to 2015, I advised that during the course of 2016 the Committee provide meaningful targets in the light of market developments.
intended to undertake a review of the Directors Remuneration A two year post-vesting holding period will be introduced Policy approved by Shareholders in 2014 in anticipation of seeking Share Ownership Guidelines will be increased to 500% from c. Shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM for the Policy which will 400% of salary, which can be achieved through purchase or the apply for the next three years.
This review has been completed and retention of any after-tax shares which vest until the guideline is the Committee has concluded that the Groups long-standing met.
This moves the Companys approach to a position which is approach to Executive Director and senior management reward ahead of the latest best practice guidance even when taking should be maintained and that accordingly we should leave the into account the lower than market base salaries.
expiring policy essentially unchanged save for some amendments to ensure consistency with emerging governance best practice.
Governance developments The Committee therefore recommends that the Directors On behalf of the Committee, I wanted to take the opportunity to Remuneration Policy is renewed on the following basis: thank Peter Smith and Martin Angle, who served as members of the Committee until their retirement from the Board at the Base salaries: no change to the established approach of conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
offering low base salaries, relative to market medians which approach applies to the Executive Directors, Group Executive As a Committee, we continue to monitor best practice Board Members and other senior fee-earners is proposed.
developments in executive remuneration and have incorporated a Salaries will continue to be reviewed each year although not number of these features in the proposed refined Directors necessarily increased.
For 2017, the Committee approved in Remuneration Policy.
We have consulted with our major principle a 2.5% increase in the Executive Directors base shareholders in relation to the proposed Policy who, I am pleased salaries, which will be used as the reference salary in future to report, were broadly supportive.
The Committee is appreciative years when considering subsequent salary increases, but no of the significant shareholder support that it has enjoyed in recent actual increase will be applied in 2017 years and welcomed shareholders endorsement of the 2015 Benefits & pension: again no changes are proposed, so these Annual Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM.
We hope that you will continue to be set below market rates find this years Annual Remuneration Report equally clear and Annual performance-related profit share: maximum opportunity informative and that you will continue to support us by voting in to be increased in line with increases in RPI annually or if no favour of the resolutions at this years AGM on 9 May 2017. increase in RPI to remain unchanged, to incentivise and reward the Executive Directors for delivering further significant Rupert Robson improvements in performance.
For 2017, the cap on the profit Chairman of the Remuneration Committee share opportunity will, for Group Chief Executive Officer, Savills plc 61 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Role of the Committee Meetings The principal role of the Committee is to support the Group to Attendance table achieve its strategic objectives by designing a remuneration policy Meetings consistent with the Groups business model such that we have the Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate the high-calibre individuals needed to deliver the Groups strategy while promoting Rupert Robson 5 5 the long-term interests of the Company.
The Committee also Tim Freshwater 5 5 considers the broader implications of the policy to mitigate any Liz Hewitt 5 5 potential environmental, social or governance implications.
The Committee is responsible for the broad policy governing senior Peter Smith retired 11 May 2016 3 3 staff pay and remuneration.
It sets the actual levels of all elements Martin Angle retired 11 May 2016 3 3 of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviews that of Group Executive Board members.
The policy remains under periodic review to ensure that it remains consistent with the As at 31 December 2016 and up to the date of this Report, the Companys scale and scope of operations, supports business Committee comprises the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
strategy and growth plans and helps drive the creation of Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members shareholder value.
The Committee also oversees the operation of are shown on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee met five times during the year.
The principal Committee members and attendees agenda items considered by the Committee during the year were As shown in the table below, the Committee comprises the as follows: Independent Non-Executive Directors: reviewing the Groups remuneration policy: Committee member Position Status agreeing performance targets for both the annual performanceRupert Robson Chair of the Committee Independent related profit share and Performance Share Plan awards: Tim Freshwater Member of the Committee Independent preparing an Annual Remuneration Report consistent with the legislation relating to executive remuneration: Liz Hewitt Member of the Committee Independent agreeing the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors Peter Smith Member of the Committee Non-Executive and reviewing those of Group Executive Board members: to 11 May 2016 Chairman approving the grant of Performance Share Plan awards: and Martin Angle Member of the Committee Independent approving the grant of share awards to fee-earners and senior managers across the Group.
to11 May 2016 Committee attendee Position Status Advisors to the Committee In determining Executive Director remuneration, the Committee has Nicholas Ferguson Non-Executive Chairman access to detailed external information and research on market Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Executive Officer Attends by trends and peer practice provided by its independent external invitation advisor.
To ensure that the Committee continued to receive except when appropriate external advice, particularly in the context of renewing his own the remuneration policy, it reviewed its ongoing external advice remuneration requirements.
Following a formal review process, FIT Remuneration is discussed Consultants were appointed by the Committee to be its external independent advisor.
FIT Remuneration Consultants are members of Chris Lee Group Legal & Provides the Remuneration Consultants Group, and adhere to the voluntary Company Secretary advice and code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in support the UK.
FIT Remuneration Consultants fees are based on a time and except when material basis, within the parameters of an overall annual budget.
In his own 2016, FIT Remuneration Consultants received fees of 61,069 plus remuneration VAT and the outgoing adviser, Deloitte, received fees of 23,300 plus is discussed VAT in relation to advice provided to the Committee.
Neither FIT as well as Remuneration Consultants nor Deloitte provided any other services acting as to the Group during the year.
Secretary to the Committee Simon Shaw, Group Chief Financial Officer, may be invited to attend meetings to provide an overview of market conditions and the Groups prospective financial performance.
Savills plc 62 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from FIT Remuneration Consultants and Deloitte during the year was entirely objective and independent.
The Committee will continue to keep these arrangements under review to ensure that they remain appropriate to the needs of the Committee in developing remuneration policy to support the delivery of Group strategy.
The Committee is also advised internally by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary save in relation to matters concerning his own remuneration.
Given the fundamental role that remuneration plays in the success of the Group, in terms of the recruitment, motivation and retention of high-quality staff, the Group Chief Executive Officer attends meetings by invitation and is consulted on the remuneration package of the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Terms of Reference The Committees Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, or by exception to take account of regulatory changes or best practice, are available from the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary upon request or can be viewed on the Companys website www.
Savills plc 63 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy The Groups remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, Group Executive Board members and senior fee-earners are structured to provide acompetitive mix of variable performance-related i. e. annual performance profit share and longer-term incentives and fixed remuneration principally base salary to reflect individual and corporate performance.
The objective is to set targets which provide an appropriate balance between being achievable and stretching.
In determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviewing that of the Group Executive Board members, the Committee reviews the role and responsibility of the individual, their performance, the arrangements applying across the wider employee group and internal pay relativities.
It also considers sector and broader market practice in the context of the prevailing economic conditions andcorporate performance on environmental, social and governanceissues.
Overview of the Policy A summary of the proposed policy for Executive Directors andhow it will be applied for 2017 is set out below.
Element Summary of approach Change from previous policy Application of policy for 2017 Base salary Base salaries are set significantly below Maximum salary introduced, The Committee has approved in market median levels, in line with the the cap being introduced to principle an increase in the base salaries Groups philosophy to place greater comply with regulatory of the Executive Directors of 2.5% for emphasis on variable, performanceguidance and not 2017 Reference Salary, however related remuneration.
representing any form of these increases have not actually been aspiration.
implemented Salaries in 2017 will therefore be as follows: Group Chief Executive Officer: 275,000 Group Chief Financial Officer: 210,000 Pension Pension benefits are provided through No material changes.
Pension contributions salary aGroup personal pension plan, as supplements for 2017 are: anon-pensionable salary supplement oras a contribution to apersonal Group Chief Executive Officer: 14% of pension arrangement.
salary Group Chief Financial Officer: 18% of The CEO receives a pension from the salary.
legacy defined benefitpension plan but no longer accrues benefits underthe plan.
Benefits Benefits include: Maximum value of car Benefits in line with policy.
allowance and relocation Medical insurance benefits: expenses introduced.
Annual car car allowance up to 10,000 : Permanent Health Insurance: Life insurance: and Relocation expenses Annual performanceReflects the Groups annual profit Maximum potential award The maximum potential annual profit share awards for 2017 are: related profit share performance and personal performance increased from 2m to against pre-set objectives and overall 2.05m and to increase Group Chief Executive Officer: contribution.
annually thereafter in line with increases in RPI over the 2.05m Group Chief Financial Officer: In line with the Groups philosophy that previous 12 months.
there is greater emphasis than under 1.5375m.
listed company norms on variable Deferral simplified and For 2017 profit share awards, 75% will be performance-related pay.
increased to apply to 50% of all payments above 100% of based on the Groups annual profit performance and 25% will be based on the 50% of any award payable above base salary.
delivery of strategic and operational 100% of base salary is deferred into performance goals.
The Committee shares for three years.
reserves its ability to vary these proportions or apply different additional measures in Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Savills plc 64 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element Summary of approach Change from previous policy Application of policy for 2017 Two-year holding period The awards for 2017 will be up to 200% Performance Awards of shares are made subject to SharePlan athree-year performance period.
vested awards will then be subject to an additional two-year holding period.
For 2017 Performance Share Plan awards, 50% of the award will vest subject to The maximum award potential remains at Earnings Per Share performance and 50% 200% of base salary, subject to an overall will vest subject to relative TSR annual maximum of shares with a value performance against the FTSE Mid 250 of 1m on award per participant.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Share Ownership Achieved through share purchase and Increased to 500% of 500% of base salary for the Group Chief Guidelines or retention of any after-tax shares which base salary.
Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial vest pursuant to the Groups share plans Officer.
until the guideline is met.
Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the Report sets out the policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 the Policy.
The Policy will apply from the 2017 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
Policy table The following table sets out the Policy for each component of Executive Directors remuneration.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Base salary A core component The Committee considers base salary Set significantly below market n a of the total reward levels annually taking into median levels with greater package, which consideration: emphasis on the performancepackage overall is related elements of reward.
For designed to the Groups philosophy to place 2017, the Committee in principle attract, motivate greater emphasis on variable approved an increase in base and retain performance-related remuneration salaries of 2.5%: however, these individuals of the the individuals experience increases were not implemented.
the size and scope of the role The Committee will consider the the general level of salary reviews higher Reference Salary when across the Group considering subsequent appropriate external market increases: competitive data.
Group Chief Executive Officer: 275,000 Reference Salary 282,000 Group Chief Financial Officer: 210,000 Reference Salary 215,000.
Although base salaries are reviewed annually, inline with the Groups philosophy, the Committee does not intend to make annual incremental base salary increases for Executive Directors.
However, the Committee retains the flexibility to award base salary increases taking into consideration the factors considered aspart of the annual review.
The annual base salary for any existing Executive Director shall not exceed 500,000.
Savills plc 65 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Pension n a Provides Defined contribution pension For 2017 the pension appropriate arrangements are provided.
contributions supplements are: retirement benefits.
HMRC-approved salary and profit Group Chief Executive Officer: Rewards share sacrifice arrangements are in 14% of annual base salary sustained place.
Pension benefits are provided Group Chief Financial Officer: contribution.
either through aGroup personal 18% of annual base salary.
pension plan, as anon-pensionable salary supplement, contribution to As part of the funding apersonal pension arrangement, arrangements agreed when Savills orequivalent arrangement for overseas Defined Benefit Pension Plan the jurisdictions.
Plan was closed to future accrual in 2010, the Group Chief Executive Officer receives a minimum contribution of 14%.
The maximum contribution will be no more than the maximum contribution for all other former members of the plan.
The maximum annual pension contribution for the current Chief Financial Officer is 18%.
The Plan is closed to future accruals.
However, legacy arrangements will be honoured.
New recruits would normally participate in defined contribution arrangements or take a nonpensionable salary supplement.
The level of contribution would be determined at the time of appointment and may be set at a higher level than that set out above although a contribution limit of 20% of annual base salary per Executive Director has been set for the duration of this policy.
For international appointments, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate, and when determining arrangements, the Committee will have regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice in the relevant international jurisdiction and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Savills plc 66 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Benefits To provide market Benefits currently comprise: Car allowance currently up to n a competitive amaximum of 9,000 p. a.. benefits.
Medical insurance benefits Car car allowance There is no overall maximum as the Permanent Health Insurance cost of insurance benefits depends Life insurance.
on the individuals circumstances but the provision of taxable Other benefits may be provided if the benefits will normally operate Committee considers it appropriate.
within an annual limit of 30% of an Executive Directors annual base Where an Executive Director is located salary.
in adifferent international jurisdiction, benefits may reflect market practice in The Committee will monitor the that jurisdiction.
costs in practice and ensure that the overall costs do not increase In the event that an existing Executive by more than the Committee Director or new Executive Director considers to be reasonable in all isrequired by the Group to relocate, the circumstances.
other benefits may be provided including but not limited to Relocation expenses are subject arelocation allowance, housing to a maximum limit of 200,000 allowance and tax equalisation.
300,000 in the case of an international relocation plus, if relevant, the cost of tax equalisation.
Annual performance-related profit share To encourage the Annual profit share awards reflect In line with the Groups philosophy, For 2017, the weighting will be 75% in achievement of theGroups annual profit performance there isgreater emphasis on relation to the Groups annual profit challenging and personal performance and variable performance-related pay, performance defined as underlying financial, strategic contribution.
while base salaries are set profit before tax performance and 25% and or operational significantly below market median in relation to delivery against a mix of targets.
Awards are delivered part in cash and levels.
personal, strategic and operational Further alignment part in shares subject to a minimum objectives.
The Committee reserves with shareholders cash threshold of 100% of annual The maximum potential annual the right to vary these proportions in interests through salary.
Thereafter, 50% of any award profit share awards for 2017 are: subsequent years and or to add deferral of a is delivered in shares.
additional or substitute measures to significant amount 2.05m for the Group Chief ensure that incentive remains ofany award into The share element of any award is Executive Officer appropriate tobusiness strategy.
normally deferred for a period of 1.5375m for the Group Chief three years.
The scale for the profit share element of any award will be disclosed annually The number of shares in that part of For anew Executive Director, the in arrears.
the award deferred for three years is Committee woulddetermine the increased at the time of vesting to appropriate normal maximum Unless the Committee determines reflect the value of dividends declared taking into account the role and otherwise, this scale will normally be over the deferral period.
Alternatively responsibility, subject to adjusted for any acquisitions disposals the cash equivalent is paid.
a. in a single year which impact on an annualised basis UPBT by more than The Committee may exercise its Each of these caps will increase in 7.5%.
In such cases the scale will be judgement to adjust on a downwards line with the rate of any increase in adjusted to neutralise the benefit of any only basis individual annual bonus RPI for the preceding financial overage above the 7.5% level.
payouts should they not reflect overall year if there is no increase in RPI, business performance or individual the cap will remain unchanged.
If there is significant transaction that contribution.
results in the scale becoming inappropriate then Shareholders will Malus clawback provisions apply, be consulted about any adjustment to allowing for the reduction of awards as the scale.
explained in the notes to this table.
The award potential atthreshold is 25%.
As the arrangement is an annual profit share there is no pre-set award level for on-target performance.
Savills plc 67 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Performance Share Plan PSP To drive and Awards of shares subject to Maximum annual award potential Performance conditions for future reward the aperformance period of normally of 200% of salary plan rules limit.
awards are reviewed annually to ensure that the measures and their delivery of noless than three years.
A holding longer-term period will apply so that Executive Subject to an overall maximum of targets remain appropriate tobusiness strategy and are sustainable Directors may not normally exercise 1m per annum per participant.
shareholder value, vested PSP awards until the fifth sufficiently challenging, and that the relative balance of the performance aid retention and anniversary of the award date.
For anew Executive Director, the ensure alignment Committee woulddetermine the measures remains appropriate for properly incentivising and rewarding of senior PSP awards may be in the form appropriate normal maximum management ofnilcost options or conditional taking into account the role and the creation of longer-term sustainable shareholder value.
Awards responsibility, subject to interests.
mayincorporate an award of taxamaximum of 200% of base Performance conditions are currently advantaged Company shareoption salary p. a. or if lower, 1m p. a.. plan options.
based on two measures: The Committee awards dividend Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts equivalents on areinvested basis inrespect of dividends paid over the or other appropriate comparator group vesting or any subsequent holding period.
The Committee may review the Malus clawback provisions apply, performance measures for the PSP allowing forthe reduction of awards as to ensure they remain aligned to the explained in the notes to this table.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders in The Committee may adjust vesting advance of achange in performance ofawards if it considers that the measures used for the PSP.
outcome of the measurement of theperformance conditions does No more than 25% of an award vests notaccurately reflect the underlying for threshold performance.
performance or financial health of theCompany.
In the event the Committee proposed to make an upward adjustment the Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards in accordance with the PSP rules.
UK tax advantaged all-employee share plans Share plans Executive Directors are eligible to Maximum Partnership Shares in n a available to all UK participate in any of the Groups accordance with statutory limits.
employees in the all-employee share plans on the same The Company does not presently Group who satisfy terms as other UK employees.
offer Free Shares, Matching the statutory Shares or Dividend Shares.
Savills plc 68 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Shareholding Guidelines To encourage Executive Directors are expected to 500% of salary for all Executive n a share ownership purchase and or retain all shares net of Directors.
by the Executive tax which vest under the Groups share Directors and plans or any other discretionary ensure interests long-term incentive arrangement are aligned.
introduced in the future until such time as they hold a specified value of shares.
Only beneficially-owned shares and vested share awards including PSP vested awards subject to a holding period discounted for anticipated tax liabilities may be counted for the purposes of the guidelines.
Share awards do not count towards this requirement prior to vesting.
Once shareholding guidelines have been met, individuals are expected to retain these levels as a minimum.
The Committee will review shareholdings annually in the context of this policy.
When satisfying awards made under its Sharesave Scheme and the PSP under which some options remain available for exercise, the Company may use newly-issued shares, subject to compliance with institutional guidelines.
For all other share schemes, including the Deferred Share Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan, awards are satisfied via employee benefit trusts EBTs following purchase in the market.
Currently, the Company makes use of two EBTs, a US Rabbi Trust for US tax residents and a Guernsey-based EBT for all other share scheme participants.
As previously agreed with shareholders, up to 15% of the Groups issued share capital can be held in aggregate in the EBTs at any time.
There are no powers to issue new shares or to reissue its existing treasury shares under either the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, Deferred Share Plan or the EBTs and, therefore, there is no further dilution of existing shareholdings.
Malus and clawback Malus being the forfeiture of unvested awards and clawback being the ability of the Company to reclaim paid amounts as a debt provisions apply to the annual performance-related profit share and the PSP.
These provisions may be applied where the Committee considers it appropriate to do so following: amaterial misstatement of the Groups financial results: serious misconduct by the individual: afactual error in calculating an award or vesting: and other exceptional developments which have an actual or potential material adverse effect on the value or reputation of the Group as determined by the Committee.
Clawback will apply for atwo-year period post the vesting of awards.
In the event of aregulatory or criminal inquiry being ongoing at that point, theclawback period will be extended to asix-month period post the conclusion of such an inquiry.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to fees Operation Other items Fees for the Chairman and other NonFees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are Non-Executive Directors are not entitled Executive Directors are set at an appropriate determined by the Non-Executive Chairman and the toparticipate in any of the Groups level taking into consideration individual roles Executive Directors on behalf of the Board.
incentive arrangements or share and responsibilities, the time commitment schemes.
required and external market practice.
Fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors do not Fees will generally be increased annually in currently receive any taxable benefits line with increases in RPI over the previous The Non-Executive Director fee policy is to pay: however, they arecovered by Directors 12 months.
a basic fee for membership of the Board All fees for membership of the Board are Committee chairmanship and Senior Independent Expenses incurred in the performance subject to the maximum payable to Director fees to reflect the additional responsibilities of Non-Executive duties for the Non-Executive Directors as stated in the and time commitment of the roles.
Company may bereimbursed or paid Companys Articles of Association currently for directly by theCompany, including 500,000 for the Chairman and NED base The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee forthe role.
any tax due on thebenefits.
fees and within an additional limit determined by the Non-Executive Chairman Additional fees for membership of aCommittee or Additional benefits may be provided in chairmanship or membership of subsidiary Boards and the Executive Directors on behalf of the the future if the Board considered this Board of 200,000 for any additional or other fixed fees may be introduced, ifconsidered appropriate.
responsibility or other special fees.
Savills plc 69 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes pension payments under legacy defined benefit pension plans and the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment were agreed at the time the award was granted.
Clawback or malus may apply where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to clawback or malus.
The Committee may increase the proportion of annual performance-related profit share deferred into shares.
The PSP will be operated in accordance with the rules of that plan as approved by shareholders.
In accordance with those rules the Committee has discretion in the following areas as well as general administrative discretion : the Committee may adjust the number of shares under award if there is a capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction or any other variation in the share capital, a demerger or special dividend: a performance condition for an existing award may be amended if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an amended performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no less difficult to satisfy: on a change of control or winding up the number of shares will be subject to any relevant performance conditions and time pro-rated.
The Committee has discretion not to apply this reduction or to apply an alternative or no performance condition.
Additionally, participants may have the opportunity to exchange their awards for equivalent awards in the new holding Company: and the Committee has the discretion to treat a demerger as an early vesting event on the same basis as a change of control.
Performance measures and target setting Annual Performance-Related Profit Share Performance measures for the annual performance-related profit share are intended to provide a balance between incentivising executives to meet near-term profit objectives and the creation of longer-term shareholder value through an appropriate mix of strategic, operational and personal performance goals.
Consistent with the Groups partnership style culture, annual profit performance is the primary performance measure.
Targets are set to be appropriately stretching, by reference to the Groups internal business plans and to align with returns to shareholders over the cycle.
A portion of the award relates to strategic, operational and personal objectives.
These objectives are determined annually by the Committee and incentivise sustainable improvements in the underlying drivers of performance and the continued development and further growth of the Group.
Performance Share Plan For the PSP, the use of a mix of relative Total Shareholder Return and earnings measures ensures that the Groups Executive Directors are focused on delivering both absolute bottom line growth and strong returns to shareholders relative to an appropriate comparator group.
In the event the Committee considered it appropriate to change the performance measures for the PSP, any new measure would be selected to be in line with the Groups long-term business strategy and to support long-term shareholder value creation.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance of a change in a performance measure used for the PSP.
The performance targets for the PSP are reviewed periodically and set taking into account market conditions, external market forecasts, internal business forecasts and market practice.
The Committee may also adjust the targets in the light of corporate activity e. g. merger and acquisition activity, capital events or changes to accounting rules to ensure that targets remain appropriate.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The remuneration policy for Executive Directors follows the same key principles as that for senior and fee-earning employees generally in the Group that salaries are below the market median with a greater emphasis placed on variable, performance-related remuneration.
Any differences in the specific policies generally reflect differences in market practice for differences in seniority.
For support staff, salaries are set around market median levels to ensure the Group is able to recruit and retain high quality individuals.
Other than Executive Directors, only Group Executive Board members are currently eligible to receive awards under the PSP on an annual basis.
Other senior staff may be granted share awards under the Companys Deferred Share Plan if there are particular business reasons for applying a retention element to remuneration.
Savills plc 70 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Illustrations of application of the Policy The charts below illustrate how much the current Executive Directors could earn under three different performance scenarios for 2017: Minimum, On-target performance and Maximum based on the assumptions below.
Group Chief Executive Of cer Group Chief Financial officer Maximum 11% 70% 19% 2.92m Maximum 12% 69% 19% 2.22m On-target performance 22% 69% 9% 1.49m On-target performance 23% 68% 9% 1.13m Minimum 100% 0.32m Minimum 100% 0.26m Fixed pay Fixed pay Annual reward Annual reward Long-term reward Long-term reward Element in the above chart Component Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed Pay Base salary 2017 annual base salary Pension 14% of salary for the Group Chief Executive, 18% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer Benefits Annual taxable value of benefits provided in 2016 Annual reward Annual performance- 0% of maximum award 50% of maximum award Group Chief Executive related profit share Officer 2,050,000 Group Chief Financial Officer 1,537,500 Long-term reward PSP 0% of maximum award 25% of maximum award Group Chief Executive Officer 550,000 Group Chief Financial Officer 420,000 Other assumptions A constant share price has been used Excludes additional shares representing the value of dividends declared during the vesting period which may attach to the deferred element of any annual performance-related profit share award or PSP award at vesting Assumes that no awards are made under tax-advantaged all-employee share plans The proposed new Policy does not include an on-target level for the annual performance-related profit share so the on-target in line with the previous policy has been used as the overall intent of the changes was not to change payouts for target performance levels Approach to remuneration on recruitment In the event that the Board appoints a new Executive Director, in determining his or her new remuneration package the Committee would take into consideration all relevant factors including the calibre, skills and experience of the individual and the market from which they are recruited.
In determining the remuneration package the Committee remains mindful of the need to avoid paying more than is necessary on recruitment.
Buy-outs To facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director, the Committee may make awards to buy-out remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee would take into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, the vesting conditions attached to the awards and any performance conditions.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buy-out awards will be of up to a comparable commercial value of the awards that have been forfeited.
The Committee may make use of LR9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for the purpose of buy-outs only.
Fixed remuneration The remuneration policy for current Executive Directors reflects the Groups overall philosophy of paying base salaries which are significantly below market medians and greater emphasis on performance-related elements of reward.
However, the Committee is mindful of the need to retain flexibility for the purpose of recruitment, taking into account the range of potential circumstances which might give rise to the need to recruit a new Executive Director.
Against that background, the policy for the fixed element of reward for a new Executive Director allows: the base salary for a new appointee to be set in line with market levels rather than below market levels: or provision of a salary supplement for a period of time as an Executive Director transitions to a lower fixed pay over time.
Where an Executive Director is located in a different international jurisdiction, benefits may reflect market practice in that jurisdiction.
Savills plc 71 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued New recruits would normally participate in defined contribution arrangements or take a non-pensionable salary supplement.
The level of contribution would be determined at the time of appointment and may be set at a higher level than set out above.
This might arise, for example, where a newly appointed Executive Director is recruited on a significantly lower salary than in his or her previous position taking into account the structure of remuneration at Savills.
For international appointments, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate, and when determining arrangements the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice in the relevant international jurisdiction and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Consistent with the Regulations, the formal caps on fixed pay in the Policy do not apply on recruitment although the Committee would seek to apply such caps in any element to the extent it considers it to be feasible to do so.
Variable remuneration The variable remuneration annual performance-related profit share and PSP awards for a new recruit would be consistent with the policy in the table on pages 64 and 65 excluding buy-outs.
In the case of an employee who is promoted to the position of Executive Director including if an Executive Director is appointed following an acquisition or merger, it is the Companys policy to honour pre-existing awards and contractual commitments.
Non-Executive Directors In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table above.
Interim appointments In the event that an interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis or a Non-Executive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis, then an additional fee or salary supplement and or participation in the variable pay arrangements may be provided.
Director service contracts and termination policy When determining the leaving arrangements for an Executive Director, the Committee takes into account any pre-established agreements including the provision of any incentive plans, typical market practice, the performance and conduct of the individual and the commercial justification for any payments.
The following summarises our policy in relation to Executive Director service contracts and payments in the event of a loss of office: 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Notice periods For new appointees, the Committee reserves the right to increase the period of notice required from the Company in the first year of employment to up to 24 months, decreasing on a monthly basis to 12 months on the first anniversary of employment.
Jeremy Helsby 1 May 1999 Contract dates Simon Shaw 16 March 2009 Expiry dates Contracts are rolling service contracts with no expiry date.
Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to base salary, pension, private medical Elements of insurance, car allowance or the provision of a Company car and confirm their eligibility to participate although remuneration not necessarily receive any award in the Companys annual performance-related profit share arrangements, the PSP and other employee share schemes.
If an Executive Directors employment is to be terminated, the Committees policy in respect of the service Termination contract, in the absence of a breach by the Director, is to agree a termination payment based on the value of payments and treatment of base salary and contractual benefits and pension entitlements in their notice period.
In addition, if they are the annual classified as good leavers as defined in their service agreements which expression does not include dismissal performancedue to poor performance or voluntary resignation unless the Committee so determines, they may also receive a related profit pro-rata annual performance-related profit share and retain outstanding incentive awards.
The policy is that, as is share considered appropriate at the time, the departing Executive Director may work, or be placed on garden leave, for all or part of his her notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the service agreement.
The Committee will consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances.
No performance-related profit share element would be paid in respect of notice periods not worked.
In addition, where the Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of his her statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable in the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into a settlement agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under the service agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, and to record any agreement in relation to any annual performance-related profit share award, in line with the policies described above and or, as below, share awards.
Savills plc 72 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Treatment of Deferred share awards share incentives Deferred share awards made or to be made under the annual performance-related profit share scheme are subject to forfeiture if the award-holder leaves service prior to the vesting date other than in defined good leaver situations.
Good leaver circumstances are death, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement, the employing Company being sold or transferred outside of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For good leavers, any outstanding deferred share award will normally vest on the normal maturity date although the Committee has discretion to accelerate to the date of cessation.
Where a good leaver circumstance is at the Committees discretion rather than a prescribed circumstance, vesting may be on such date and such terms as it may determine.
PSP In the event that a participant is a good leaver, any outstanding unvested PSP awards will normally be pro-rated for time in service during the relevant performance period with performance measured to the end of the performance period and vesting occurring at the normal vesting date.
Any applicable holding period will also normally apply although the Committee may choose to release such shares earlier.
In particular circumstances e. g. death, the Committee has the power to vary these provisions, including to allow for early vesting.
For all other leavers, outstanding unvested awards lapse.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee for example, retirement.
If an award has been granted as an option and a participant ceases to work for the Group after the option has become exercisable, he she will normally be permitted to exercise outstanding options within a period of six months following the end of the performance period or cessation of employment where this is after the end of the performance period as appropriate.
In the event of the death of a participant the personal representatives will be able to exercise an option in accordance with the PSP rules.
All-employee share plans Sharesave: Awards vest in accordance with their terms, under which good leavers are entitled to receive shares on or shortly after cessation, but other leavers normally forfeit any awards.
Share Incentive Plan SIP : shares which have been held in the SIP for at least five years are released to leavers free from income tax and social security charges.
Some tax and social security charges will be payable on shares taken out of the SIP within five years of purchase unless the participant is a good leaver.
Other awards Where an award is made for the purpose of recruitment for example a buy-out award under LR 9.4.
2 then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award having regard to the circumstances of the recruitment, the terms of awards being bought out and the principles for leavers in the current policy.
Executive Directors are subject to post-employment restrictive covenants for a period of six months post-cessation.
Other information The Company may also meet ancillary costs, such as outplacement consultancy and or reasonable legal costs, if the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
As part of decisions being made on the annual pay review, the Committee is informed about the approach to salary increase and the outcome of annual performance-related profit share and other incentive arrangements such as fee-earner commission schemes across the Group.
The Committee is also provided with comparative metrics on total employment costs across the Group as a percentage of revenue.
The Company operates a consistent remuneration philosophy across the Group.
In this context, the Committee does not consider it necessary to consult with employees in the Group on the specific remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes into account the views of the Groups shareholders and investor bodies.
The Board and the Committee through the Committee Chairman has open and regular dialogue with our major shareholders on remuneration matters, including consulting with major shareholders where the Committee is considering making material changes to the remuneration policy.
Savills plc 73 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Total remuneration for 2016 Set out below are details of Executive Director remuneration for 2016.
Executive Directors single figure for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and as acomparison for the financial year ended 31December 2015 audited.
No increases in base salary were awarded to the Executive Directors in 2016 in respect of 2015, base salaries were increased effective 1 March 2015 2.
Benefits comprise private medical insurance and car allowance.
The 2016 and 2015 figures exclude any charity pension waiver.
For 2016, Jeremy Helsby waived 45,000 2015: 50,000 and Simon Shaw waived 25,000 2015: 35,000 in favour of contributions to registered charities.
Jeremy Helsby took his pension from the defined benefit pension plan on 9 July 2015 and no benefits costs accrued in this regard in 2016.
5. see the table below For 2016, the notional value of the PSP award with a performance period which ended on 31 December 2016 i. e. where the award will vest in August 2017 has been valued based on the number of shares that will vest and the three month average share price for the period to 31 December 2016 692.44p per share.
The actual value has been split between the relevant value on the date of the original award of the relevant shares the PSP performance element and subsequent increase in value PSP share price appreciation.
The Company did not grant PSP awards in 2013 and accordingly no PSP award vested in respect of performance achieved in the three-year period ended 31 December 2015.
Jeremy Helsby Simon Shaw 2016 2015 2016 2015 Notional Actual Notional Actual Gain on long-term share-based awards 5 Performance Share Plan performance element for 2016: notional 225,000 125,000 5 Performance Share Plan share appreciation element for 2016: notional 34,665 19,256 5 Long-term share-based reward non cash for 2016: notional 259,665 144,256 Total i. e. Single Figure for 2016: part notional 2,497,220 2,297,723 1,878,272 1,717,133 The information in this table has been audited by the Auditor,  LLP.
Performance-related remuneration for 2016 Annual performance-related profit share UPBT performance-related element The following near-term performance measures applied to the 2016 annual performance-related profit share arrangements: 70% of the award was based on profit performance, defined as UPBT performance.
The Committee set targets at alevel which were significantly higher than the previous year.
The target range and Savills performance were as follows: Minimum Target Maximum target Savills UPBT Bonus award 0% of element 50% of element 100% of element performance % of element 80m 117m 134m 135.8m 100% There were pre-defined hurdles between minimum, target and maximum rather than straight-line vesting.
Reflecting the Groups very strong performance in 2016, awards at 100% of the maximum potential were earned by the Executive Directors in respect of the UPBT performance-related element 2015: 100%.
The remaining 30% of annual performance-related profit share awards was based on individual performance against key strategic and operational objectives.
The Executive Directors were respectively awarded CEO 93% and CFO 100% of this 30%.
The Committee set strategic and operational objectives for the Executive Directors which were aligned with value-creation for Savills.
Savills plc 74 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Details of Jeremy Helsbys achievement against the key objectives set included the following: driving the continued development of the Groups US business, in particular by further building-out the tenant rep and corporate services platforms and progressing the strengthening of the capital markets offering with the new capital markets team having joined Savills Studley effective 3 January 2017 : ensuring that appropriate resource and management was in place to facilitate and improve the cross-border servicing of business clients across the Groups geographies: ensuring that appropriate senior management succession plans were in place for each of the Groups Principal Businesses: and sponsoring the launch of the Groups new Asia Pacific and US future leaders development programmes building on the established UK model to ensure that the Group has ready access to the talent required to drive its next stages of growth.
Details of Simon Shaws achievement against the key objectives set are as follows: overseeing the successful integration of the former SEB Asset Management business into the Savills Investment Management platform, with the newly-combined business delivering a 62% increase in revenues in its first full year: continuing to drive the development of the Groups technology offering and upgrade the systems operating platform to complement the Groups global business strategies, in particular overseeing the Groups investment in YOPA, a leading UK hybrid residential agency and the launch of Work There a digital office space locator : and driving the Groups Profit ROCE improvement initiatives, which initiatives in particular contributed to the maintenance of the Groups 2016 UPBT margin at 9.4% 2015: 9.5% For Jeremy Helsby, 33% of the overall award was deferred for a further three-year period in the form of shares, of which Jeremy Helsby elected to waive 45,000 to charity.
For Simon Shaw, 30% of the award was deferred for a further three years in theform of shares, of which Simon Shaw elected to waive 25,000 to charity.
Long-term incentives The PSP award granted in 2014 will vest in August 2017, subject to performance in the three years to 31 December 2016.
Following an assessment of Savills performance against targets set at grant, the Committee determined that 50% of the award should vest.
The targets and Savills performance were as follows: Threshold target Maximum target Savills Vesting Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting performance % of maximum Relative TSR versus FTSE Mid 250 index 50% Equal to index Outperform index Below 0% excluding investment trusts by 8% p. a. index % EPS growth 50% RPI plus 3% p. a. RPI plus 10% p. a.
61.5% 100% compounded compounded Non-Executive Directors fees audited The Non-Executive Director fees for 2016 were as follows: Nicholas Martin Angle Peter Smith Ferguson resigned Tim Liz Charles Rupert resigned Chairman 11 May 2016 Freshwater Hewitt McVeigh Robson 11 May 2016 Basic fee 149,406 18,200 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 60,000 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 1,800 3,200 Remuneration Committee Chairman 7,500 Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 2016 Total 149,406 20,000 53,200 60,000 50,000 57,500 60,000 2015 Total - 59,167 55,625 55,833 50,000 30,303 165,000 The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are determined bythe Non-Executive Chairman and the Executive Directors after considering external market research and individual roles and responsibilities.
The fees for the Non-Executive Chairman are determined bythe Remuneration Committee excluding the Non-Executive Chairman.
The fee payable to Nicholas Ferguson as Chairman is 190,000 p. a.. Nicholas received a fee of 95,000 p. a. pro-rata for the period from his appointment on 26 January 2016 to him being appointed as Chairman on 11 May 2016.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in incentive arrangements or share schemes.
The information in this table has been audited by the Auditor,  LLP.
Savills plc 75 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Operation of Policy in 2017 Base salary The Committee approved a 2.5% salary increase for the Executive Directors for 2017, but this will not be actually implemented.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors will therefore remain as follows: Group Chief Executive Officer: 275,000 p. a. : and Group Chief Financial Officer: 210,000 p. a.
The Committee will use the Reference Salary being the base salaries above increased by 2.5% when considering future salary increases.
In line with our Policy, the base salaries for the Executive Directors continue to be positioned significantly below market median against the FTSE 250.
Variable remuneration Annual performance-related profit share The maximum annual performance-related profit share opportunity for 2017 will be: 2.05m for the Group Chief Executive Officer 1.5375m for the Group Chief Financial Officer For the 2017 performance-related profit share, 75% of award potential will reflect the Groups UPBT performance and 25%of award potential will reflect delivery against amix of personal, strategic and operational objectives.
The Committee considers prospective disclosure of individual objectives to be commercially sensitive and disclosure will, therefore be on aretrospective basis.
The Committee will retain a general discretion to reduce but not, as previously, increase the payout level to reflect exceptional events over the performance period.
Performance Share Plan The remuneration policy is for maximum awards of 200% of base salary.
The PSP awards for 2017 will be up to 2x each Executive Directors base salary.
Awards will vest subject to the satisfaction of EPS targets for 50% of the award as follows: 25% i. e. threshold of the element to vest if the Companys EPS growth is RPI plus 3% p. a. compounded: 100% i. e. the maximum of the element to vest if the Companys EPS growth is RPI plus 8% p. a. compounded or more: and with straight-line vesting between the two points.
The Committee considers that if EPS growth of RPI plus 8% p. a. were achieved from the strong 2016 EPS base starting position, this would represent outstanding performance for shareholders.
The other 50% of the award will vest subject to the satisfaction of relative TSR performance versus the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding investment trusts the Index as follows: 25% i. e. threshold of the element to vest if the Groups TSR performance equals that of the Index: 100% i. e. the maximum of the element to vest if the Groups TSR performance outperforms the Index by 8% p. a. : and with straight-line vesting between the two points.
The awards made to Executive Directors will also be subject to a holding period so that any PSP awards for which the performance vesting conditions are satisfied will not normally be released for a further two years from the third anniversary of the original award date.
Dividend accrual for PSP awards will continue until the end of the holding period.
Relative spend on pay To provide context and outline how remuneration for Executive Directors compares with other disbursements, such as dividends and general employment costs, the table below illustrates general employment costs, Executive Director reward, tax charges and dividend payments to shareholders in 2016 and 2015.
Savills plc 76 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2016 2015 % m m increase Employment costs 948.6 853.2 11 Underlying profit before tax 135.8 121.4 12 Dividend payment to Shareholders 38.9 34.7 12 Executive Director remuneration 4.9 4.9 0 Tax 99.9 99.1 1 Employment costs excluding arrangements for Executive Directors comprise basic salaries, profit share and commissions, social security costs, other pension costs and share-based payments.
Tax comprises corporation tax, employers social security and business rates and equivalent payments.
The dividend cost for 2016 comprises the cost of the final dividend recommended by the Board amounting to 13.5m, payment of which is subject to shareholder approval at the Companys AGM scheduled to be held on 9 May 2017, the cost of the supplemental dividend 19.5m declared by the Board on 21 March 2017 payable to shareholders on the Register of Members as at 18 April 2017 and the interim dividend 5.9m paid on 5 October 2016 and is based on the number of shares in issue asat31December 2016.
Executive Director remuneration is the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer role-holders and comprises basic salaries, profit share, pension costs and share-based payments, and the Companys social security costs in relation to their remuneration.
Total Shareholder Return and Group Chief Executive Officer remuneration The Total Shareholder Return delivered by the Company over the last eight years is shown in the chart below.
Over this period the Company has delivered Total Shareholder Return of 19% per annum FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts : 18% per annum: FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate: 10% per annum.
Savills was ranked 72nd by TSR performance in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and ranked sixth by performance in the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate over the eight years to 31 December 2016.
Total Shareholder Return TSR rebased 8 years to 31 December 2016 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Savills FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate The Board believes t FT ha SE 350 Super S t the FTSE 250 Iec ndte or R x ex eal Esta cluding itn evestment trusts remains the most appropriate index against which to compare TSRover the medium term as it is an index of companies of similar size to Savills.
Savills TSR relative to that of the FTSE 350 Super FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Sector Real Estate Index is also shown, as this index better reflects conditions in real estate markets over recent years.
Savills Pay for performance Annual variable element: Total performance-related profit Long-term incentive fully-vested single figure share annual award against maximum potential of award Remuneration UPBT UPBT annual maximum potential 100% Year 000 m % change % 2016 2,497 135.8 12 98 50 2015 2,298 121.4 21 100 N A 2014 3,279 100.5 34 100 100 2013 2,630 75.2 28 86 100 2012 1,786 58.6 16 65 100 2011 1,268 50.4 7 49 0 Total remuneration in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 includes, as required, the notional value of PSP awards and executive share options which vested but were not exercised in those years note that no PSP awards were made in 2013 withthe consequent effect on Total Single Figure Remuneration in 2015 compared to the 2013, 2014 and 2016 years.
The awards granted in 2008 lapsed in 2011.
Savills plc 77 Report and Accounts 2016 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 Oct-13 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16 Apr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16 Directors remuneration report continued Group Chief Executive Officer pay increase in relation to all UK employees Percentage change in remuneration from 31 12 2015 to 31 12 2016 Percentage change Percentage change Percentage change in base salary in benefits in profit share award % % % Group Chief Executive Officer 0% 1.6% -2.1% All UK employees 1.8% -1.7% -13.7% Notes: 1.
Salary, benefits and bonus is compared against full-time equivalent UK employees.
The UK workforce was chosen as asuitable comparator group as Jeremy Helsby is based in the UK notwithstanding his global role and responsibilities and is in line with policy benefits which vary across the Group by reference to local market conditions and practice.
The base salary for the Group Chief Executive Officer continues to be positioned significantly below the market median against the FTSE 250.
Pensions disclosure From March 2015 the Group Chief Executive Officer received anon-pensionable salary supplement equal to 14% of pensionable earnings.
Thishadreduced from 20% per annum in 2014.
For the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Company contributes 18% per annum of pensionable earnings to his personal pension plan.
The Group Chief Executive Officer no longer accrues a pension benefit under the Savills Defined Benefit Pension Plan the Plan.
The value of the legacy benefit is shown below.
Defined Defined Defined Defined benefit benefit benefit benefit pension pension pensions pensions accrued at accrued at value for 2016 value for 2015 31 December 31 December remuneration remuneration Executive Director 2016 2015 table table Jeremy Helsby 51,112 49,935 29,213 Notes 1.
Jeremy Helsby reached Plan retirement age on 9 July 2015 since which date his pension increases in line with the standard provisions of the Plan applicable to all pensioners.
The valuation of the increase in the defined benefit pension over the year has been determined in accordance with the prescribed methodology for remuneration reporting.
At 31 December 2015, this was based on the pension immediately before retiring of 61,113 p. a..
Under this methodology, no further cost is expected to be reported now that Jeremy Helsby is in receipt of his pension from the Plan.
Share interests Details of shares in the Company which the Directors beneficially held or had abeneficial interest in as at 31 December 2016 are shown below.
Where any vested PSP awards in the future are subject to a holding period requirement, the vested PSP award shares discounted for anticipated tax liabilities will count towards the shareholding requirements: Deferred share bonus Number Unvested plan awards of shares shares vesting not including subject to subject to Extent beneficially performance performance to which held under conditions conditions shareholding Executive Directors the SIP PSP DSBP guideline met Jeremy Helsby 637,303 219,157 230,400 424% Simon Shaw 179,226 119,386 167,434 170% The Company currently applies shareholding requirements of 150,000 shares for the Group Chief Executive Officer and 105,000 shares for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
On the approval of the new Policy by Shareholders, the shareholding requirement will change to a requirement that the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer hold shares to the value of five times their respective base salaries.
New Executive Directors will be expected to build holdings to this level over time, principally through the retention of shares released to them after settling any tax due following the vesting of share awards.
At 31 December Non-Executive Directors 2016 Nicholas Ferguson 29,286 Tim Freshwater Liz Hewitt 3,400 Charles McVeigh Rupert Robson 7,981 Savills plc 78 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements As at 21 March 2017, no Director had bought or sold shares since 31 December 2016, with the exception of Simon Shaw who, as a participant in the Savills Share Incentive Plan SIP, has acquired 47 shares through the SIP since 31 December 2016.
As at 21 March 2017 Simon Shaw holds 179,273 shares.
The Sharesave Scheme No Directors hold outstanding options under the Sharesave Scheme and no options were exercised during the year.
Scheme interests granted in 2016 The following table sets out details of awards made under the PSP in 2016.
% vesting % vesting for Basis of award for threshold maximum Type of award face value Performance period performance performance Performance criteria Jeremy Helsby Nil-cost options 550,000 50% of award Earnings per share growth 50% of award 1 January 2016 to 25% 100% Relative Total Shareholder Simon Shaw Nil-cost options 250,000 31 December 2018 Return against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Awards were also made during the year under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Details of awards under this plan are set out below.
The Performance Share Plan PSP Number of shares Closing mid-market price of a At At share the Market value 31 December Awarded Vested 31 December day before at date of First Directors 2015 during year during year 2016 grant vesting vesting date Jeremy Helsby 75,000 75,000 600.0p 12.08.17 67,073 67,073 820.0p 23.04.18 77,084 77,084 713.5p 27.04.19 Simon Shaw 41,666 41,666 600.0p 12.08.17 42,682 42,682 820.0p 23.04.18 35,038 35,038 713.5p 27.04.19 No shares vested under the PSP to Executive Directors during the year.
The total pre-tax gain on awards vested during the year was 646,833.
During the year, the aggregate gain on the exercise of share options and shares vested was 646,833.
The mid-market closing price oftheshares at 30 December 2016, the last business day of the year, was 700.5p and the range during the year was 548.5p to 886p.
Savills plc 79 Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Exit payments No Executive Director left the Company during the year ended 31 December 2016.
No payments for compensation for loss of office were paid to, or receivable by, any Director for that or any earlier year.
External directorships Savills recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit Savills.
Subject to approval by the Board and any conditions which it might impose, the Executive Directors and Group Executive Board members are allowed to accept external non-executive directorships and retain the fees received, provided that these appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Fornon-executive directorships which are considered toarise by virtue of an Executive Directors or Group Executive Board members position within Savills, the fees are paid directly to Savills.
During 2016, Simon Shaw received a fee of 30,000 in relation to his continuing appointment as Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen plc which he was permitted to keep as this appointment is not linked to his role within the Company.
Service contracts The Executive Directors have rolling service contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice by either the Company or the ExecutiveDirector.
Directors Contract date Jeremy Helsby 1 May 1999 Simon Shaw 16 March 2009 The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman have letters of appointment.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, allDirectors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Chairmans letter of engagement allows for six months notice.
Appointmentofother Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either party with three months notice.
Director Date appointed to Board End date of current letter of appointment Nicholas Ferguson 26 January 2016 25 January 2019 Tim Freshwater 1 January 2012 31 December 2017 Liz Hewitt 25 June 2014 24 June 2017 Charles McVeigh 1 August 2000 1 August 2017 Rupert Robson 23 June 2015 22 June 2018 Shareholder votes on remuneration matters The table below shows the voting outcomes for the 2015 Annual Remuneration Report at the AGM held on 11 May 2016 and on 12 May 2014 in respect of the Directors remuneration policy.
Number of Number Number votes For and % of votes of votes % of votes Total number of of votes discretionary cast Against cast votes cast Withheld 2015 Annual Directors Remuneration Report 2016 AGM 102,054,526 99.07% 960,356 0.93% 103,014,882 233,227 Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM 91,230,892 99.68% 290,799 0.32% 91,521,691 3,672,289 A vote withheld is not avote in law.
Savills plc 80 Report and Accounts 2016
