Governance Remuneration report We pay for performance in a transparent and simple way, aligned clearly to client and shareholder interests.
to believe in our current approach, where the remuneration policy for our executive Directors is aligned with that for other employees.
Remuneration is clearly aligned to the performance of the Group and the value delivered for our clients and shareholders.
Long-term thinking is core to Schroders, as our success depends on helping our clients meet their long-term financial goals.
Our philosophy is to reward value creation and recognise appropriately employees who do the right thing, delivering good outcomes for our clients, fund investors and shareholders.
We compete for talent in a global marketplace, with employees in 27 countries and with 42 nationalities employed in our London headquarters.
Most of our key competitors are headquartered outside the UK, particularly in the US, and many are not publicly listed and are therefore subject to lower standards of transparency.
It is against this backdrop that we determine both our pay structures and levels of pay, to ensure that we are able to attract, motivate, reward and retain the best people.
On page 86 we set out the competitiveness of pay for the executive Directors.
We charge the Group Chief Executive with maintaining a total cost ratio Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 51 of 65%.
Within that we set a target range for remuneration, our largest cost item, capping overall spend within a total compensation ratio Lord Howard Chairman range of between 45% and 49% depending on market conditions.
Robin Buchanan We also look at a profit share ratio to manage variable remuneration Nichola Pease spend, to align remuneration further with the Groups financial performance.
These ratios are simple to understand and clear for both Another year of record net income and profits gives us confidence that shareholders and employees.
Our approach allows us to keep base our employees are motivated to perform above expectations for clients salaries relatively low, ensuring we are able to control our cost base and shareholders.
Since our current Directors remuneration policy was when times are challenging, and we believe maintaining this approach approved in 2014, over 96% of shareholder votes cast have been in favour is important at a time when the asset management industry is of our remuneration report each year.
Over that period, retention of high undergoing significant change.
The salaries of our executive Directors performing employees has averaged 95%.
We believe this policy of are among the lowest in the FTSE-100 and we have only increased them aligning employee pay with the interests of clients and shareholders while twice in the last ten years.
Benefits and retirement savings for the keeping total pay levels competitive with our predominantly international executive Directors are also low compared to the FTSE-100, though competitors meets our stakeholders needs.
for most employees the benefits we offer are competitive when compared to market norms.
As we ask shareholders to approve a new policy at the 2017 AGM, the success of our current approach might suggest limited policy We believe in a discretionary approach to assessing performance and change.
However, we recognise that much has changed in the past determining annual bonus awards, as opposed to formulaic incentives.
We have revisited our remuneration philosophy, reviewed For the executive Directors, this includes taking a balanced approach our remuneration strategy from the top down and listened to views to growing the business profitably and sustainably, encouraging the from shareholders, the government and regulators.
The resulting longevity of client relationships while retaining and developing our changes to our Directors remuneration policy are outlined opposite.
talented people who are key to organisational stability and long-term We have also managed significant internal change the transition to success.
Formulaic pay can often drive the wrong behaviours and the a new Group Chief Executive and changes in leadership in Distribution.
wrong long-term outcomes for clients and shareholders.
We look to It is important at this time to provide stability for our employees.
reward appropriately all employees who adhere to the firms values excellence, innovation, teamwork, passion and integrity and who We also recognise the significant challenges that our industry faces, as demonstrate the behaviours we expect in a client-centric culture.
outlined in our Group Chief Executives statement on pages 10 and 11.
Our discretionary approach also ensures we assess performance on In light of this, it is right to be prudent on pay levels.
Although profits management of risks and adherence to compliance controls page 95. are up, we have maintained the total compensation ratio at 44%, below our target range of 45% to 49%, and higher fixed pay costs mean the Our remuneration philosophy supports our long-term approach bonus pool is down on last year.
by deferring a significant part of annual variable remuneration into fund and share awards, which provides clear alignment with the Our remuneration philosophy long-term interests of clients and shareholders, through awards under In 2016, the Committee carried out a fundamental review of our the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and by requiring executives to remuneration philosophy and the resulting pay structures.
We continue acquire and maintain significant shareholdings in the Group.
68 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Structure of the remuneration report Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee pages 68 and 69 At a glance summary pages 70 and 71 Governance pages 72 and 73 Remuneration principles page 74 Directors remuneration policy pages 75 to 81 Annual report on remuneration pages 82 to 96 Directors remuneration policy changes Executive on 4 April 2016.
He succeeded Michael Dobson, who received While maintaining our overall remuneration philosophy, we propose a bonus of 7.9 million for 2015.
Peter has made an excellent start in his some important changes to our Directors remuneration policy to new role, ensuring a smooth transition in the senior leadership of the strengthen the alignment of executive pay to the financial performance Group and maintaining the strong financial performance of the business of the Group and the interests of clients and shareholders, including: in volatile market conditions.
Investment performance is a key measure of success and we remain significantly ahead of target, with 74% of assets Element of pay Changes proposed for three years from the 2017 AGM outperforming over three years and 85% over five years.
Talent retention Annual Increasing the proportion of executive Directors through this period of transition has been well-managed and good incentive annual bonus awards that is deferred from progress has been made against target growth opportunities, including approximately 50% to approximately 60% in the development of our North American business.
The Group Chief Introducing greater disclosure of executive Directors targets and performance in determining variable pay Executives pay is 33 times the employee mean and 60 times the Applying deferral into ECP to any payment to a employee median, as shown on page 87. departing Director for their contribution in their final year, as with annual bonus awards The Committee believes the LTIP performance conditions are highly demanding.
In March 2017, we expect LTIP awards granted in 2013 LTIP Introducing a discretionary override for LTIP vesting, to vest at 50%, as the earnings per share target will not be met.
This so the Remuneration Committee may reduce the is despite the strong performance of the Group, generating earnings per extent to which awards vest if the Group has suffered share growth of 76% over the four-year performance period.
The net new a material failure of risk management or if the outcome from the performance conditions does business target was significantly exceeded, with a total of 46.8 billion not appropriately reflect underlying performance of net new business over the performance period see page 90.
Introducing a 12-month holding period following vesting, during which awards cannot be exercised Departing executives and malus terms continue to apply The Committee awarded Michael Dobson an annual bonus award of 2.0 million, reflecting his performance as Chief Executive for Personal Increasing the Group Chief Executives shareholding shareholding requirement from 300% of salary to 500% of salary part of 2016 and his work in ensuring a smooth transition of his policy Requiring executive Directors on stepping down to responsibilities.
Michael waived his contractual rights to 7.5 million maintain a level of shareholding for two years on stepping down as Chief Executive.
He is not eligible for a bonus in respect of his role as Chairman.
The Committee awarded We face continued regulatory uncertainty, which could affect our future Massimo Tosato an annual bonus award of 1.3 million, reflecting his contribution during 2016, and a payment of 3.0 million in settlement remuneration approach.
If policy changes are required then we will consult with shareholders at that time.
of his rights on stepping down, which were equal to one years salary plus bonus or 4.7 million, from his 2001 employment contract.
These Shareholder engagement payments to Michael and Massimo were made in cash in February 2017 and clawback terms apply.
At last years AGM, shareholders showed strong support for our Remuneration report, with 96% of votes cast in favour.
Each year, On 1 March 2017, Philip Mallinckrodt relinquished his executive the Committee reviews how shareholders voted on remuneration, together with any feedback received.
Concerns raised by a small responsibilities.
He continues on the Board as a non-executive Director.
Page 96 outlines the approach the Committee has taken to his minority of shareholders and the policy changes proposed are on page 78.
I met with a number of our shareholders recently to discuss our remuneration in light of this.
remuneration philosophy and the policy changes we propose to make.
Diversity As one of the first signatories of the Women in Finance Charter in 2016 performance and remuneration outcomes Schroders has again delivered record results in 2016 and it is in this the UK, we are committed to increasing the representation of women within senior management.
We targeted 30% representation by 2019. context that the remuneration of all employees, including the executive Directors, has been determined.
Profit before tax and exceptional Having made significant progress, moving from 25% at the end of 2015 to 29% this year, we have increased our target to 33%.
This year we items was up 6% to 644.7 million.
The Board has recommended a 7% increase in the total dividend per share for the year.
The Board have disclosed gender pay gap data for the first time, on page 84, in advance of UK disclosure rules coming into effect in April 2017.
This approved a total compensation ratio of 44%, unchanged from 2015, and a profit share ratio of 36% 2015: 37%.
shows a gap of 31% to 33% for salary and other cash allowances per hour and 59% to 66% for bonus, though these figures may be Information on the annual bonus awards for the executive Directors is misleading.
Our analysis of comparable roles shows that we reward men and women fairly for similar work and that the gap reflects the outlined on pages 87 to 89.
Other than the Group Chief Executive, the year-on-year change in variable pay for the executive Directors varies lower representation of women at senior levels within the organisation.
from a decrease of 68% to an increase of 2%, compared to a decrease in the average annual bonus award across our employees of 11%.
We have awarded Peter Harrison a bonus of 5.5 million, reflecting Lord Howard of Penrith Chairman of the Remuneration Committee his increased responsibilities following his appointment as Group Chief Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Governance Remuneration report At a glance 1.
How we performed The charts below provide an overview of Schroders performance.
Pages 14 and 15 provide information on how our objectives are aligned with those of our clients and pages 16 and 17 give more information on our key performance indicators.
Pages 87 to 90 outline the basis for determining annual bonus awards for the executive Directors and the vesting of LTIP awards granted in March 2013.
Performance of Schroders shares against the FTSE-100 Index and the relative spend on pay The left-hand chart below compares the performance of Schroders shares with that of the FTSE-100 over eight years to 31 December 2016.
Over this period the index has returned 117%, compared to a 334% return on Schroders ordinary shares.
The right-hand chart shows how net income has been utilised over the same period, comparing remuneration costs before exceptional items and shareholder distributions to taxes arising and earnings retained.
Distributions to shareholders in respect of 2016 formed a similar proportion of the total as for 2015.
Net income 2016: 1,793 million up 120% since 2009 500 1,800 23% 1,500 400 18% 1,200 20% 300 900 11% 25% 200 18% 600 28% 14% 10% 100 300 9% 14% 10% 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Schroders ordinary shares Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Schroders non-voting ordinary shares Other operating expenses Corporate tax and social security FTSE-100 Index Retained earnings Interim and final dividend Other key factors in assessing the performance of the Group see pages 87 to 89 The following key performance indicators were amongst those that formed part of the Committees determination of the executive Directors pay.
Three-year investment performance Net new business Assets under management and administration % bn bn 2015 72 2015 13.0 2015 313.5 74 1.1 397.1 2016 2016 2016 Target 60% Target: positive NNB budgeted NNB Target: AUMA growth in excess of market growth Total cost ratio Talent retention Basic earnings per share % % pence per share 2015 63 2015 94 2015 176.9 64 95 186.3 2016 2016 2016 Target 65% Target 90% Target: grow consistently recognising potential impact of market volatility Determining the vesting of LTIP awards granted in March 2013 see page 90 LTIP awards granted in March 2013 are expected to vest on 2 March 2017, based on two metrics as set out below.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Vesting % of award 59.6% 20% 20% Growth in composite index Earnings per share EPS Target 75.6% Schroders EPS growth range 0% bn 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Target Net new range business NNB 46.8bn Schroders cumulative NNB 50% Total vested in relation to 20132016 performance 50% Before exceptional items.
70 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 millions Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities 2.
Executive Directors remuneration and shareholdings The left-hand chart below compares the single total remuneration figures for 2016 and 2015 for each executive Director role.
The right-hand chart compares each executive Directors shareholdings with that required under the personal shareholding policy.
Value of shareholding vs shareholding policy Executive Director Single total remuneration gure 000 % of salary 1 Group Chief Executive 2016 8% 44% 22% 22% 4% X% 6,293 Policy 300 Peter Harrison 2015 6% 45% 22% 22% 5% 8,905 Actual Peter Harrison 553 2015: Michael Dobson Chief Financial Ocer 2016 15% 43% 21% 21% 2,878 Policy 300 Richard Keers 16% 44% 20%20% 2015 2,828 Actual 419 Group Head of Private 2016 19% 40% 18% 18% 5% 2,307 Policy 300 Assets and Wealth 17% 40% 18%18% 7% 2015 2,525 Actual 1,934 Management 2 Philip Mallinckrodt Executive Vice Chairman 2016 27% 66% 7% X% X% 1,959 Policy 300 3 Massimo Tosato 2015 10% 45% 21% 21% 3% 4,995 Actual 508 4 Fixed Bonus cash Deferred bonus share awards Deferred bonus fund awards LTIP vesting 1 Peter Harrison was appointed Group Chief Executive on 4 April 2016.
The bar representing 2016 remuneration in the left-hand chart above reects his full-year remuneration in respect of 2016, while the bar representing 2015 remuneration reects his predecessor Michael Dobsons remuneration as Chief Executive that year.
2 Philip Mallinckrodts shareholding in the right-hand chart above is his holding derived from employment.
It does not include his other share interests, see page 95.
3 Massimo Tosatos shareholding in the right-hand chart above is his holdings as at 31 December 2016, the final day of his employment with Schroders.
4 LTIP vesting represents the estimated value at vesting from awards granted under the LTIP on 27 March 2013, which are expected to vest on 2 March 2017 based on performance against the performance conditions over the four financial years ended 31 December 2016.
For more information on the single total remuneration figures see pages 85 to 90.
For more information on the personal shareholding policy see page 93.
Executive Directors remuneration policy overview Components of executive Directors remuneration: Component New policy overview Proposed policy changes for approval at the 2017 AGM Base salary Group Chief Executive: 500,000 No policy changes are proposed.
Other executive Directors: 375,000 These rates were last increased on 1 March 2014.
Benefits and Executive Directors receive benefits on the same basis as other No policy changes are proposed.
Retirement Executive Directors may participate in UK pension No policy changes are proposed.
benefits arrangements or receive cash in lieu of pension on the same basis as other employees, 16% of base salary up to a maximum pensionable salary of 250,000, plus a match on employee contributions up to a further 2% of pensionable salary.
Annual bonus Awarded to incentivise the achievement of business priorities In the proposed new policy, the proportion of annual bonus awards award for the financial year, to align pay with performance and to executive Directors that is deferred is increased from approximately promote the long-term success of the Company.
Also, any future payment to a departing 60% is normally deferred to align Directors interests with those Director in respect of their contribution in their final year will be of clients and shareholders.
subject to the same deferral as applies to annual bonus awards.
LTIP To incentivise long-term performance and the achievement In the proposed new policy, a 12-month holding period applies from of strategic priorities to ensure the sustainable growth of the the date of vesting for future LTIP awards, during which they cannot Group.
The performance hurdles are highly demanding, based be exercised and malus conditions continue to apply.
The Committee on earnings per share and net new business performance over will be able to reduce the extent to which awards vest if the Group has a four-year period.
suffered a material failure of risk management or if the Committee considers that the outcome from the performance conditions does not appropriately reflect underlying performance.
Personal To align their interests with those of shareholders, the executive The proposal is to increase the shareholding requirement for the shareholding Directors are required to acquire and retain a holding of Group Chief Executive from 300% to 500% of salary, to create further policy Schroders shares or rights to shares equivalent to 300% alignment with shareholder interests.
It is also proposed to require of base salary, or 500% of base salary for the Group Chief executive Directors on stepping down to maintain a level of Executive.
On stepping down as an executive Director, half shareholding for two years, to reflect better the period in which that level of shareholding must be maintained for two years.
decisions made while serving as a Director might impact the Group.
For more information on the policy see pages 75 to 81.
For more information on implementation of the policy during 2017 see page 96.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Governance Remuneration report Governance Responsibilities of the Committee All members of the Committee are independent non-executive The responsibilities of the Committee include: Directors.
Biographical details and the experience of Committee Reviewing the Groups remuneration strategy and recommending members are set out on pages 46 and 47. the Directors remuneration policy to the Board Determining the remuneration of executive Directors within At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, Michael Dobson attended the policy approved by shareholders six meetings, two as Chief Executive and four as Chairman.
Following Determining the remuneration of the Company Secretary, reviewing his appointment as Group Chief Executive, Peter Harrison attended the remuneration of the Heads of Compliance, Risk, Internal Audit three meetings.
The Chief Financial Officer attended four meetings and the General Counsel, monitoring the level and structure of and Bruno Schroder attended six.
No Director or employee was remuneration for other senior employees and material risk takers present during discussions relating to their own remuneration.
and overseeing remuneration more broadly across the Group Recommending to the Board the annual spend on fixed and The Group Head of Risk, the General Counsel and the Global Head variable remuneration of Compliance also advised the Committee on matters that could Reviewing the design and operation of share-based remuneration influence remuneration decisions and attended meetings if required.
and other deferred remuneration plans The Global Head of Human Resources and the Head of Compensation Overseeing any major change in the employee benefits structure and Benefits attended meetings to provide advice and support the throughout the Group Committee with secretarial services.
Reviewing the remuneration disclosures required and ensuring compliance with those requirements Key areas of focus during the year Receiving and considering feedback from shareholders The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee and representative shareholder bodies.
considered at each of its meetings during 2016.
Remuneration packages for new hires or severance arrangements for roles The Committee carried out a fundamental review of its terms of subject to the Committees oversight were reviewed at each reference during 2016.
The Board approved amendments clarifying the meeting as required.
In addition, the Board as a whole reviewed Committees responsibilities to align better with applicable regulations the remuneration strategy in July.
The terms of reference are available on our website.
Meeting date Key issues considered January Succession plans for executive Directors Forecast vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2012 Compensation review 2015 Performance conditions for LTIP awards to be granted in 2016 Remuneration disclosures Regulatory developments pertaining to remuneration February Succession plans for executive Directors Performance conditions for LTIP awards to be granted in 2016 May Shareholder and voting agency feedback on remuneration Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference Advisers to the Committee Regulatory developments pertaining to remuneration Alignment of remuneration to client and shareholder interests July Board review of remuneration strategy Potential impact of a future Brexit on remuneration regulations Board meeting Directors remuneration policy October Directors remuneration policy Remuneration disclosures Approval of proposed Equity Incentive Plan awards Regulatory and corporate governance developments Compensation review 2016 Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference Material risk taker population November Directors remuneration policy Shareholder and market practice considerations December Directors remuneration policy Remuneration disclosures Compensation review 2016 Total compensation ratio target range Sustainability of earnings Remuneration benchmarking for key leadership roles Risk, legal and compliance matters Termination arrangements for Massimo Tosato Forecast vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2013 Regulatory and corporate governance developments 72 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Shareholder voting on remuneration At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved the Directors remuneration policy, to apply for three years from the date of the AGM.
At the 2016 AGM, shareholders approved the Remuneration report that was published in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The results of these votes are shown below: To approve the Directors remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM To approve the remuneration report at the 2016 AGM 4% 8% 2014 AGM voting 2016 AGM voting Votes for 165,335,404 Votes for 181,872,576 Votes against 14,014,099 Votes against 8,153,419 Votes withheld Votes withheld 1,658,194 2,925,090 92% 96% To approve the relevant remuneration report Votes for Votes against 2014 AGM 94% 6% 2015 AGM 97% 3% 2016 AGM 96% 4% External advisers The Committee appointed or received advice from the advisers shown in the table below.
Advisers were selected on the recommendation of the Global Head of Human Resources and the Head of Compensation and Benefits.
Fees paid for services to the Committee during Services provided Other services 2016 Appointed by to the Committee provided to the Group 000 15 McLagan International The Committee Information on market Information on market Inc McLagan conditions and competitive conditions and competitive rates of pay.
PwC The Company The Remuneration Committee did Advice to management on 109 not independently engage PwC to market practice and conditions provide any services.
However, advice for directors remuneration to management on market practice and and on compliance with conditions for directors remuneration and remuneration regulations.
compliance with remuneration regulations was discussed at Committee meetings.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from McLagan was independent and objective as it was factual and not judgemental.
McLagan is part of Aon Hewitt, which also provides advice and services to the Company in relation to pension administration, pension benefit valuations and pension actuarial advice.
McLagans fees were charged on the basis of a fixed fee for the preparation of reports setting out the information requested.
PwC is the Groups external auditor.
Any non-audit services provided by PwC are subject to review in accordance with arrangements for the provision of such services, as described in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 61.
The Committee did not independently engage PwC to provide any services but is satisfied that the advice received from PwC was independent and objective as it was factual and not judgemental.
PwCs fees for services provided to the Company were charged on the basis of time spent.
The increase in PwC fees reported, compared to the 8,000 reported for 2015, reflects the use of data and advice provided by PwC to support discussions during 2016 at the Remuneration Committee and the Board on the remuneration philosophy and Directors remuneration policy, as outlined in the table.
Evaluating the performance of the Committee The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The findings relating to the Committee were discussed with the Committee Chairman, with the Committee found to be thorough and effective.
Further information can be found in the Corporate governance report, on page 54.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Governance Remuneration report Remuneration principles The overall remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee has developed the remuneration policy with the following principles in mind: A proportion of higher-earning employees deferred remuneration is delivered as fund Aligned with awards, which are notional investments in funds managed by the Group, thereby aligning clients the interests of employees and clients.
This includes the executive Directors, other members of the GMC and other key employees such as senior fund managers.
A significant proportion of variable remuneration is delivered in the form of deferred awards over Schroders shares, thereby aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
Aligned with Executive Directors and other members of the GMC are required, over time, to acquire and shareholders retain a significant holding of Schroders shares or rights to shares.
If shareholders approve the proposed new Directors remuneration policy then executive Directors on stepping down will be required to maintain a level of shareholding for two years.
Total variable remuneration is managed as a percentage of pre-bonus profit before tax Aligned with and exceptional items, the profit share ratio.
The total spend on remuneration is managed financial as a percentage of net income, the total compensation ratio.
These ratios are determined performance by the Committee and recommended to the Board.
This approach aligns remuneration with financial performance.
Employees receive a competitive remuneration package, which is reviewed annually and Competitive benchmarked by reference to the external market.
This allows us to attract and retain the best talent, who know that good performance will be rewarded.
Designed to Deferred variable remuneration does not give rise to any immediate entitlement.
Awards encourage normally require the participant to be employed continuously by the Group until at least retention the third anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.
74 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors remuneration policy The current Directors remuneration policy can be found on pages 68 to 73 of our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, which is available on our website.
This was approved for three years at the 2014 AGM and therefore will expire this year.
The new Directors remuneration policy proposed by the Committee is set out on pages 75 to 81.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the new policy at the 2017 AGM on 27 April 2017.
This policy will take effect for Directors from the date it is approved and is expected to apply for three years.
Remuneration policy for employees including the executive Directors The table below sets out the key components of the remuneration policy for employees and the policy that will apply to the executive Directors, subject to approval at the 2017 AGM, which is the same except where specified below.
The remuneration policy for non-executive Directors is set out on page 80.
Component, purpose and link to strategy Current operation for employees Application to executive Directors Base salary Base salary is paid in cash via payroll.
Base salaries We aim to pay executive Directors base salaries that are To help recruit, reward are reviewed annually.
The Group actively targets its competitive with other large international asset management and retain talent.
spend on salary increases at lower-paid employees, firms.
As a result, it is likely that salaries will be relatively low Reflects a market for whom fixed pay forms a larger proportion of total when compared to other listed financial services firms and competitive rate of pay remuneration.
For higher-paid employees base FTSE-100 companies.
Like other higher-paid employees, the taking account of the salaries are adjusted infrequently.
executive Directors base salaries are adjusted infrequently.
When employees role and salaries for executive Directors are increased, the percentage responsibilities, skills The financial situation of the Group and the increase will not normally exceed the average annualised increase and experience, and performance of the individual are taken into account across the wider workforce.
Larger increases may be awarded ongoing contribution.
when determining the appropriate level of base salary where Directors salaries have fallen significantly below increase each year, if any.
Benefits and Employee benefits vary between jurisdictions, Executive Directors receive benefits on the same basis as other UK allowances reflecting local market practice and statutory employees, which are relatively low by UK standards for executive To help recruit and requirements.
Cash allowances are sometimes paid, Directors.
Directors are covered by the Groups Directors and retain talent.
Reflects typically after a benefit has been phased out and cash Officers Liability Insurance.
Executive Directors may also benefit local market practice in lieu offered in exchange.
For employees in the UK, from private use of a driver.
The cost of providing benefits varies and aims to support a cash allowance is provided to fund benefit options according to a range of factors, such as insurance premium rates, employee health under a flexible benefits plan.
Available benefits include so no formal maximum exists.
private healthcare, life assurance, accidental death, injury or sickness insurances and tax-efficient charitable Additional benefits may be provided if required, for example donations which are matched by the Company see to support international relocation.
SIP UK employees are eligible to participate in the Share Executive Directors may participate in the SIP on the same basis To help increase the Incentive Plan SIP.
Participating employees use their as other UK employees.
The value of any SIP matching shares number of employee own funds to acquire Schroders shares partnership awarded during the year is included within the value reported for shareholders and shares and in return receive awards of shares from benefits and allowances.
increase their Schroders matching shares of up to 100 per month participation as based on the market value of the shares.
for maximum tax benefits these shares must be left Provides potential in the SIP for five years.
Performance conditions UK tax benefits.
Participants are free to withdraw their Partnership Shares at any time but forfeit the corresponding Matching Shares if they do so or cease to be in employment within one year of acquiring the relevant Partnership Shares, except in certain circumstances as set out in the rules of the SIP.
77% of UK employees participated in the plan as at 31 December 2016 2015: 78%.
Retirement benefits Retirement benefits vary between jurisdictions Executive Directors may participate in pension arrangements, To help recruit and in a similar way to benefits and allowances.
Base or receive cash in lieu of pension, on the same basis as retain talent.
Reflects salary is generally the only pensionable element of other employees.
In and enables and the UK, base salary up to a maximum of 250,000 is encourages provision pensionable.
The Groups contributions are currently for retirement.
16% of pensionable salary, plus a contribution to match employee contributions up to a further 2% of salary.
Employees in the UK have flexibility and choice over the balance between employer pension contributions and cash in lieu, with options to take as cash some or all of the amount the Company would otherwise contribute to the pension plan.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Fixed pay Governance Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Component, purpose and link to strategy Current operation for employees Application to executive Directors Annual bonus award Permanent employees are eligible to be considered Annual bonus awards operate the same way for the executive To motivate for an annual bonus award.
Awards in respect of each Directors as for other employees except that the proportion employees to financial year are discretionary and non-pensionable.
Where a LTIP award has been granted achieve financial, The Groups total spend on remuneration is managed via during the year, the deferral in respect of that year is reduced non-financial and the total compensation ratio target and the profit share by 25% of the grant value of the LTIP award.
personal objectives ratio see page 74.
Individual awards are not capped.
for the financial year, In setting executive Directors annual bonus awards, the which are consistent The amount if any that eligible employees are awarded Committee assesses the overall performance of the business with the Groups is determined based on a number of financial and and of each individual and applies its judgement to determine an strategy.
Helps non-financial factors, including individual performance award, taking account of the recommendation of the Chairman reward talent for objectives, that may vary from year to year to ensure in respect of the Group Chief Executive and of the Group Chief their individual alignment with the Groups strategic goals.
Executive in respect of the other executive Directors.
For no prescribed weighting of particular metrics but financial executive Directors, Bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash, performance factors are central to the decision.
Factors considered awards reflect annual normally payable in February following the end of include the trend in profit for the year: investment performance: performance along the financial year, and deferrals.
For most employees, the management of risks facing the Group: talent retention and with performance over any annual bonus award worth up to 52,000 will succession planning: progress on diversity and inclusion strategy: a longer timeframe for be payable in cash.
Larger awards are subject to a cost control: the Companys reputation: business performance some metrics.
graduated level of deferral, up to 50%.
For members of in each Directors area of responsibility: and Schroders share the GMC, 50% of any annual bonus award is deferred.
Targeted performance is in line with the Groups strategic goals and the budget for the year.
In addition, performance against the annual objectives of each Director is taken into account.
These metrics were chosen as they are aligned with the corporate strategy and reflect the areas on which the executive Directors should focus.
ECP Equity Compensation Plan ECP awards are granted to executive Directors on the same basis as those granted to other The Groups main employees, albeit with a larger proportion of any annual bonus award deferred.
deferral arrangement for annual bonus Deferral of annual bonus awards is generally delivered as a combination of ECP fund awards, which are conditional rights to awards.
Aligns receive a cash sum based on the value of a notional investment in a range of Schroders funds, and ECP share awards, which the interests of are conditional rights to acquire shares in the Company at nil cost.
In 2016, deferrals were generally delivered equally employees with those between ECP fund awards and ECP share awards, subject to a minimum fund award of 10,000. of shareholders and clients, provides an For ECP share awards, additional shares equivalent to dividends paid accrue until the award is exercised.
At the Companys incentive for the discretion, ECP share awards may be settled in cash but this would only be used in exceptional circumstances, for instance employee to stay at in a jurisdiction where settlement in shares would create an adverse outcome for the Group or award holder.
The general Schroders and makes application of the ECP is subject to variation in some locations to reflect local restrictions, regulation and practice.
Awards it more expensive can be adjusted to take account of legal, tax and regulatory changes, a change in the Groups capital or following change for competitors to of control, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers appropriate.
May be Awards relate to past performance and so no further performance conditions apply.
To provide an incentive to stay used to compensate at Schroders, ECP awards do not give rise to any immediate entitlement and normally require the participant to be new recruits who employed continuously by the Group until the third anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.
If a participant resigns forfeit remuneration before the third anniversary of grant, awards are normally subject to forfeiture asfollows: from their previous Years since grant date less than 1 1 to 2 2 to 3 employer to join % lost 100% 66.7% 33.3% Schroders.
An award holder who leaves the Group may be entitled to retain more of their awards in certain circumstances, such as death, ill health or injury, or otherwise at the Committees discretion.
When ECP awards are used as part of recruitment, the Committee can set a different vesting period to better align with the awards that the recruit is forfeiting.
EIP Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Equity Incentive Plan EIP awards.
To reward exceptional performance and The EIP is an additional deferred remuneration plan, used to reward exceptional performance and potential.
employee interests with shareholders or EIP awards do not give rise to any immediate entitlement and require the participant to be employed continuously by clients, provides an the Group until the fifth anniversary of grant.
Malus and clawback terms apply, in a similar way to awards under the ECP.
incentive to stay at If a participant resigns before the fifth anniversary of grant, awards are normally forfeited in full.
EIP share awards are Schroders and makes conditional rights to acquire shares in the Company at nil cost.
Additional shares equivalent to the dividends paid accrue it more expensive for until the award is exercised.
EIP fund awards are conditional rights to receive a cash sum based on the value of a notional competitors to recruit investment in a range of Schroders funds.
EIP awards may also be used as part of recruitment, in a similar way to ECP.
76 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pay for performance EIP Pay for performance annual bonus award and ECP Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Component, purpose and link to strategy Current operation for employees Application to executive Directors LTIP Only executive Directors receive awards under the LTIP currently.
To incentivise executive Directors Executive Directors typically receive an LTIP award in March each year.
LTIP awards are conditional rights to acquire shares to deliver long-term in the Company at nil cost.
Annual LTIPawards can be up to four times base salary for any individual and have afour-year performance and performance period.
Awards granted to executive Directors from 2018 will be subject to a 12-month holding period from the achievement when they vest, during which they cannot be exercised, after which they may then be exercised within a 12-month period.
of strategic priorities, while maximising LTIP awards do not give rise to any immediate entitlement and normally require the participant to be employed alignment with continuously by the Group until the awards may be exercised.
Following the end of the four-year performance period, the shareholder interests.
Committee will determine the extent to which the performance conditions have been achieved and the extent to which the awards may beexercised.
A participant who leaves the Group may still receive a proportion of their awards in certain circumstances, such as death, ill health or injury, or otherwise at the Committees discretion.
In these circumstances, the award vests at the end of the performance period in the normal way, subject to meeting the performance conditions, with the proportion that vests adjusted downwards for the proportion of the performance period worked.
Vesting may be accelerated if the participant dies, with the proportion that vests determined by estimating the extent to which the performance conditions will be met.
At the Companys discretion, LTIP awards may be settled in cash but this discretion would only be exercised in exceptional circumstances, for instance in a jurisdiction where settlement in shares would create an adverse outcome for the Group or award holder.
The Committee determines the performance conditions for each award and uses its judgement to set challenging criteria that are consistent with the Groups strategy.
Since the LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2010, the vesting of awards has been subject to EPS and NNB performance conditions.
EPS growth was chosen as a measure of profitability and is measured relative to a composite index that the Committee believes to be a reasonable proxy for the market movement of Schroders AUM.
As a result, earnings increases or decreases purely as a result of movements in financial markets are excluded from the measurement of performance.
Each year that this EPS performance condition is used, the balance of Schroders AUM at the previous year end has been reviewed to determine the weighting of the underlying indices that make up the composite index for new awards.
If the growth of adjusted EPS in the fourth year compared with that in the year prior to grant exceeds the growth in the composite index over the same period by 20% then 12.5% of the award vests, rising on a straight-line basis to 50% vesting for comparative growth of 40% or more.
Comparative growth of 20% or less is not rewarded.
Targets were set at 20% to 40% as a range of outperformance of the composite index that is very stretching.
NNB, being gross sales less gross redemptions, was chosen as a measure of the Groups organic growth.
If cumulative NNB over the four-year performance period is 15 billion then 12.5% of the award vests, rising on a straight-line basis to 50% vesting for NNB of 25 billion or more.
NNB of less than 15 billion is not rewarded.
Targets were set by reference to historical actual performance, aiming to provide targets that are stretching but not unrealistic.
For LTIP awards made from 2018 onwards, when determining vesting the Committee has the discretion to reduce the extent to which awards vest if the Group has suffered a material failure of risk management or if the Committee judges that the unadjusted outcome from the performance conditions does not reflect underlying performance.
Malus and Under malus terms, deferred remuneration awards Malus and clawback terms apply todeferred remuneration clawback terms granted under the ECP, EIP or LTIP may be reduced or granted to the executive Directors on the same basis as for other To allow variable lapsed at the Committees discretion in the event of a employees.
In addition, executive Directors contracts extend remuneration awards material misstatement of the Groups financial results clawback terms to the cashelement of any annual bonus awards.
to be risk adjusted in or individual misconduct.
Under clawback terms, certain circumstances.
amounts paid or released from such awards may Malus terms apply to ECP awards granted since May 2011, to EIP be recovered for a period of 12 months from the awards granted since July 2013 and to LTIP awards granted at any date of payment or release in the event of individual time.
Clawback applies to ECP, EIP and LTIP awards granted since misconduct, at the Committees discretion.
Personal shareholding Members of the GMC are required, over time, to acquire The personal shareholding policy for the Group Chief Executive policy and retain a holding of Schroders shares or rights to requires the acquisition and retention of Schroders shares To align the interests of sharesequivalent to 300% of base salary.
Each GMC or rights to shares equivalent to 500% of base salary.
For the senior management with member undertakes not to sell any Schroders shares other executive Directors the requirement is 300% of base salary.
until their share ownership target has been reached and to ensure that the required shareholding is maintained On stepping down as an executive Director, half the level of when selling or transferring shares, except that shares shareholding required while an executive Director must be may be sold to satisfy tax and social security liabilities maintained for two years, or the actual level of shareholding arising when an award vests or is exercised.
For these on stepping down if lower.
purposes, rights to shares includes the estimated after-tax value of ECP and EIP share awards but does not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under the LTIP as these are subject to performance conditions.
Shareholder dilution Deferred remuneration plans involving Schroders shares are non-dilutive to shareholders, as shares to satisfy awards are purchased in the market.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Pay for performance LTIP Governance Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued In approving the application of this policy to the executive Directors, authority is given for the Group to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors prior to the approval and implementation of this policy such as payment of pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards, provided that such commitments complied with any applicable remuneration policy in effect at the time they were given.
Any remuneration commitment made prior to an individual becoming a Director and not in anticipation of their appointment to the Board may be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the Directors remuneration policy in place at the time it is fulfilled.
New policy for 2017 and considerations when setting policy In recommending the Directors remuneration policy to the Board As far as possible, the remuneration policy for executive Directors and to shareholders, the Committee aims to ensure that policies and is consistent with that applied for other employees, as shown in the practices are consistent with the principles outlined on page 74, tables on pages 75 to 77.
Employees are not consulted on the Directors while supporting effective risk management so as not to encourage remuneration policy but management engage with employees on a excessive or inappropriate risk-taking.
wide range of other relevant issues, including in the UK via an Employee Forum that provides an additional channel for representing and During 2016, the Committee and the Board discussed possible changes understanding employee views.
in remuneration philosophy and approach, including aligning more closely with FTSE-100 norms.
The simplicity of the current approach The Groups remuneration policies and practices take account of has many benefits, including keeping the fixed cost base of the Group legislation, regulation, corporate governance standards, best practice relatively low.
The Board concluded that overall it remains appropriate and guidance issued by regulators, shareholders and shareholder but that changes to the Directors remuneration policy should be representative bodies.
Reward policies comply with the relevant made to develop further the alignment of executive pay to the financial provisions of the FCAs Remuneration Codes, the Remuneration performance of the Group and the interests of clients and shareholders.
Part of the PRA Rulebook and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each year the Committee works to ensure that variable remuneration Feedback received from shareholders on Directors remuneration was reflects performance and strikes the appropriate balance between discussed by the Committee and the Board and taken into account managing current and future risk and reward.
The Committee reviews when considering the new policy.
Overall, 96% of shareholder votes Directors remuneration in the context of remuneration across the received at the 2016 AGM were cast in favour of the Annual report on Group, including financial performance, the total compensation ratio, remuneration and 92% of votes received at the 2014 AGM were cast in the profit share ratio and the allocation of variable remuneration favour of the current Directors remuneration policy.
The table below between employees.
summarises concerns raised by a small minority of shareholders during 2016 and the policy changes proposed as a result, while the table on page 69 summarises the policy changes proposed.
Shareholder comments Committees considerations during 2016 Total remuneration for The Group aims to pay employees including the executive Directors competitive levels of total remuneration, which are the executive Directors reviewed annually and benchmarked by reference to the external market.
Pay is driven by the performance of the Group is too high.
Benchmarking is used to establish a frame of reference for what competitors are paying, rather than as a start point or primary factor when remuneration decisions are made.
Information on the competitive positioning of executive Directors remuneration is on page 86.
We have also disclosed the ratio of the Group Chief Executives remuneration to that of other employees across the Group, on page 87.
A maximum annual During 2016 the Committee again revisited the merits of capping annual bonus awards at an individual level.
We continue bonus award should be to believe that not setting a cap for individual annual bonus awards is in the best interests of shareholders.
It allows us to specified for each attract, retain and motivate the best talent, who know that good performance and behaviour in line with our values will be executive Director.
It also allows us to keep base salaries relatively low, controlling the fixed cost base when times are challenging.
Remuneration is too Under the new Directors remuneration policy, the proposal is to increase the proportion of any annual bonus awards short-term.
Bonus for executive Directors that is deferred from approximately 50% to approximately 60%.
LTIP grant levels have varied deferral should be higher historically and the existing approach continues to be appropriate, using LTIP awards alongside significant deferral and LTIP awards should of annual bonus awards into share and fund awards.
Although the LTIP incentivises long-term performance and the make up more of total achievement of strategic priorities it also creates challenges in setting meaningful longer-term targets that are aligned remuneration.
with the interests of shareholders and clients and remain so as the economy and business cycles evolve.
The LTIP performance The Committee recognises that the composite index used for EPS performance measurement is complex but considers that metrics are too complex.
the benefits, in excluding earnings increases or decreases purely as a result of movements in financial markets, justify the continuation of this approach.
LTIP performance and Under the new Directors remuneration policy, LTIP awards may not be exercised in the first year following vesting, which holding periods should alongside the four-year performance period will align the LTIP with this guidance.
total at least five years.
78 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities The Committee does not set fixed ratios for Directors pay relative to This year the Committee has introduced additional disclosures, aiming other employees as it believes this would restrict flexibility in aligning to increase transparency and provide more insight into the decisions reward and performance appropriately.
However, the Committee does the Committee has made and the rationale behind those decisions, consider this when setting the level of annual bonus award payable both on the remuneration of the executive Directors and more to the Group Chief Executive, as described on pages 87 to 89. broadly across the Group.
The ratios of the Group Chief Executives remuneration to the average for members of the GMC and the average for employees as a whole are shown on page 87.
Remuneration policy illustrations These scenario charts show, for each of the executive Director roles, Group Chief Executive 000 the relative split of fixed elements of remuneration, annual bonus Fixed 557 awards and LTIP awards, in accordance with the proposed new 8-year lowest 19% 35% 23% 23% 2,867 Directors remuneration policy.
The lowest, average and highest 8-year average 9% 36% 25% 25% 5% 6,354 remuneration over the eight years ended 31 December 2016 has 8-year highest 5% 36% 26% 26% 7% 9,074 been used as an indication of the earnings potential for each role.
Over the same period, profit before tax and exceptional items has ranged from 137.5 million to 644.7 million.
Future remuneration Chief Financial Officer 000 will be determined based on performance, as described elsewhere Fixed 428 in this report.
8-year lowest 31% 31% 19% 19% 1,377 8-year average 16% 32% 22% 22% 8% 2,519 Fixed Bonus cash Deferred bonus share awards 8-year highest 3,278 13% 31% 22% 22% 12% Deferred bonus fund awards LTIP The remuneration policy illustrations are based on actual fixed pay and annual bonus awards for each role over the eight years ended 31 December 2016 and the LTIP grants due to be granted in March 2017, which are set out on page 96, as follows: Fixed pay In these scenarios, fixed pay consists of base salary, benefits and allowances and retirement benefits.
Salary is the annual salary effective from 1 March 2017.
Benefits and allowances and retirement benefits are the anticipated annualised amounts from 1 March 2017.
Benefits and Base salary allowances Retirement Total fixed pay Role 000 000 benefits 000 000 Group Chief Executive 500 12 45 557 Chief Financial Officer 375 8 45 428 Lowest Average Highest Annual bonus award Being the lowest over the last eight Being the mean over the last eight Being the highest over the last eight years years of the sum of actual annual years of the sum of actual annual of the sum of actual annual bonus award bonus award and actual fixed pay bonus award and actual fixed pay and actual fixed pay each year, less the each year, less the fixed pay value each year, less the fixed pay value fixed pay value shown above.
In all three scenarios the annual bonus award is then subject to deferral into ECP fund and share awards, as outlined in the policy.
Being the face value of the award to Being the face value of award to be granted in March 2017, assuming be granted in March 2017, assuming 50% vesting.
The total remuneration values used in these scenarios for the Group Chief Executive reflect the remuneration awarded to Peter Harrison in respect of 2016 performance and to Michael Dobson in respect of performance in 20092015.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Governance Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy for the non-executive Directors The table below sets out the remuneration policy for non-executive Directors, who only receive fixed pay.
Component Operation Further information Fees Fees for the Chairman and other non-executive Directors are Fees are usually reviewed biennially.
The fees for the To reflect the skills, determined by the Board based on market information for non-executive Chairman were last reviewed in 2016, while experience and time comparable asset managers and other financial services fees for other non-executive Directors were last increased required to undertake groups and the constituent companies of the FTSE-100 Index.
The non-executive Directors current annual fees the role.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in decisions are shown on page 91. concerning their fees.
Benefits Non-executive Directors benefits are principally expenses Schroders does not pay retirement or post employment To enable the nonincurred in connection with the Groups business and reflect benefits to non-executive Directors.
They do not participate executive Directors to business needs.
Non-executive Directors may receive private in any of the Groups incentive arrangements.
use of a driver, car parking, meals, travel costs, tax on Schroder and Michael Dobson, as former executives, reimbursed benefits and, in the case of Bruno Schroder, have been in receipt of a pension since April 2007 and private health care and medical benefits.
Michael Dobson May 2012 respectively but have ceased accruing any receives life insurance benefits on the same terms as UK further entitlement.
employees and private health care and medical benefits for him and his family.
Recruitment of new Directors The table that follows summarises the remuneration policy when hiring new executive Directors.
Area Policy and operation Overall approach On appointment, the Committee aims to pay executive Directors remuneration that is appropriate in level and structure to attract, motivate, retain and reward Directors of the quality required to run the Group successfully, while avoiding paying more than is necessary.
Notice periods The Groups general policy is that each executive Director will have a rolling contract of employment with mutual notice periods of six months.
The Committee will consider the appropriate notice period when appointing any new executive Director.
If necessary to secure a new hire, a notice period of up to 12 months may be offered.
When recruiting new executive Directors, the Committees policy is that contracts will not contain any provision for compensation upon early termination.
Base salary Base salary is likely to be set at the same level as for other Directors, provided this is justifiable by reference to the candidates skills and experience, and taking into account remuneration in their most recent role, internal relativities and external market rates for roles with similar responsibilities.
Other fixed pay Benefits and allowances, retirement benefits and SIP participation will be provided on a similar basis as those available to other employees.
If the Group hires a new executive Director internationally then relocation support may be offered, on a similar basis as would be offered for other employees.
This may include support such as temporary accommodation, assistance finding new accommodation, transportation of household goods, school search for children moving internationally with the Director, tax advice and assistance preparing tax returns and a one-off cash allowance of up to 5,000 after tax.
Annual bonus award New executive Directors would be eligible to be considered for annual bonus awards in the same way as existing Directors.
The Group does not award guaranteed annual bonuses to executive Directors.
LTIP New executive Directors would be eligible to be considered for LTIP awards in the same way as existing Directors.
Legal fees The Group may pay reasonable fees for a new executive Director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their appointment.
Buy-out awards Where a candidate will forfeit remuneration as a result of leaving their current employer or joining Schroders, the Group may mitigate that loss by making one-off awards as a term of their appointment.
The Committee will take reasonable steps to ensure that any such awards are no more generous in either amount or terms than the remuneration being forfeited.
Any deferred remuneration will be subject to malus and clawback terms, in the same way as the award being replaced.
New non-executive Directors receive fees and benefits in line with the policy for other non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment.
They do not have service contracts.
When recruiting new non-executive Directors, the Boards policy is that letters of appointment will have a mutual notice period of six months.
80 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Each of the executive Directors has a rolling service contracts with a mutual notice period of six months.
Each of the non-executive Directors has a letter of appointment with a mutual notice period of six months, with the exception of Bruno Schroder who does not have a notice period.
Letters of appointment and service contracts are available for shareholders to view at the Companys registered office on business days between the hours of 9 a. m. and 5 p. m. and will be available at the AGM.
Policy on termination arrangements The following table sets out the remuneration policy on termination of a Director.
Area Policy and operation Overall approach When an executive Director leaves the Group, the Committee will review the circumstances and apply the treatment that it believes is appropriate.
Any payments will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Group and the employee, as well as the rules of any deferred remuneration plans and the Directors remuneration policy.
There are no contractual provisions for non-executive Directors to receive compensation upon termination.
Restrictive covenants Executive Directors service contracts include restrictions prohibiting the solicitation of clients and of Schroders employees for a period of 12 months after leaving employment, against which any period spent on notice or garden leave is offset.
Fixed pay Base salary, benefits and allowances and retirement benefits for executive Directors and fees for non-executive Directors will continue to be paid through the notice period.
The Committee also has the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice to executive Directors, normally based on salary only.
The treatment of shares acquired or awarded under the SIP will be in accordance with the plan rules.
Annual bonus Departing executive Directors do not have a contractual entitlement to an annual bonus award.
If a departing Director works awards during the notice period to achieve the Groups goals and supports an effective transition of responsibilities, the Committee may recommend to the Board that a discretionary payment be made to reflect the Directors contribution during the proportion of the financial year worked.
Any such payment will normally be subject to the same deferral arrangements as an annual bonus award, provided this is permitted under applicable law and regulations and except in the case of death, ill health or injury when payment may be fully in cash, at the Committees discretion.
Treatment of The treatment of awards under the ECP held by departing executive Directors will be in accordance with the plan rules.
In certain unvested ECP circumstances, those rules permit participants to retain some or all of their unvested awards following the termination of their awards employment, for example if the employee is leaving due to ill health or injury, or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee.
Any unvested ECP awards that are retained will vest on their normal vesting date except in the case of death, and ill health at the Committees discretion, when they vest immediately.
LTIP awards Departing executive Directors are not eligible to receive new LTIP awards.
Treatment of The treatment of awards under the LTIP and EIP will be in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
For the EIP this operates unvested LTIP on a similar basis as for the ECP.
For the LTIP this is similar except that in all cases any vesting remains subject to satisfaction and EIP awards of the associated performance conditions and will be reduced pro-rata for the proportion of the performance period worked.
Shareholding On stepping down, executive Directors are required to maintain for a period of two years a holding of shares or interests in requirements shares equal in number to half that which applied under the personal shareholding policy, or the number actually held on stepping down if lower.
Legal fees The Group may pay reasonable fees for a departing Director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their termination arrangements and nominal consideration for agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Companys rights following termination.
If the value of either of these exceeds 10,000 it will be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
Retirement gifts The Board may choose to make a retirement gift to a departing non-executive Director.
If the value of any such gift exceeds 10,000 it will be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
Settlement The Committee may agree additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith to discharge an existing legal agreements obligation, or as damages for breach of such obligation, or in settlement or compromise of any claim arising on termination of a Directors office or employment.
This may include the provision of outplacement support.
If the value of any such payment exceeds 10,000 it will be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
Other payments Other payments to former Directors that do not exceed 10,000 will not be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Pages 82 to 96 constitute the Annual report on remuneration.
This section also sets out the context for the Directors remuneration, Shareholders will have an advisory vote on this, together with pages including the main performance metrics that the Committee 68 to 73, at the AGM.
Where required, this information has been considered when setting the overall annual bonus pool and information audited by PwC.
on how annual bonus awards were allocated across the Group, along with details of the key performance criteria considered when This section sets out remuneration disclosures for 2016, across determining executive Directors annual bonus awards.
Returns to Schroders as a whole and specifically for the executive and nonshareholders over the last eight years are compared with the total executive Directors, and compares this to remuneration for 2015. remuneration of the Group Chief Executive over the same period.
The Directors remuneration was compliant with the policy approved Directors rights under fund and share awards and the share interests by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
of Directors and their connected persons are also detailed.
Aligning pay and performance across Schroders Group performance audited Aligning remuneration costs with financial performance Net income excluding exceptional items increased 8% in 2016 reflecting The total spend on remuneration is derived from the profit share ratio, continued net new business wins and positive investment returns for measuring the bonus charge against pre-bonus profit, and from the clients.
The Group saw record profit before tax and exceptional items total compensation ratio, measuring total remuneration expense of 644.7 million, up 6%, and earnings per share before exceptional against net income.
This ensures that the interests of employees items of 186.3 pence, up 5%.
The Board is recommending a 7% increase are aligned with the Groups financial performance.
in the total dividend per share for the year.
The Committee received a report from the Group Chief Executive on Net new business was 1.1 billion 2015: 13.0 billion, with net inflows the underlying strength and sustainability of the business and reports in Institutional, while Intermediary and Wealth Management saw on risk, legal and compliance matters from the heads of those areas.
AUMA ended the year at a record high of 397.1 billion These were considered as part of the 2016 compensation review.
2015: 313.5 billion and 74% 2015: 72% of our AUM outperformed their benchmark or peer group in the three years to 31 December 2016.
The Committee determined the annual bonus pool for the year ended 31 December 2016 based on a profit share ratio of 36% 2015: 37% and Further information on the Groups operating and financial performance a total compensation ratio of 44% 2015: 44%.
This is below our target can be found in the Strategic report, beginning on page 4.
Within the total compensation ratio range of 45% to 49%, as the Committee and Strategic report, the table on pages 14 and 15 outlines the Groups the Board as a whole were conscious of the macro trends facing asset strategy and how our objectives are aligned with those of our clients.
managers including Schroders and the impact in 2016 of weaker Pages 16 and 17 show our performance against our key performance sterling, but is in line with 2015.
From 2015 to 2016, headcount is indicators over the five years to 31 December 2016. up 10% and fixed remuneration costs are up 16%.
As a result the annual bonus pool was down 7% assuming constant currency rates.
Key performance metrics Key remuneration metrics 7% 6% Net income Headcount 8% 10% 8% 6% profit before tax Fixed remuneration costs 6% 16% 6% 7% Earnings per share Total remuneration costs 5% 8% 12% 7% Dividend per share Annual bonus pool 7% -7% 2015 vs 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 2016 vs 2015 Before exceptional items.
82 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Relative spend on pay The charts below illustrate the relative spend on pay for 2016 compared to 2015.
The values are taken from the financial statements and show how remuneration costs before exceptional items compare to shareholder distributions, taxes arising and earnings retained, in order to illustrate how net income is utilised.
2015 % vs. 2014 2016 % vs. 2015 14% 14% Fixed remuneration 403.6m 16% Fixed remuneration 347.8m 6% 21% 23% Variable remuneration 232.8m 8% Variable remuneration 234.1m 1% cash cash 15% 14% Variable remuneration 90.8m 6% Variable remuneration 90.2m -1% deferred deferred Other operating expenses 314.8m 6% Other operating expenses 356.8m 13% 14% 13% Corporate tax and 196.1m 4% Corporate tax and 188.9m 10% 11% 11% social security social security 5% 6% Retained earnings 258.7m 5% Retained earnings 246.4m 2% 20% 19% Interim dividend paid 237.0m 12% Interim dividend paid 253.6m 7% and final dividend and final dividend recommended recommended The annual bonus pool and annual bonus award allocations across the Group The table below shows the total annual bonus pool, divided into amounts paid in cash and amounts deferred.
The Group Chief Executive allocates the overall pool between the divisions or functions headed by GMC members, taking into consideration the objectives, both financial and non-financial, that were set at the beginning of the year.
Variable remuneration awards for employees, other than those determined, approved or reviewed by the Committee, are recommended to the Group Chief Executive by members of the GMC, taking account of individual performance against objectives, the performance of the relevant area and the levels of reward for comparable roles in the market.
The Committee was satisfied that the process was rigorous and that the allocation of the pool and the individual bonus awards took account of both financial and non-financial performance, including conduct, particularly with respect to client outcomes, as described on page 95.
The table below compares the annual bonus pools for 2015 and 2016.
The 2015 figures are also shown after adjusting to reflect the foreign exchange rates used during the 2016 compensation review, to provide a better comparison of what was awarded to employees each year.
Adjusted 1 2015 2015 2016 Profit share ratio 37% n a 36% Total compensation ratio 44% n a 44% m m m Total bonus paid in cash 232.8 244.3 234.1 Total bonus deferred into fund awards 40.4 41.8 35.6 Total bonus deferred into share awards 45.2 47.0 41.3 Bonus pool 318.4 333.1 311.0 Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred 27% 27% 25% Number of bonus-eligible employees 3,447 3,447 3,622 Mean annual bonus award per bonus-eligible employee 92,369 96,645 85,857 Median annual bonus award per bonus-eligible employee 17,000 18,000 17,806 Group Chief Executive's bonus as a % of the bonus pool 2.5% 2.4% 1.8% Aggregate bonuses to executive Directors as a % of the bonus pool 6.5% 6.2% 4.2% 1 Adjusted to reflect the same foreign exchange rates as those used for the 2016 figures.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Comparison of the percentage change in base salary, benefits Comparison of the percentage change in value from 2015 to 2016 and annual bonus award 3.3% The chart on the right compares the percentage change from 2015 1 Base salary 25.0% to 2016 in base salary, benefits and annual bonus award to the Group Chief Executive with the average year-on-year percentage change 3.4% 2 Benets 100.0% across employees of the Group taken as a whole except where noted.
-11.2% 3 Bonus 34.1% The salary increase shown for the Group Chief Executive reflects the part-year impact of increasing Peter Harrisons salary to 500,000 Peter Harrison Employees of the Group with effect from his appointment as Group Chief Executive on 4 April 2016.
Salary increases across the Group during 2016 were targeted at 1 employees whose roles had increased in scope materially during the For base salary, employees of the Group are those who were in employment for the full year to 31 December 2016 and represents the average salary increase during 2016. year and those whose fixed pay significantly lagged behind market 2 For benefits, employees of the Group are those who were in employment in the UK rates.
Particular attention was given to those on lower salaries, for for the full year to 31 December 2016 and represents the average change in benefits whom fixed pay forms a greater proportion of total remuneration.
3 For bonus, employees of the Group are bonus-eligible employees and represents the change in average bonus per bonus-eligible employee each year, at constant currency, The increase in the value of Peter Harrisons benefits reflects increased see page 83. private use of a company driver, which is a taxable benefit and so must be reported in the single total remuneration figures on page 85.
Peter Harrisons annual bonus award for 2016 was 34% higher than bonus pool coupled with headcount growth see pages 82 and 83. for 2015, reflecting his appointment as Group Chief Executive and Across the Group, individual annual bonus awards for 2016 compared expanded responsibilities.
The average annual bonus award per with 2015 varied from an increase in excess of 100% to a reduction bonus-eligible employee fell 11%, reflecting a reduction in the annual of bonus to nil, reflecting our pay for performance philosophy.
Gender pay The UK Government Equalities Office has introduced legislation that will require employers with 250 or more UK employees to disclose annually information on their gender pay gap.
The first disclosures will be based on amounts paid via payroll in April 2017 and must be published by 4 April 2018.
The gender pay gap must be based on an hourly pay rate for each relevant employee, reflecting base salary and certain allowances, and total variable pay over the previous 12 months, representing cash bonus paid plus any proceeds on exercise of ECP, EIP or LTIP awards.
Here we are voluntarily disclosing gender pay data for Schroders global workforce, on a similar basis.
We will publish our UK disclosures in due course.
Schroders was one of the first signatories of the Women in Finance Charter in the UK, as part of our commitment to promote diversity of thought and ensure Schroders is an inclusive place to work.
This is broader than gender and more information on our approach to Diversity can be found on page 30.
We originally committed to increase the representation of women in senior management to 30% by 2019.
Management made good progress in the first year and female representation was increased from 25% to 29%, while female representation on the GMC increased from 7% to 19%.
As a result, the target was increased to 33% female representation in senior management by the end of 2019.
Our focus is building on progress to date and developing the pipeline of female talent immediately below the GMC, where female representation is currently 19%.
The data below illustrates the representation issue by looking at the proportion of employees by gender according to quartile pay bands.
The proportion of female vs male employees according to quartile pay bands Top quartile of employees based on hourly fixed pay 21% females, 79% males Second quartile 36% females, 64% males Third quartile 50% females, 50% males Bottom quartile 59% females, 41% males Total workforce 41% females, 59% males The lower representation of women at senior levels within the Group, which is an issue across the financial services sector, is reflected in the gender gap shown below.
This looks across the total workforce and sets out the gender pay gap on a similar basis to the incoming UK disclosure rules.
Our analysis of pay levels for comparable roles shows that male and female employees are paid fairly for equal work.
Schroders globally Hourly The amount by which the male median exceeds the female median, as a % of the male median 33% fixed pay The amount by which the male mean exceeds the female mean, as a % of the male mean 31% Total The amount by which the male median exceeds the female median, as a % of the male median 59% variable pay The amount by which the male mean exceeds the female mean, as a % of the male mean 66% The proportion of female and male employees who received variable pay 95% of females and 96% of males More information on our Diversity and Inclusion action plan can be found on our website, www.
84 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Single total remuneration figure for each executive Director audited The total remuneration of each of the executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is set out below.
As disclosed in the 2015 Annual report on remuneration, the Committee increased Peter Harrisons salary to 500,000 with effect from his appointment as Group Chief Executive on 4 April 2016.
This salary is the same as was paid to his predecessor.
Benefits and allowances Include one or more of: private healthcare, life assurance, permanent total disability insurance, SIP Matching Shares, car parking, private use of a company driver and cash in lieu of discontinued benefits.
Michael Dobsons benefits include 15,000 paid by the Group during the year for legal advice to him in connection to his stepping down as Chief Executive and his appointment as Chairman.
Massimo Tosato also benefited from additional permanent total disability cover, life assurance cover and private health care, where the premiums that Schroders paid for these benefits totalled 80,000.
Retirement benefits Represents the aggregate of contributions to DC pension arrangements and cash in lieu of pension for Peter Harrison see page 90 and Richard Keers and cash in lieu of pension for Philip Mallinckrodt, Michael Dobson and Massimo Tosato.
The table on page 90 shows how the pension figure above is comprised for each Director.
Annual bonus award Represents the total value of the annual bonus award for performance during the relevant financial year.
Page 87 see pages 87 to 89 breaks down the bonus into cash paid through the payroll and ECP fund and share awards that will be granted in March following the relevant financial year end.
Pages 88 and 89 set out the basis on which annual bonus awards for 2016 were determined.
LTIP vested Represents the estimated value that is expected to vest on 2 March 2017 from LTIP awards granted on 27 March 2013. see page 90 More information on the performance achieved, how vesting will be determined and the value shown is provided on page 90.
Contractual settlement Represents the amount paid to Massimo Tosato in settlement of his contractual rights on stepping down, which is in addition to remuneration awarded for 2016.
Clawback terms apply to this payment.
If the Group had ended his employment without cause he would have been entitled to 12 months remuneration, calculated as the aggregate of base salary and annual bonus award for the previous year, which would have totalled 4.7 million.
The Committee agreed to pay 3.0 million in settlement of this right.
Michael Dobson also had a contractual entitlement when his employment ended, based on the average aggregate of base salary and annual bonus awards over the previous three years, which would have totalled 7.5 million.
Michael Dobson waived that entitlement and as a result no payment was made.
The current executive Directors do not have contractual terms entitling them to a payment if the Group ends their employment without cause.
For Michael Dobson, the remuneration reported in the table above was paid in respect of his contribution during the period of 2016 that he was Chief Executive.
His fees as Chairman are reported in the table of non-executive Directors remuneration on page 91.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Competitive positioning Remuneration levels for employees including the executive Directors are reviewed annually and benchmarked by reference to the external market to ensure they remain appropriately competitive.
The chart below illustrates the competitive positioning of pay for each executive Director, followed by a table providing additional commentary on the remuneration benchmarking approach in each case.
Total compensation abbreviated below to total comp.
reflects base salary at the year-end, annual bonus award in respect of 2016 and the grant-date face value of any LTIP award granted during the year, assuming 50% vesting see page 92.
The market data used in benchmarking these roles was provided independently by external advisors and reflects competitor pay for 2015, which is the most up-to-date data available, whereas the competitive position shown for Schroders in each case reflects remuneration awarded in respect of 2016.
In considering competitiveness, the Committee focuses on levels of pay for comparable roles at other large international asset management firms, though the benchmark peer group is adjusted for some roles to provide a more appropriate comparison.
This benchmarking is used to establish a frame of reference for what competitors are paying comparable roles, rather than as the start point or a primary factor when remuneration decisions are made.
As outlined on pages 87 to 89, annual bonus awards are based on the Committees assessment of the overall performance of the business and of each executive Director.
The policy is to aim to pay executive Directors base salaries that are competitive with other large international asset management firms.
As a result, it is likely that salaries will be relatively low when compared to other listed financial services firms, as can be seen below.
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Ocer Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Management Global asset FTSE-100 Global asset managers FTSE-100 European wealth FTSE-100 managers financial services and insurers financial services managers financial services Top quartile nd 2 quartile rd 3 quartile Bottom quartile Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total salary comp.
Positioning of remuneration at Schroders relative to the market benchmarks Role Commentary Group Chief Executive Approximately half of the global asset manager comparator roles are from non-listed businesses, including firms owned by a bank or insurance group and privately owned businesses, whereas Schroders is an independent publicly-listed company.
Schroders differs from most of the global asset managers in including Wealth Management within the Group Chief Executives remit, alongside Asset Management.
As a result, the Schroders Group Chief Executive role sits amongst the more complex of the roles making up this competitive benchmark.
Chief Financial Officer The peer group for this role includes large UK-listed insurers in place of bank or insurance-owned asset managers where asset management finance would report into a group finance function.
The Schroders Chief Financial Officer has wider responsibilities than the market norm, covering financial management, risk management, capital and treasury, human resources, corporate communications and direct responsibility for a range of operational areas, as well as firm-wide operational oversight.
Group Head of The peer group for this role focused on similarly sized wealth management businesses within Europe.
The scope of this Private Assets and Wealth Schroders role is broad, covering Private Assets alongside the Wealth Management business.
A more comparable benchmark Management could not be identified as this combination of responsibilities is not replicated at other firms.
For the FTSE-100 financial services comparison, the range of competitive remuneration is broad as the data combines all executive Director roles other than Group Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers.
86 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Performance of Schroders shares against the FTSE-100 Index and the Group Chief Executives total remuneration The graph on the right compares the total Group Chief Executive's total remuneration shareholder return of Schroders shares with Schroders ordinary shares that of the FTSE-100, of which Schroders is a Schroders non-voting ordinary shares long standing constituent.
Over the last eight FTSE-100 Index years, the index has returned 117%, compared 450 to a 334% return for Schroders ordinary shares 400 and 329% for Schroders non-voting ordinary shares.
It also shows the Group Chief 350 9 Executives single total remuneration figure 300 8 over the eight years ended 31 December 2016.
7 The table below sets this out in figures, as well 250 6 as how variable pay plans have paid out each 200 5 year.
It also shows the ratio of those single 150 4 total remuneration figures to the mean 3 and median total remuneration awarded 100 2 to employees as a whole and to other 50 members of the GMC.
1 0 0 3 4 Financial year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 Peter Michael Dobson Harrison Single total remuneration figure 000 2,867 6,267 5,570 4,870 8,414 8,155 8,905 2,432 6,293 Annual bonus award actual award as a 1 % of eight-year highest bonus 30% 73% 65% 56% 81% 87% 100% 25% 70% 2 LTIP vesting as a % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a 100% 50% 50% 50% 50% Ratio of single total remuneration figure to employee mean 23 x 38 x 33 x 31 x 45 x 44 x 47 x 13 x 33 x shown to employees as a whole to employee median 44 x 85 x 67 x 60 x 99 x 92 x 93 x 23 x 60 x Ratio of single total remuneration figure to GMC mean 2.0 x 2.7 x 2.4 x 2.9 x 3.4 x 2.9 x 3.3 x 1.2 x 3.1 x shown to GMC members to GMC median 2.4 x 2.9 x 2.6 x 2.9 x 3.6 x 3.0 x 3.4 x 1.2 x 3.2 x 1 No maximum annual bonus opportunity was in place so the actual annual bonus award is shown relative to the highest actual award over the last eight years.
2 Those years shown as n a include no LTIP value as the LTIP was introduced in May 2010 and the first award vested on 5 March 2014 based on the four-year performance period ending on 31 December 2013.
The percentage shown for 2016 reflects the proportion of awards granted in March 2013 that is expected to vest on 2 March 2017.
3 The 2016 remuneration in respect of Michael Dobson reflects the actual remuneration that he received in respect of the period of 2016 that he served as Chief Executive, as shown on page 85.
Fees in respective of his subsequent appointment as Chairman are shown in the table of non-executive Directors remuneration on page 91.
4 Peter Harrison was appointed Group Chief Executive on 4 April 2016.
2016 remuneration reflect the full-year single total remuneration figure on page 85.
Variable pay annual bonus award audited The table below sets out details of how the annual bonus award for each executive Director in respect of performance during 2016 was delivered.
ECP awards normally require the participant to remain in employment with the Group until the third anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.
These values are reflected in the single total remuneration figure for each executive Director.
ECP award Fund Share Total ECP Total annual Percentage of 1 2016 000 Cash bonus award award award award bonus award total remuneration Peter Harrison 2,800 1,350 1,350 2,700 5,500 87% Richard Keers 1,262 594 594 1,188 2,450 85% Philip Mallinckrodt 912 419 419 838 1,750 76% Michael Dobson 2,000 2,000 82% Massimo Tosato 1,300 1,300 66% 1 The total ECP award was reduced by 25% of the face value at grant of any LTIP award granted in 2016 see page 92.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 10 Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 Group Chief Executive's single total remuneration gure m Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Basis for determining annual bonus awards audited In determining the annual bonus award for the executive Directors, the Committee made an assessment of the overall performance of the business using the key performance indicators that are aligned to delivering the Groups strategy, as outlined on pages 16 and 17.
An assessment of each individuals performance was also made, including business performance within each individuals responsibilities, and the extent to which they have delivered against annual objectives.
Financial factors such as profitability, cost control and investment performance represent the significant majority of measures the Committee considers to ensure that remuneration outcomes are aligned to the value created for shareholders.
Both short-term and long-term performance is taken into account.
Non-financial factors such as risk management, conduct, employee engagement or achievement of key strategic goals in any year are also considered, although normally have less prominence in determining the annual bonus award.
Based on its assessment of performance, the Committee applied its judgement to determine annual bonus awards, taking into account the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive in respect of other executive Directors.
At the Group level, the executive Directors have successfully delivered against all metrics, although the Committee recognised that while net new business was ahead of budget in absolute terms the mix of new business wins was different to that budgeted.
Group-wide metrics for determining executive Director annual bonus awards: Criteria Target Performance in 2016 Extent to which target has been met Trend in profit Total cost ratio 65% 64% 2015: 63% The Group has again delivered record for the year financial performance in 2016 with good and appropriate Total compensation ratio 44% 2015: 44% management control of its cost base.
cost control 45% to 49% depending on market conditions Investment 60% outperformance over 74% 2015: 72% Investment performance remains strong performance 3 years over one, three and five years.
Net new business Achieve budgeted new 1.1bn 2015: 13.0bn Net new business was ahead of budget, business flows though market volatility led to greater outflows in Intermediary than forecast and Wealth Management continued to see net outflows versus budgeted inflows.
Talent retention Retention of key talent 90% 95% retention 2015: 94% Succession plans for key employees and succession are in place and were successfully planning Identify and implement utilised during the year, particularly succession plans for key in Investment, including the leadership employees of our Multi-asset business.
Diversity and 30% female representation 29% 2015: 25% Substantial progress has been made inclusion within senior management towards this target, including greater by the end of 2019 female representation on the GMC.
Risk management Key issues considered No significant issues See the Audit and Risk Committee Report and good conduct by Audit and Risk identified during the year page 58 and information on conduct, Committee compliance and risk management in remuneration on page 95.
Employee Opinion Survey Results confirm Schroders Results are in line with or better than the EOS results indicating the behaves in a responsible way 2015 EOS.
94% of employees are proud to Companys values are towards clients, employees be associated with Schroders 2015: 93% embedded within the Group and society at large.
See and 93% believe Schroders behaves in a page 30 responsible way to its clients 2015: 93%.
Share price Total shareholder value in 4%, 26% and 160% return on Schroders continues to deliver significant performance excess of that of the ordinary shares over one, value to shareholders over the long-term, FTSE-100 Index three and five years versus although over one year returns lagged the FTSE-100 returns of 19%, 18% FTSE-100 somewhat.
and 54% respectively Investment in future Delivery against strategic Good progress has been made across the Group.
Notably, diversifying our growth opportunities priorities investment offering including the acquisition of a securitised credit business, repositioning of our US business with the Hartford partnership and important strategic relationship from the stake taken in Benchmark Capital see page 11.
88 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities In addition to the Group-wide metrics, the performance factors outlined below, which have not been audited, were considered in determining individual Directors remuneration.
Individual performance criteria for determining executive Director annual bonus awards: Executive Director Criteria Performance in 2016 and extent to which the Committee judged performance criteria had been met Peter Harrison Overall performance of Group performance is outlined on the previous page.
See page 69 for more the Group information on the assessment of Peter Harrisons performance in 2016.
Establish and agree clear Strategic priorities were agreed with the Board, see page 10.
The opportunities strategic priorities with to acquire the wealth management business of C. Hoare & Co. and a significant the Board stake in Benchmark Capital were identified and approved.
These transactions completed on 15 December 2016 and 17 February 2017 respectively.
A Global Head of Strategy was appointed to develop and implement long-term goals and respond to the changing competitive landscape.
Review and strengthen A new Product division was established to focus on franchises and product product strategy development, see page 27.
A range of new strategies have been launched including credit value, credit absolute return, fiduciary and a low-risk Multi-asset offering.
Build momentum in the North The US business generated positive flows in both Intermediary and Institutional.
American business The Hartford strategic partnership repositions intermediary distribution.
The securitised credit team acquisition broadens our US product offering.
Successfully transition the Overall leadership of Distribution was successfully transitioned to John Troiano.
leadership in the Distribution The next level of leadership within the division has also been refreshed using division an appropriate balance of internal and external talent.
Richard Keers Accurate, appropriate, clear Positive feedback received from the Audit and Risk Committee, external timely reporting auditors, analysts, shareholders and other industry bodies.
Co-ordination of our global A new Global Operating Committee was established, chaired by Richard Keers, operating platform responsible for implementing the strategy for our operating platform.
Good progress is being made on the transition to a new investment technology platform, which will be completed next year.
Enhance investment capital The ILAAP received Board approval and positive PRA feedback.
Investment risk risk and liquidity reporting appetites for investment capital were approved by the Board and significant capital management and reporting improvements were delivered.
Oversee a strong risk and See the Audit and Risk Committee report no significant issues were reported control function in the year.
Particular improvements delivered to internal risk-assessment processes and the ICAAP.
Lead the delivery of the new This significant project is on budget and on-track for employees to move in the London office first half of 2018.
Philip Mallinckrodt Ensure the smooth transition The transition to Andrew Ross was achieved successfully in May.
A new Chief of the Global Head of Wealth Investment Officer for the division was recruited.
Other succession planning was Management role undertaken.
Performance of the Groups Wealth Management profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 8%, Wealth Management division in line with budget.
Develop our Private Assets Real Estate revenues increased by 7%, though net new business was flat.
activities, including Real Strategy formulation in other areas is underway.
Estate Lead the Groups overall A Head of CR was appointed to drive delivery of CR activities.
Active support CR approach given to the firms work on Diversity and Inclusion.
Michael Dobson Overall performance of Strong Group performance in the first quarter of the year, during his tenure the Group as Chief Executive, as outlined on the previous page.
Ensure the smooth transition The transition to Peter Harrison was achieved successfully.
of the Chief Executive role Massimo Tosato Ensure the smooth transition The transition to John Troiano was achieved successfully and key client of the Global Head of relationships maintained and built upon.
Distribution role Criteria met Partially met Not met The metrics and targets outlined above and on the previous page represent the most material criteria by which the Companys performance and the performance of the executive Directors were assessed.
In addition, all of the key performance indicators set out in the Strategic report on pages 16 and 17 were considered, as these are used to measure our performance over the long term.
The Committee members and the Board as a whole also review performance across a broad range of other metrics as part of the normal course of business throughout the year and during the year-end process.
Performance against many of these metrics is disclosed in the half year and full year results announcements and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Variable pay determining vesting of prior LTIP awards audited The LTIP awards granted on 27 March 2013, covering the 2013 to 2016 performance period, are expected to vest on 2 March 2017.
The criteria for determining the extent of vesting are set out below.
The composite index against which earnings per share performance was measured for these awards was set at the time that they were granted, as 60% equities, measured by the Morgan Stanley Capital International MSCI All Country Index, and 40% fixed income, measured by the Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Index.
Despite the strong performance of Schroders since awards were granted, only 50% of awards are expected to vest as the very demanding EPS target will not be met.
Maximum % Vesting % of Performance measure of award Performance achieved award EPS 50 The four year growth in the MSCI All Countries Index was 0 If the growth of adjusted EPS in the fourth year compared to the 81.1% and the Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Index was year prior to grant exceeds a defined composite index by: 27.4%.
Weighting them 60% and 40% respectively, growth of the composite index was 59.6%.
Four year growth in less than 20% no vesting adjusted EPS was 75.6%, which exceeds the composite equal to 20% 12.5% vests index by 16.0% but is insufficient to trigger any vesting.
between 20-40% straight-line basis 40% or greater 50% vests NNB 50 The four year cumulative NNB from 2013 to 2016 was 50 less than 15 billion no vesting 46.8 billion, which is sufficient to trigger full vesting equal to 15 billion 12.5% vests of this part of the LTIP award.
between 15-25 billion straight-line basis 25 billion or greater 50% vests Total vesting in relation to 2013-2016 performance 50 The Audit and Risk Committee independently reviewed key judgements made by management in respect of material provisions and contingent liabilities, to ensure these are reasonable, and this is reflected in these LTIP calculations.
Value at vesting of prior LTIP awards audited The following table shows, for each Director, the estimated value vesting from LTIP awards granted on 27 March 2013, based on the average closing mid-market share price over the three months ended 31 December 2016 and the expected vesting percentage shown above.
The total value that is expected to vest is reflected in the single total remuneration figure for each Director.
Grant date face Estimated total value Proportion expected to Estimated value of LTIP award Expected of LTIP award shares vest in relation to Number of shares value vesting Individual Date of grant 000 date of vesting 000 2013-2016 performance expected to vest 000 Peter Harrison 27 March 2013 400 2 March 2017 536 50% 9,389 268 Philip Mallinckrodt 27 March 2013 200 2 March 2017 245 50% 5,793 122 Michael Dobson 27 March 2013 500 2 March 2017 544 50% 9,536 272 Massimo Tosato 27 March 2013 200 2 March 2017 268 50% 4,694 134 Fixed pay retirement benefits audited The following table gives details of retirement benefits provided to executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The figures in the employer contribution columns represent contributions paid into DC pension arrangements during the year and exclude any contributions made by the Directors.
There has been no DB accrual since 30 April 2011.
Accrued DB pensions are subject to actuarial reduction on early retirement so there is no enhanced benefit entitlement in these circumstances.
Accrued DB 2016 2015 pension at Normal 2016 Employer 2016 cash in retirement 2015 Employer 2015 cash in retirement 31 December retirement 1 1 2 000 contributions lieu of pension benefits total contributions lieu of pension benefits total 2016 age Peter Harrison 20 25 45 40 5 45 60 Richard Keers 10 35 45 40 5 45 60 Philip Mallinckrodt 40 40 40 40 77 60 3 Michael Dobson 12 12 46 46 4 60 Massimo Tosato 45 45 45 45 60 1 Philip Mallinckrodt, Michael Dobson and Massimo Tosato received cash in lieu of pension and Richard Keers and Peter Harrison received a combination of employer contributions to the Groups DC pension arrangement and cash in lieu of pension contributions.
2 Normal retirement age is the earliest age at which a Director can elect to draw their pension under the rules of the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme without the need to seek the consent of the Company or the pension scheme trustee.
3 Michael Dobson began to draw his pension from the Scheme with effect from 13 May 2012.
He has no further prospective pension benefits from the Group.
90 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Fees from external appointments The executive Directors are permitted to retain for their own benefit fees they receive from any external non-executive directorships, provided the directorships do not relate to any interest held by the Group.
These fees do not relate to the Group and so are not included in the single total remuneration figures on page 85.
Richard Keers served as a non-executive member of the Franchise Board of Lloyds from June 2016, for which he received fees of 43,000, including in respect of his membership and chairmanship of the Franchise Boards audit committee during the year.
Non-executive Directors remuneration audited The total remuneration of each of the non-executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is set out below.
2016 2015 Committee Committee Taxable Committee Committee Taxable 1 1 000 Basic fee chairman member SID benefits Total Basic fee chairman member SID benefits Total 2 Michael Dobson 465 8 473 Robin Buchanan 70 40 110 70 40 110 3 Rhian Davies 70 17 20 107 33 9 42 Lord Howard 70 20 40 10 140 70 20 40 7 137 Nichola Pease 70 40 110 70 40 110 Bruno Schroder 98 2 100 98 2 100 Former Directors 4 Andrew Beeson 89 89 350 350 5 Ashley Almanza 23 8 7 38 70 25 20 1 116 1 Senior Independent Director.
2 The remuneration reported for Michael Dobson was paid in respect of the period of 2016 that he was Chairman.
His remuneration for the period of 2016 that he was Chief Executive is reported on page 85.
3 Rhian Davies was appointed to the Board in July 2015 and as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in May 2016.
4 Andrew Beeson retired from the Board on 4 April 2016.
5 Ashley Almanza stepped down from the Board on 28 April 2016.
Non-executive Directors annual fees currently are as shown Chairman 625,000 on the right.
1 Board member 70,000 Ian King and Rakhi Goss-Custard were appointed to the Board with Senior Independent Director 10,000 effect from 1 January 2017 and on appointment their fees were set 2 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 25,000 at the same level as for other non-executive Directors.
Audit and Risk Committee member 20,000 Nominations Committee Chairman nil The benefits for Michael Dobson are private healthcare and medical benefits for him and his family and occasional private use of a driver Nominations Committee member nil 2 and for Bruno Schroder are private healthcare and medical benefits.
Remuneration Committee Chairman 20,000 Remuneration Committee member 20,000 1 Bruno Schroder also receives an additional annual fee of 28,000 for services to the Group.
2 In addition to the Committee membership fee.
Payments to former Directors No payments were made to former Directors during 2016.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Board changes in 2016 and treatment of deferred remuneration awards audited On 4 April 2016, Michael Dobson ceased to be an executive Director and became non-executive Chairman.
On 31 December 2016, Massimo Tosato retired from the Board and left the Group.
As disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee considered Michael Dobsons continued role as Chairman and his more than 14 years of service to Schroders at that time, and Massimo Tosatos 20 years of service, together with their respective contribution to the Group and the significant value both have created for shareholders.
In light of this, the Committee exercised its discretion under the plan rules of the ECP and LTIP to allow both Michael Dobson and Massimo Tosato to retain their unvested awards, outlined on pages 93 and 94, when their executive roles came to an end.
As a result, they retain their unvested ECP fund and share awards, which will continue to vest on the normal timescales in accordance with the ECP rules.
For the purpose of the exercise period for ECP awards, the Committee exercised its discretion to treat Michael Dobson as though he remains in employment.
Massimo Tosatos awards will be exercisable within 12 months following the end of the vesting period and he is subject to post-employment restrictions in respect of hiring key employees of Schroders.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, their LTIP awards have been reduced pro-rata for the proportion of the performance period that each of them remained an employee of the Group see page 94 and vesting remains subject to the satisfaction of the associated performance conditions.
ECP and LTIP awards granted during 2016 audited The following awards under the ECP were granted to Directors on 7 March 2016 in respect of deferred bonuses for performance during 2015.
No further performance conditions need to be met for awards to vest but ECP awards normally require the participant to remain in employment with the Group until the third anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.
ECP fund awards are conditional rights to receive a cash sum based on the value of a notional investment in a range of Schroders funds.
ECP share awards were granted as nil-cost options.
These awards were included in the single total remuneration figures disclosed last year and form part of the prior year value shown in this years single total remuneration figure table on page 85.
They are also shown in the tables of directors rights under fund and share awards on pages 93 and 94.
Face value at grant 000 Basis of award Fund Share Total ECP Share price Number of Individual granted awards awards award at grant shares Performance conditions Peter Harrison 975 975 1,950 26.24 37,157 Deferral of Awarded in respect Richard Keers 575 575 1,150 26.24 21,913 bonus awarded of performance in Philip Mallinckrodt in respect of 456 456 912 20.35 22,422 2015.
No further performance performance Michael Dobson 1,925 1,925 3,850 26.24 73,361 in 2015. conditions apply.
Massimo Tosato 1,050 1,050 2,100 26.24 40,015 The following awards under the LTIP were granted to Directors on 7 March 2016 as nil-cost options.
These awards do not appear in the single total remuneration figure on page 85 as they are subject to performance conditions and will not vest until 2020.
They are shown in the table of directors rights under share awards on page 94.
% of face value that Basis of award granted Vesting maximum would vest at Face value at grant Share price Number of End of performance 1 Individual as % of salary as % of face value threshold 000 at grant shares period 2 Peter Harrison 80 100 25 400 26.24 15,243 31 December 2019 Richard Keers 80 100 25 300 26.24 11,432 31 December 2019 Philip Mallinckrodt 80 100 25 300 20.35 14,742 31 December 2019 1 Performance under both the EPS and NNB performance measures at the threshold level to achieve non-zero vesting.
2 The figure shown as the basis of award granted for Peter Harrison reflects his salary following his appointment as Group Chief Executive.
All ECP share awards and LTIP awards were granted over ordinary shares, except for the awards granted to Philip Mallinckrodt, which were granted over non-voting ordinary shares.
The share price used to determine the number of shares under each ECP share award and LTIP award is the mid-market closing share price on the last trading day prior to the date of grant and this is the price used to calculate the face value shown.
The vesting of the LTIP awards is subject to the performance conditions set out on page 77.
The composite index for these awards is the same as will apply for awards to be granted in 2017, see page 96.
92 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Personal shareholding policy audited To align the interests of senior employees with those of shareholders, 28 February 2017 with the shareholding required under the personal the executive Directors and the other members of the GMC are shareholding policy, as a percentage of salary, except for Massimo required, over time, to acquire and retain a holding of Schroders Tosato where the shareholding is as at 31 December 2016, the date shares or rights to shares equivalent to 300% of base salary.
executive Director and GMC member undertakes not to sell any Proposed Policy 500 Schroders shares until their share ownership target has been reached.
Peter Harrison Current Policy 300 Actual 553 For these purposes, rights to shares include the estimated after-tax value of unvested ECP or EIP share awards shown as unvested no performance conditions on page 94 and ECP share awards due to be Richard Keers Policy 300 granted in respect of performance in 2016 see page 87 but do not Actual 419 include any unvested rights to shares from LTIP awards as these are subject to performance conditions.
Subject to shareholder approval 1 Philip Mallinckrodt Policy 300 at the 2017 AGM, the Remuneration Committee intends to increase 1,934 Actual the shareholding requirement for the Group Chief Executive to 500%.
Massimo Tosato Policy 300 Each executive Director had achieved the current target of 300% 508 Actual of salary as at 28 February 2017, based upon the mid-market closing 1 share price on that date.
The chart opposite compares the value of Philip Mallinckrodts shareholding above is his holding derived from employment.
It does not include his other share interests see page 95. each executive Directors shareholdings for these purposes as at Directors rights under fund and share awards and Directors share interests This section outlines Directors rights at 31 December 2016 from fund and share awards granted under the Groups deferred remuneration plans.
It goes on to set out the total interests in shares of the Directors and their connected persons at 31 December 2016.
Directors rights under fund awards audited Directors had the following rights under fund awards, based on the award values at grant: Unvested ECP Vested ECP awards awards Total 000 000 000 Peter Harrison At 31 December 2015 1,675 1,675 Granted 975 975 At 31 December 2016 2,650 2,650 Richard Keers At 31 December 2015 844 844 Granted 575 575 At 31 December 2016 1,419 1,419 Philip Mallinckrodt At 31 December 2015 988 456 1,444 Granted 456 456 Vested 138 138 Exercised 213 213 At 31 December 2016 1,306 381 1,687 Michael Dobson At 31 December 2015 4,263 4,263 Granted 1,925 1,925 Vested 1,044 1,044 Exercised 1,044 1,044 At 31 December 2016 5,144 5,144 Massimo Tosato At 31 December 2015 2,481 2,481 Granted 1,050 1,050 Vested 650 650 Exercised 650 650 At 31 December 2016 2,881 2,881 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Directors rights under share awards audited Directors had the following rights to shares under the Groups deferred remuneration plans, in the form of nil-cost options.
Includes LTIP awards granted on 27 March 2013, which were unvested as at 31 December 2016 but are expected to partially vest on 2 March 2017 see page 90 and any balance will lapse.
2 No performance conditions apply for these awards.
Although executive Directors are not eligible to receive EIP awards, Peter Harrison received an EIP award in December 2013, prior to his appointment as an executive Director in May 2014.
3 Of the awards exercised by Massimo Tosato, awards over 17,186 shares were settled in cash.
None of his remaining vested or unvested awards will be settled in cash.
During the year, the aggregate gain on nil-cost options for Philip Mallinckrodt was 1,057,000, for Michael Dobson was 424,000 and for Massimo Tosato was 4,509,000.
These related to awards settled in shares or cash.
94 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors share interests audited The Directors and their connected persons had the following interests in shares in the Company at 31 December 2016: Number of shares at 31 December 2016 Non-voting Ordinary shares ordinary shares Executive Directors Peter Harrison 360 Richard Keers 351 Philip Mallinckrodt 79,461,706 6,030,782 Non-executive Directors Michael Dobson 432,525 187,821 Robin Buchanan 9,839 Rhian Davies 1,000 Lord Howard 5,000 Nichola Pease 951 1 Bruno Schroder 13,881,416 1,482,417 Former Directors Ashley Almanza Andrew Beeson 15,000 Massimo Tosato 2,983 1 T he interests of Philip Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder set out above include their beneficial interests and those of their connected persons in their respective capacities as members of a class of potential discretionary beneficiaries under certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
Between 31 December 2016 and 28 February 2017, the only movements in the Directors share interests were the acquisition under the SIP of 16 ordinary shares by Peter Harrison, 17 ordinary shares by Richard Keers and eight ordinary shares by Massimo Tosato.
Conduct, compliance and risk management in remuneration During 2015, work was done to revalidate Schroders core values of ensure that attitudes to risk and compliance and behaviours in line excellence, innovation, teamwork, passion and integrity, and expand with our values are reflected in the determination or allocation of on these to articulate expected employee behaviours more clearly.
the bonus pool and in individual employee performance ratings and remuneration outcomes.
To drive positive change and reinforce those messages, in 2016 a global employee recognition scheme was launched, which provides To ensure the Committee is adequately informed of risks facing an opportunity to recognise employees who champion the Schroders the Group and the management of those risks, the Chairman of the values.
Further information is on page 32.
Committee serves on the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee also receives reports from the heads of Risk, Legal and Compliance Performance management and remuneration are important tools as part of its consideration of remuneration proposals see page 82. to reinforce expected standards of behaviour.
During the annual performance appraisal, employees and line managers assess each The Committee also reviewed the Groups regulatory disclosures individuals behaviours, to identify those whose behaviour exemplifies in the context of the FCAs and PRAs requirements.
The remuneration our values as well as any employees whose behaviour falls short of the disclosures required under CRD are incorporated into the Groups standards that we expect.
Pillar 3 disclosures and are available at www.
Other regulatory remuneration disclosures can be found at In 2016, we have implemented a process where issues are www.
independently identified by the Groups control functions and fed into the compensation review process, providing a further opportunity to Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Governance Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 The proposed Directors remuneration policy is subject to a binding Basis for determining executive Directors annual bonus shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
If approved, the policy will apply awards in respect of performance in 2017 for performance-years 2017, 2018 and 2019, unless the Group seeks Executive Directors annual bonus awards in respect of performance shareholder approval for changes to the policy in the meantime.
in 2017 will be based on broadly the same performance metrics as If shareholders do not vote to approve the proposed new policy were considered for 2016.
The process to determine awards will be then the current policy will continue to apply.
Targets and performance against those targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2017 Annual report on remuneration.
2017 Board changes The Company has announced changes to Philip Mallinckrodts role, as LTIP awards to be granted in 2017 outlined in the Chairmans statement on page 7.
Philip relinquished his In accordance with the current Directors remuneration policy, the executive responsibilities on 1 March 2017 after more than 20 years Committee intends to grant LTIP awards over shares with the following with the Group.
values to the executive Directors in March 2017: He has waived his contractual notice period and will not be eligible for LTIP face value a bonus in respect of his contribution during the period of 2017 that he Director at grant was Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Management.
His annual Peter Harrison 600,000 bonus award of 1.75 million in respect of his contribution during 2016 Richard Keers 400,000 is subject to standard deferral as shown on page 87 and includes malus and clawback terms.
Philip Mallinckrodt will not receive a LTIP award in 2017.
The Committee considered Philips long service, his contribution to the The vesting of these awards will be based on EPS and NNB performance Company and the significant value created for shareholders.
In light of this, the Committee has exercised its discretion under the rules of conditions and targets as outlined on page 77.
The Committee has reviewed the make up of Schroders AUM at 31 December 2016 to the ECP and LTIP to allow him to retain his unvested awards when his executive role with the Company came to an end.
These awards remain determine the indices and weightings that will make up the composite index against which EPS performance will be measured, as a proxy for subject to malus and clawback terms.
Once vested, each award will be exercisable within a 12-month period following vesting.
His unvested the market movement of Schroders AUM.
For awards to be granted in March 2017, the following weighted basket of indices will be used: ECP awards result from the deferral of bonuses relating to 2016 and prior years.
The vesting of LTIP awards remains subject to the satisfaction of the associated performance conditions and will be Weighting time-apportioned for the proportion of the performance period Index % that he remained an employee of the Group.
Morgan Stanley Capital International All Countries Asia Pacific 15 Morgan Stanley Capital International Emerging Markets 7.5 As a member of the principal shareholder group, he continues on the Morgan Stanley Capital International All Countries World 15 Board of the Company as a non-executive Director.
In this role he has Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe 5 a letter of appointment with a mutual notice period of six months.
His fees were set at the same level as for the other non-executive Directors.
FTSE All Share 7.5 He will not be eligible for annual bonus awards.
The private medical Barclays Capital Global Aggregate 50 insurance and life assurance benefits that he received as an executive Director will continue until 30 June 2017.
Lord Howard of Penrith Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2017 96 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016
