Directors' Report Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder the extent to which the current Policy remains aligned to the ongoing transformation, and has also looked On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our ahead to what may be required in 2018 and beyond Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year to support the next key phase in the delivery of the ended 31 December 2016. business strategy, which will be the Growth phase.
The This introduction provides the context for the Committee has also given consideration to how well the Committees decision-making during the year, and Policy is aligned to wider market practice and to more summarises the key points from the Report, including recent corporate governance developments.
those relating to the future policy, performance and Our aim is to focus on value creation and share incentive plan outcomes and the Committee activities.
ownership to align executives with the completion of Context the strategic business transformation and delivery of In 2013 and 2014, the Company went through a the outcomes committed to shareholders.
The current period of crisis, during which many members of the Policy focuses management on maximizing earnings management team left the business.
In 2014 a new and returns on invested capital in each year.
The current management team was appointed: some 1.3bn of focus on rewarding long-term success for consistently provisions and write-downs were taken: and in early delivering progress, in line with or above investor 2015, as part of a Rights Issue which raised 550m the expectations, is key to ensuring Serco retains the high new management set out a three-phase strategy to turn calibre individuals who were appointed in 2014 to turn Serco around.
The first phase Stabilisation involved Serco around, and to develop and deliver our five-year rebuilding the core of the business, including the plan.
We have consulted with our major shareholders and balance sheet: the second phase Transformation the large majority of those who responded supported started in 2015 and is set to run to early 2018.
The third the continuation of the current arrangements.
The Committee is therefore asking shareholders to Our performance in 2016 approve the renewal of the current Policy for a single year, with a view to doing a further review of Policy As reported in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 during 2017 and putting a new three year Policy to substantial progress has been made in 2016 in the shareholders at the AGM in 2018. delivery of the Transformation phase, as set out in our Strategic Report on page 13.
Customer confidence and The single-year extension to the current Policy allows a trust has been rebuilt, as evidenced by a 30% increase new Policy to be aligned to the strategic requirements in our bid pipeline and a 40% increase in our order of the third phase of our turnaround, which starts in intake in 2016: employee engagement has increased: 2018.
The Committee also recognise that since the costs have been reduced by some 450 million, and Policy was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders trading performance has been stronger than expected in 2014, certain aspects of the current arrangements at the beginning of the year.
All this has been reflected have been overtaken by evolving market practice.
In in a strong share price performance during the year.
particular having two long-term incentive vehicles a There is more work to do, and 2017 will be a critical year Performance Share Plan and a Deferred Bonus Plan, for the management team as they drive towards the with one of these being based on a share matching completion of the Transformation phase.
arrangement, is not universally supported.
The Committee wishes therefore to conduct a further review Shareholder engagement and planned during the course of 2017 to design a new Policy, which, changes to policy amongst other considerations, will result in the share Included within this Report is our Directors matching element being removed.
The timing of this Remuneration Policy the Policy.
Under the will also provide the Committee with the opportunity regulations, our Remuneration Policy is required to to give full consideration to the emerging corporate be presented to shareholders for re-approval by governance policies and best practice guidelines, shareholders every three years, and therefore together including the Governments White Paper expected to with our Annual report on Directors Remuneration, be released in late Spring 2017. will be voted on by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting, AGM on 11 May 2017.
I and the Committee believe it is important to continue to maintain effective channels of communication with The requirement to put the Policy back for a vote comes our shareholders.
The Committee takes the views at a time when the business is at a critical stage of its of shareholders very seriously and these views have turnaround, with the Transformation stage just over halfbeen influential in shaping our policy and practice.
The Committee has therefore considered 96 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Committee will therefore be asking shareholders decisions being made by the Remuneration Committee.
to approve the renewal of the existing Policy at the As a result of the rigour applied to this process, the AGM in 2017 for a single year, with a further review Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus out-turn to be undertaken and a new three-year Policy to be fairly reflects management performance in the year and developed and put to shareholders ahead of being that the transparency regarding this introduced in the tabled for approval at the AGM in May 2018.
2015 DRR has continued in respect of 2016.
Remuneration outcomes in respect of the Performance against role-specific objectives has 2016 financial year also been strong.
Each of the Executive Directors has between 8 and 12 objectives aligned to our Long-term incentives 4 priorities: Winning Good Business, Executing The long-term incentive awards made under the PSP in Brilliantly, Making Serco a Place People are Proud to 2014 were based on targets set prior to the Rights Issue Work, and Making Serco Profitable and Sustainable.
and, in line with good practice, were not adjusted.
As 2016 has been a successful year: the Transformation a result of the issues identified through the Contract phase of the strategy is well underway: the pipeline of and Balance Sheet Review in 2014, and the subsequent new prospects has grown substantially, as has order impact on Group performance, the element of the longintake.
The Viewpoint Engagement score amongst the term incentives granted to the new Executive Directors Leadership population is up 17 percentage points.
The both on joining and in 2014, that are based on the performance of each member of the Executive team financial targets being tested as at 31 December 2016, is subject to a detailed review against their objectives will lapse as a result of the financial targets attached to as part of the decision-making on any bonus to be these awards not being achieved.
awarded in respect of non-financial elements.
Short-term incentives After thorough consideration, as a result of the For the 2016 financial year, the Group Bonus Plan achievement of strong financial and non-financial the Plan in which Executive Directors participate was performance over the year against the targets set, a focused on three core measures which comprised bonus award of 82.3% of maximum 123.5% of salary 70% of the overall opportunity: Group Revenue, has been determined for Rupert in respect of 2016 Group Trading Profit and Group Free Cash Flow.
The corresponding bonus amounts for The remaining 30% of the opportunity is based on Angus and Ed are 81.6% of maximum 106.0% of salary role-specific objectives related to the delivery of the and 80.1% of maximum 120.1% of salary respectively.
There was unanimous support for the decision to make Financial performance has been strong: on both Trading these bonus awards to reflect the contribution that Profit and Free Cash Flow the achievements of the each member of the team has made to strengthen the business were in excess of the stretching targets set business and position it for success.
by the Committee at the beginning of the year and therefore these components have been earned in full.
The Committee is mindful of the importance of open The level of Revenue achieved over the period was and timely disclosure of bonus targets and the role above threshold and as such 33% of this component they play in the Committees ability to explain to of the bonus was awarded.
The Committee has also kept under review the commercial sensitivity The financial bonus outcomes have been calculated of targets as the Company progresses through after appropriate adjustments were made agreed at transformation.
We are pleased to continue with our the beginning of the year as part of the target-setting disclosure practice in disclosing targets in the year process and in line with the approach disclosed in to which they relate.
The targets, and the assessment respect of 2015.
The Committee has once again of performance against them, for the 2016 Plan are spent considerable time reviewing the Trading Profit therefore disclosed in this years Report on page 112. calculation for bonus purposes, initially working with management to determine a robust approach We intend to consult further with shareholders on to decision-making, informed by a review of each the quality of our disclosure as part of the full review individual contract and cross-referencing to information of remuneration to be undertaken during the course shared with the Audit Committee.
This year the external of 2017. auditors verified the extraction of the figures for bonus purposes from the audited information, followed by a formal sign-off by the Audit Committee prior to 97 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Approach for 2017 Committee changes Salary reviews no change The Committee was delighted to welcome Mike Clasper and John Rishton as Non-Executive Directors Base salaries, for our Executive Directors were set in NEDs to the Committee on 1 August 2016 and a way which reflected the needs of the business at 13September 2016 respectively.
Both Mike and John the time they were appointed in 2014: shareholders bring extensive knowledge across a range of industries gave overwhelming support to their appointment and and are already proving to be a great addition to the subsequently to their remuneration.
been made to base salary since the individuals were appointed in 2014 and no changes are planned for Closing remarks 2017: for the third consecutive year, with effect from 2016 has been a year of significant progress in delivering 1April 2017, the salaries for the Executive Directors the turnaround.
I believe that the Remuneration will remainunchanged.
Committee has rigorously made the necessary decisions Short-term incentives no change to ensure that reward is clearly linked to performance The target and maximum bonus opportunity will remain and shareholder interests, and that any incentive payments awarded reflect what has been delivered.
at 75% target 150% maximum of salary for Rupert Soames and Ed Casey, and 65% target 130% maximum Serco has a highly effective executive management team and a clear strategy to transform the business of salary for Angus Cockburn.
70% of the bonus will continue to be based on financial measures, which are and position it for success in attractive markets.
We will continue to engage with shareholders to ensure Revenue 20% weighting, Trading Profit 40% weighting and Free Cash Flow 40% weighting.
The remaining that our leadership team are rewarded appropriately to incentivise them to complete the Transformation and 30% will once again be individually set and based on key strategic goals related to the delivery of the move forward to restoring the growth, margins and returns of the business.
Long-term incentives no change The Committee intends to make the next set of Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP awards in 2017 in accordance with the current policy approved in May 2014.
The performance measures will remain the same as those used for the Angie Risley 2016 awards with the PSP targets based on aggregate Chair of the Remuneration Committee EPS, relative TSR and average ROIC with an equal weighting on each.
The DBP has served the business well in reducing the amount of annual bonus paid as cash, and providing a mechanism by which the Executive Directors may invest a significant proportion of their annual bonus earned in respect of past performance, with the opportunity to earn a matching award based on future EPS performance.
The choice of performance measure has incentivised executives to consistently deliver earnings in line with or above investor expectations during a challenging business transformation.
Our major shareholders confirmed their continued support for this to ensure the new Executives appointed to deliver the business turn around are focused on leading the business back into sustainable growth.
98 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements At a glance: implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 and key decisions for 2016 The table below summarises: How key elements of the Remuneration Policy presented here, and once approved to apply from the 2017 AGM, will be implemented in 2017: and Key decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee in relation to the remuneration of Directors in respect of the 2016 financial year.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 CEO Rupert Soames CFO Angus Cockburn COO Ed Casey Element Base salary from 1 April 2017 850,000 500,000 $1,061,690 Pension 30% of salary 30% of salary 30% of salary including cost of participation in US 401k plan Annual bonus Max 150% of salary Max 130% of salary Max 150% of salary On-target 75% of salary On-target 65% of salary On-target 75% of salary 1 Annual bonus measures 70% financial targets: 40% Trading Profit, 40% Free Cash Flow and 20% Revenue.
30% non-financial targets linked to key strategic goals.
Annual bonuses are subject to a Trading Profit underpin.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Directors are eligible to participate in the 2017 DBP in line with the Policy approved at the AGM in 2014.
A maximum of 50% of the 2016 bonus paid in 2017 can be deferred to purchase investment shares.
Each individual investment share purchased will be matched on a gross investment basis by a maximum of two matching shares.
2 DBP measures Vesting of awards made under the DBP will be determined by reference to the Groups EPS performance measured over three years.
Performance Share Plan PSP Maximum 200% of salary Maximum 175% of salary Maximum 175% of salary 2 PSP measures Awards granted under the PSP in 2017 will be subject to Group performance over a three year period ending 31 December 2019: 1 3rd Aggregate EPS Statutory Earnings Per Share EPS before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis, measured as an aggregate over the three-year performance period.
1 3rd Relative TSR Total Shareholder Return TSR when ranked relative to companies in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
1 3rd Average ROIC Pre-tax Return on Invested Capital ROIC, measured as an average over the three-year performance period.
Holding requirement Vested shares from the PSP must be held for two years post vesting after payment of tax.
Shareholding requirement 200% of salary 150% of salary 150% of salary Malus and clawback Malus provisions will apply to the PSP and DBP awards during the three-year performance period prior to vesting.
Clawback provisions will apply to the annual bonus plan.
Clawback provisions will apply during the two-year post-vesting holding period to shares arising from PSP awards.
Clawback provisions will apply to matching shares awarded under the DBP.
Changes to the previously The requirement to put the Policy back for a vote comes at a time when the business is at a approved policy critical stage of its turnaround, with the Transformation stage just over half-way through.
The Committee is asking shareholders to approve the renewal of the current Policy for a single year, with a view to doing a complete review of the Policy during 2017, and putting a new three-year Policy to shareholders at the AGM in 2018.
The Committee deems the specific details of the performance measures and targets to be commercially sensitive as they are intrinsically linked to the forward looking strategy of the business.
Full disclosure will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which final performance is assessed provided these details are no longer considered sensitive.
The Committee sets the performance targets in respect of the PSP and DBP immediately prior to the grant of the award and therefore these are not yet determined.
Details of the performance targets will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which the awards are made.
99 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Key decisions made in respect of Directors remuneration in 2016 Executive Directors Element CEO Rupert Soames CFO Angus Cockburn COO Ed Casey 1 April 2017 salary review No change No change No change 2016 Bonus outcome: Currency value 1,049,325 530,075 $1,274,824 % of salary 123.5% 106.0% 120.1% % of maximum 82.3% 81.6% 80.1% 2014 PSP vesting Nil Nil Nil EPS performance condition for the period ending 31 December 2016 Non-Executive Directors Chairman fee effective 250,000 no change 1 July 2016 Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy in 2017 The following charts illustrate the value that may be delivered to Executive Directors under different performance scenarios for the year ending 31 December 2017.
Also shown, for comparison, is the actual value delivered in the year ended 31 December 2016 excluding the value received from buy-out awards vesting in the year.
Rupert Soames '000s Angus Cockburn '000s Ed Casey US$'000s 2,865 6000 3000 7000 $6,526 5,379 6000 5000 2500 5000 4000 2000 1,615 4000 $3,607 2,935 3000 1500 53% 54% 1,220 55% $2,753 2,179 3000 37% 38% 2000 40% 1000 690 2000 20% 23% 43% $1,483 46% 1,129 23% 25% 22% 24% 48% 1000 500 1000 100% 38% 21% 52% 100% 43% 24% 57% 100% 39% 21% 54% 0 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Actual Minimum Target Maximum Actual Minimum Target Maximum Actual Single Single Single Figure '16 Figure '16 Figure '16 Fixed elements of remuneration Annual Variable Multiple period variable The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Fixed elements of remuneration Base salary as applicable from 1 April 2017 Estimated value of benefits to be provided in 2017 in line with the Remuneration Policy based on the value of actual benefits provided in 2016 Pension contribution cash supplement equal to 30% of salary Annual bonus, deferred bonus plan and performance share plan participation as set out in the Policy table.
In all cases, Target performance results in delivery of 50% of maximum opportunity.
The Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan values reflect the face value at grant of shares that could be received for Target and Maximum performance.
The maximum matching award level under the DBP assumes maximum deferral and a 2:1 match against a maximum bonus.
100 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements In this section Remuneration Policy Page Annual Report on Remuneration Page Directors Remuneration Policy 101 Executive Single Figure 111 Remuneration Policy for Other Employees 106 Variable Pay Outcomes 112 Recruitment Policy 107 Non-Executive Director Single Figure 116 Service Contracts and Loss of Office Policy 108 2016 Share Awards 119 Non-Executive Director Policy 110 Directors' Share Interests 122 Remuneration Committee 124 This report has been drafted in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Directors Remuneration Policy In this section, the Committee presents the Remuneration Policy report for shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
As set out in the Chairs Letter, given where the Company is with the business transformation, the Committee deemed it was not appropriate to make changes to the Remuneration Policy at this time.
The Company is still in the process of completing the transformation and delivering on the objectives committed, and communicated, to shareholders.
There is strong agreement that there is a need to ensure stability within our Remuneration Policy, until such time as the transformation is nearing completion.
The Committee will therefore be asking shareholders to re-approve the existing Policy at the AGM in 2017.
As set out in the Chairs letter, it is intended that the Policy will be subject to a review with further consultation with our major shareholders during the latter part of 2017 and a revised Policy tabled at the AGM in May 2018.
In the tables and narrative below, we have set out details of each element that may comprise the remuneration package of a Director, what the opportunity is under that element, and importantly how each element supports the business and aligns the interests of the Directors with the wider stakeholders, including shareholders, in the Company.
The approved Directors Remuneration Policy as applicable to remuneration for the year ending 31 December 2016 is displayed on the Companys website, in the investor area.
Remuneration Policy Sercos Remuneration Policy supports the achievement of the Companys long-term strategic objectives.
Sercos approach to executive remuneration is designed to: Support Sercos long-term future growth, strategy and values: Align the financial interests of executives and shareholders: Provide market-competitive reward opportunities for performance in line with expectations and deliver significant financial rewards for sustained out-performance: Enable Serco to recruit and retain the best executives with the required skills and experience in all our chosen markets: Be based on a clear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand and support.
We approach Executive Directors remuneration on a total reward basis to provide the Remuneration Committee with a view of total remuneration rather than just the competitiveness of the individual elements.
Analysis is conducted by looking at each of the different elements of remuneration including salary, annual bonus, performance share plan and pension in this context.
This ensures that in applying the Remuneration Policy executive pay is sufficient to achieve the goals of the Remuneration Policy without paying more than is necessary.
The leverage of fixed:variable pay also ensures that significant reward is only delivered for exceptional performance.
This remuneration framework is echoed throughout the organisation with the approach to pay for the wider workforce reflecting these core principles where appropriate.
101 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Future policy table The remuneration package for Executive Directors' consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term share-based incentives, pension and other benefits.
The Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion of the package is related to performance, with the relevant performance measures completely aligned to the core requirements of a successful business transformation.
The following table sets out each element of reward and how it supports the Companys short and long-term strategic objectives.
Whilst the table is focused on Executive Directors, the table set out on page 106 provides further information of how pay policies are set for the broader employee population.
Maximum potential How the element value Performance metrics supports our and payment at used, weighting and strategic objectives Operation of the element threshold time period applicable Base Salary To help recruit and Pay levels are designed to be Over the policy period, Unchanged since appointment retain executives of competitive and fair, and reflect base salaries for Executive the necessary calibre the skills and performance of Directors will be set at an to execute Sercos individuals.
appropriate level within strategic objectives the peer group and will Salaries are benchmarked from and to recognise normally increase at no time to time against salaries for the an individuals more than the greater Companys relevant peer group, with experience, of inflation and salary the market positioning dependent responsibility and increases made to the on the scale of challenges intrinsic performance.
general workforce in the to the individuals role and the jurisdiction the Executive To ensure base individuals ability, and experience.
salaries are In some circumstances there may competitive in the be phased movement to that Higher increases may market in which market positioning.
be made in exceptional the individual is circumstances, for Salaries are reviewed annually employed.
example when there and any changes are effective is a change in role or from 1 April in the financial year.
Benefits To provide a Serco pays the cost of providing the The maximum None competitive level benefits on a monthly basis or as opportunity for benefits of benefits.
required for one-off events such is defined by the nature as receiving financial advice.
of the benefits and the cost of providing them.
A range of benefits may be As the cost of providing provided to Executive Directors.
such benefits varies based on market rates and other These include, but are not limited factors, there is no formal to, company car or car allowance, maximum monetary value.
private medical insurance, permanent healthcare insurance, life cover, annual allowance for independent financial advice, and voluntary health checks every two years.
Relocation benefits will be provided in a manner that reflects individual circumstances and Sercos relocation benefits policy.
For example, relocation benefits could include temporary accommodation for the Executive and dependents, education costs for dependents and tax equalisation.
Benefits are reviewed annually against market practice and are designed to be competitive.
102 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Maximum potential How the element value Performance metrics supports our and payment at used, weighting and strategic objectives Operation of the element threshold time period applicable Annual Bonus Incentivise executives The Committee sets objectives at Maximum bonus Bonus is earned on the basis of to achieve specific, the start of each performance year.
opportunity: achievement of a mix of financial predetermined goals The annual performance measures and non-financial objectives of 150% of salary for CEO that are aligned to and objectives are determined with which at least 50% are financial.
130% of salary for CFO the business strategy reference to the Groups overall Financial measures are based on during a one-year strategy and annual business plan 150% of salary for COO the Companys Key Performance period.
and priorities for the year.
At the Indicators KPIs and the nonOn-target bonus: end of the performance year the Reward ongoing financial measures are based on bonus result is determined by the 75% of salary for CEO stewardship and key strategic objectives.
Committee based on performance contribution to 65% of salary for CFO against the objectives and Performance is measured over the core values.
75% of salary for COO financial year.
Annual bonuses are paid after the Threshold bonus is 20% The Committee has discretion end of the financial year to which of maximum bonus to vary the weighting of they relate.
There is an optional opportunity.
performance metrics over the deferral of 50% of the total earned life of this Remuneration Policy.
bonus into Serco shares under the Also the Committee has discretion Deferred Bonus Plan.
in exceptional circumstances to vary performance measures On change of control, the part-way through a performance Committee may pay bonuses year if there is a significant event on a pro-rata basis measured on such as a major transaction or performance up to the date of transition in role which causes the change of control.
Committee to believe the original performance conditions are no longerappropriate.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP This plan is to Executive Directors can elect to For maximum EPS is the sole measure to determine incentivise executives defer, for three financial years, up performance, each the vesting of matching shares.
to achieve superior to 50% of their net annual bonus by investment share is The performance condition is longer term returns purchasing investment shares.
matched by two matching measured over three years, awards for shareholders and shares.
25% of the Each individual investment share vest at the end of the three year to align executives to matching award vests for purchased will be matched on a period to the extent that the shareholder interests threshold performance.
gross investment basis by up to performance condition is met.
through an increased a maximum of two matching shareholding.
In exceptional circumstances the shares granted as conditional Committee retains discretion to share awards.
change performance measures and Dividend equivalents are accrued in targets and the weightings attached respect of matching shares awarded to performance measures part-way and are delivered as additional through the performance period shares to the extent that the if there is a significant event for matching award vests.
example a major transaction which causes the committee to believe In circumstances such as fraud, the original measures, weightings or misconduct and or misstatement targets are no longer appropriate.
by a participant, the Company will be entitled to withhold before the The Committee has discretion to vesting date the value of any shares vary the proportion of awards that to be released or the payment of vest, to ensure that the outcomes cash equivalents under the DBP.
are fair and appropriate and reflect the underlying financial On a change of control, awards vest performance of the Group.
pro-rata for time and performance up to the date of change of control unless the Committee decides otherwise.
As provided in the plan rules approved by shareholders, the Committee has discretion to adjust awards in the event of, for example, corporate restructuring or capital events.
103 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Maximum potential How the element value Performance metrics supports our and payment at used, weighting and strategic objectives Operation of the element threshold time period applicable Performance Share Plan PSP To drive achievement Awards of nominal cost options Face value on grant of Vesting is dependent on at least of longer term conditional shares normally made 200% of base salary for two performance conditions chosen objectives, increase annually.
the CEO and 175% for from: shareholder value the CFO and COO.
Dividend equivalents are accrued in EPS aligned closely to respect of PSP shares awarded and 25% of the award vests for Relative TSR creating shareholders are delivered as additional shares to threshold performance interests.
Absolute Share Price or TSR the extent that the PSP award vests.
rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for The measures are independent and The Committee, at its discretion maximum performance.
are measured over three years.
The may attach a post-vesting holding weighting of each is determined period for awards.
The Committee has discretion to adopt other measures In circumstances such as fraud, following consultation with major misconduct and or misstatement shareholders.
by a participant, the Company will be entitled to withhold before the In exceptional circumstances the end of the holding period the value Committee retains discretion to of any shares to be released or the change performance measures and payment of cash equivalents under targets and the weightings attached the PSP.
to performance measures part-way through the performance period if On a change of control, awards vest there is a significant event such as a pro-rata for time and performance major transaction which causes the up to the date of change of control committee to believe the original unless the committee decides measures, weightings or targets are otherwise.
As provided in the plan rules The Committee has discretion to approved by shareholders, the vary the proportion of awards that Committee has discretion to vest, to ensure that the outcomes adjust awards in the event of, for are fair and appropriate and example, corporate restructuring reflect the underlying financial orcapitalevents.
Pension To provide pension Executive Directors may participate Rupert Soames and None related benefits to in the Group defined contribution Angus Cockburn receive encourage executives pension plan.
a cash allowance in lieu of to build savings for pension equal to 30% of US employees are eligible to join retirement.
Ed Casey participates Employer contributions are in the US 401k plan and reviewed against local market receives a cash allowance practices annually.
in lieu of pension equal to 30% of base salary less Executive Directors may choose to the cost of participation in receive some or all of their employer the US 401k plan.
pension contribution in cash to invest as they see fit.
Shareholding Requirement To support longUnvested awards that are subject The shareholding None term commitment to performance conditions guidelines are 200% of to the Company and are not taken into account in salary for the CEO, and the alignment of determining an Executive Directors 150% of salary for the CFO employee interests shareholding for these purposes.
with those of Share price is measured as at the The Committee has the shareholders.
end of the relevant financial year.
discretion to increase Executives are required to retain the shareholding in shares 50% of the net value of requirements of the any performance shares vesting or Executive Directors.
options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding requirement.
104 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Notes to the policy table: Performance measures and targets The table below sets out a rationale for the performance conditions applicable to the Annual Bonus, Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plans, and how targets are set.
Element Performance measures and rationale How targets are set Annual bonus Financial and non-financial performance measures.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee, The Committee selects the financial measures taking into account analyst consensus based on the Companys current Key Performance and the Companys forecasts.
Non-financial measures are individually set and based on key strategic goals.
Deferred Bonus Plan EPS is the sole measure to determine the vesting EPS targets are set in reference to of matching shares and has been selected as the analyst forecasts, Company business performance measure for the DBP as it is a key plans, and levels of EPS required to performance indicator both for the Company support our share price goals.
The Committee takes care to ensure that specific EPS targets are suitably The Committee believes EPS can be directly stretching.
influenced by executive decision-making while also reflecting shareholder value, thus aligning Relative TSR performance is measured the Directors with the interests of shareholders.
against the constituents of the FTSE 250 as at the date of grant.
As Serco Performance Share Plan Performance targets will be based on a combination is a constituent of the FTSE 250 it of performance conditions including at least two of is felt that comparisons to the TSR the following: EPS, Relative TSR, Absolute share price.
performance of other companies in this As set out above, EPS is an important measure of Index provides a good measure of the shareholder value which can also be influenced by relative performance of Serco.
Absolute share price and TSR targets Relative TSR reflects our performance relative to other are set to reflect what the Committee companies in which investors could chose to invest.
determines as stretch growth, taking into account recent price performance Absolute share price or TSR targets drive the longer as well as growth forecasts and the term improvement in our returns to shareholders.
economic environment to ensure The rationale for the share price measure is to ensure targets are consistent with achievable that a full award is not delivered unless shareholders levels of stretch financial performance.
benefit from a significant increase in value over the The Committee consults with a three year performance period.
selection of the largest shareholders and the voting guidance services when determining targets for the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
Malus and clawback Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards under the PSP and DBP, and clawback provisions also apply to the annual bonus.
Under the Policy, the Committee, at its discretion, may reduce or cancel malus or recover some or all of awards granted to Executive Directors in certain circumstances.
Under the malus provisions the Committee may reduce or prevent vesting of an unvested PSP or DBP award in circumstances including but not limited to: material misstatement of the Groups audited financial results: material or misleading results announcement prior to vesting: or a clear and material contravention of the Companys ethics and values on the part of the participant or a team member, team, business area or profit centre for which the participant is responsible.
In the most serious of these circumstances the Committee may also invoke the clawback provisions against vested awards under the PSP, DBP and annual bonus.
The clawback must be implemented within five years of the grant of the relevant PSP and DBP awards, and within two years in respect of bonus awards paid in cash.
105 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Use of discretion The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, DBP and PSP according to their respective rules, as approved by Shareholders, and in accordance with the Listing Rules, where applicable.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of areas with regard to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to: The participants: The timing of grant of an award: The vehicle of an award: The size of an award: The determination of vesting or bonus payment: Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and determining the performance measures for the awards granted from year to year.
In relation to the PSP, DBP and annual bonus plan, the Committee retains the ability, in exceptional circumstances, to change performance measures, targets and or the relative weighting of performance measures part-way through a performance period if there is a significant event such as a major transaction or, in the case of the bonus only, a transition in role which causes the Committee to believe the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
In exercising this discretion the Committee will determine that the original conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee also has discretion to vary the proportion of awards that vest, to ensure that the outcomes are fair and appropriate and reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Remuneration Policy described here applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Group.
The Committee believes that the structure of management reward at Serco should be linked to Sercos strategy and performance.
The table below explains how this philosophy has been cascaded below Executive Directors to achieve alignment with the remuneration strategy across the organisation.
Element Difference in Remuneration Policy for other employees Base salary The same principles and considerations that are applied to Executive Directors are, as far as possible, applied to all employees.
Benefits Serco also has provisions for market-aligned benefits for all employees.
Pension The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Individuals who exceed certain pension tax allowances may be offered cash allowances in lieu of pension benefits.
Annual bonus Approximately 370 members of the Global Leadership Team are eligible for a bonus award under The Leadership Team Bonus Scheme.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Members of the Executive Committee are invited to participate in the DBP on the same terms as the Executive Directors.
Performance Share Plan PSP Annual awards under the PSP are made to approximately 370 employees in the Global Leadership Team.
106 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the general base salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors.
Considerations of shareholder views We have consulted with our largest shareholders and received support for the continuation of the current arrangements at least in the short-term whilst the major elements of the Transformation phase are executed during 2017.
The Committee believes it is important to continue to maintain effective channels of communication with our shareholders.
The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously and these views have been influential in shaping our policy and practice.
With the Policy subject to further change, we intend to engage in further consultation with our major shareholders during the latter part of 2017 and a revised Policy will be tabled at the AGM in May 2018.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Our overarching remuneration principles continue to apply in recruiting new hires or promotions to the Board that is that we seek to offer a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate while aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
We take into account that, as a global business, Serco operates in diverse markets and geographies and many of its competitors for talent are outside the UK.
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Remuneration Policy incorporating all elements as set out above.
The recruitment policy also includes the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation in line with Serco policies as may be required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
The policy for recruitment also includes benefits that are either not significant in value or are required by legislation.
It is anticipated that any new Executive Director would be offered either a pension contribution and or a pension allowance equal to 30% of base salary.
As summarised below, the Remuneration Policy provides for a maximum combined total incentive under bonus, PSP and DBP of 500% of salary in any one year assuming maximum bonus, maximum investment in the DBP and maximum achievement of all PSP and DBP performance conditions.
Element of remuneration Maximum percentage of salary Maximum variable pay: 500% normally comprising: Annual bonus 150% Long-term incentives 350% Note: Maximum percentage of salary for annual bonus and long-term incentives excludes compensation for awards forfeited.
This is the maximum level of incentives excluding any to compensate for entitlements forfeited that will apply to new recruits.
Different performance conditions may apply for new recruits from those set out in the Policy, depending on the particular circumstances at the time which could, for example, include the appointment of an interim Executive Director.
107 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued In determining appropriate base salary on hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all factors it considers relevant, including their experience and calibre, current total remuneration, levels of remuneration for companies in the Committees chosen peer group, and the remuneration required to attract the best candidate for Serco.
The Committee will seek to ensure that the arrangement is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
New promotes or recruits to the Board may on occasion have their salaries set below the targeted policy level while they become established in their role.
In such cases, salary increases may be higher than inflation or the general UK workforce increase until the targeted market positioning is achieved.
Where it is necessary to compensate a candidate for entitlements and or unvested longterm incentive awards from an existing employer that are forfeited, the Committee will seek to match the quantum, structure and timeframe of the award with that of the awards forfeited.
In determining the form and quantum of replacement awards, the Committee will consider whether existing awards are still subject to performance requirements, and the extent to which those are likely to be met, with the aim of providing an opportunity of broadly equivalent value.
The principle will be to seek to replace awards that remain significantly at risk for performance at the candidates current employer with awards subject to performance at Serco, and to seek to make any other replacement awards in the form of Serco shares, subject to appropriate vesting or holding requirements.
Any compensation for awards forfeited is not taken into account in determining the maximum incentive award level.
Where a new Executive Director is an internal promotion, the Committee has discretion to allow the new Executive Director to continue to benefit from existing awards granted, or benefit entitlements such as pension, that were in place prior to appointment to the Board.
The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the same remuneration elements as for the existing Non-Executive Directors.
It is not intended that day rates or benefits in kind be offered outside of those in the Remuneration Policy for NEDs, although in exceptional circumstances such remuneration may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances.
The Committee will include in future Annual Reports on Remuneration details of the implementation of the recruitment policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
Service contracts and loss of office payments The policy for service contracts for new Directors is shown in the table below.
The Committee may under this policy at any time, with the agreement of a Director, alter aspects of their existing contracts so that they are in line with the policy for new Directors.
Specific provisions are in place for Ed Casey in that the notice period is 12 months from the Company as is usual policy, and 4 months from the Director to more closely align with US employment practice.
Copies of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be adjusted from year to year.
The date of appointment for each Director is shown in the table on page 110.
108 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Provision for Executive Directors Detailed terms Notice period 12 months notice from the Company 12 months notice from the Director Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice comprising: Base salary Pension allowance Selected benefits All of the above would be paid in instalments in accordance with the Directors contractual payment schedule, subject to an obligation on the part of the Director to mitigate his loss.
Payments will either reduce or cease completely, in the event that the Director gains new employment remuneration.
In the event of a compromise or severance agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees incurred by the Director in connection with such agreements and reasonable payments in respect of restrictive undertakings.
The Committee may agree that if a Director steps down from the Board then for a transitional period, notice including payment in lieu of notice would continue to be based on the equivalent of up to twelve months based on their rate of salary and benefits while a Director, payable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee.
Treatment of annual No payment unless employed on date of payment of bonus except for good bonus on termination leavers: defined as death, disability, redundancy and other circumstances at the Committeesdiscretion.
Good leavers are entitled to a bonus pro-rated to the period of service during the year, subject to the outcome of the performance metrics and paid at the usual time.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of a good leaver in line with performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested All awards lapse except for good leavers: ill-health, injury or disability, death, performance shares or redundancy, retirement, change of control as defined in the plan rules and other options and unvested circumstances at the Committees discretion to the extent that they allow good leaver matching deferred share treatment for particular awards.
awards on termination For good leavers vesting is pro-rated on a time basis and is dependent on the achieved 1 under plan rules performance over the performance period.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the level of vesting to reflect the individual performance, and may, depending on the circumstances of the departure, allow some awards to vest while lapsing others.
Change of control Where the Director leaves the Company following a change of control, whether or not he is dismissed or he elects to leave on notice, he will be entitled to receive a payment equivalent to up to one years remuneration.
Bonuses may be paid on a pro-rata basis measured on performance up to the date of change of control.
PSP awards vest pro-rata for time and performance up to the date of change of control unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Exercise of discretion Intended only to be used to prevent an outcome that is not consistent with performance.
The Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
Whilst unvested Awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its absolute discretion allow for Awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
In such circumstances, Awards vesting will normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied by the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued participation is justified, for example, by reference to past performance to the date of leaving, or by the requirement to achieve an orderly transition.
The claw-back provisions would continue to apply in the event that such discretion were exercised.
Provision for NEDs Detailed terms Letters of appointment Appointed for initial three-year term.
Appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Loss of office policy No compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
109 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors In accordance with the Companys policy, the fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set at a level which is designed to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company's registered office.
How the element Maximum potential Performance metrics supports our value and payment used, weighting and strategic objectives Operation of the element at threshold time period applicable Fees The fees of the Chairman are determined and Over the policy period, Non-Executive approved by the Remuneration Committee base fees for current NonDirector fees are not To attract Nonexcluding Chairman and fees of the NonExecutive Directors will be performance-related.
Executive Directors Executive Directors, are determined and set at an appropriate level with the necessary approved by the Board as a whole.
within the peer group and experience and increases will typically be ability to make The Chairman receives a base fee.
broadly in line with market.
a substantial The following fees are paid to Non-Executive contribution to the The base fees or fees for Directors in addition to their base fee: Groups affairs.
specific Non-Executive Directors roles may be Senior Independent Director fee reviewed at any time Committee Chairmanship fee based on the anticipated Committee Membership fee responsibility and time commitment involved.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis against a relevant peer group and taking Current fee levels are shown into consideration market practice.
Benefits An allowance is payable to directors for N A attendance at meetings outside their country of residence where such meetings involve intercontinental travel.
In addition, reasonable travel and business related expenses are paid.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive incentives and pension.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Dates of Directors Service Contracts Letters of Appointment Director Date of appointment to the Board Rupert Soames 8 May 2014 Angus Cockburn 27 October 2014 Ed Casey 25 October 2013 Roy Gardner 1 June 2015 Angie Risley 1 April 2011 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr 30 June 2011 1 Malcolm Wyman 1 January 2013 Mike Clasper 3 March 2014 2 Tamara Ingram 3 March 2014 Rachel Lomax 3 March 2014 3 John Rishton 13 September 2016 1.
Malcolm Wyman stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 31 October 2016.
Tamara Ingram stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 31 July 2016.
John Rishton was appointed to the Board on 13 September 2016.
All Directors are put forward annually for re-election at the AGM.
110 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Annual report on remuneration The implementation of the Remuneration Policy for year ended 31 December 2016 The Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2016 was consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
Single Figure Directors remuneration audited information Executive Directors single figure The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for 2016 for each Executive Director, together with comparative figures for 2015.
Details of NEDs fees are set out in the next section.
The value of the UK taxable benefits relate to the provision of independent financial advice, provision of a car or car allowance fully inclusive of all scheme costs including insurance and maintenance, health care, private medical assessments and expatriate benefits.
Ed Caseys 2016 benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of 80,527 for accommodation while in the UK.
Where Serco settles the PAYE and NIC liability in respect of benefits provided, the value of the benefit has been grossed up at the individuals marginal tax rate.
Performance bonuses earned in the period under review, but not paid until the following financial year.
During the year Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn participated in the DBP by deferring 50% of their 2015 bonuses via the purchase of Investment Shares.
Any deferral of the 2016 bonuses, payable in 2017, will take place during 2017 and be reported in the 2017 DRR.
Includes the gain on vesting of recruitment awards conditional share awards vesting in 2016 for Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn.
These awards were granted in compensation for non-performance based awards forfeited by Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn on joining Serco, therefore no performance conditions applied to the vesting of these awards however these shares were not included in the single figure value for the year of grant.
Rupert Soames award over 29,628 shares vested on 6 August 2016 at a share price of 1.282 being the share price on the last trading day prior to vest.
Angus Cockburn's award over 23,837 shares vested in full on 5 August 2016 at a share price of 1.282.
The 2014 awards granted under the PSP that were subject to EPS performance in the period to 31 December 2016, did not vest as the performance condition was not met further details are provided below.
The 2015 LTI value for Rupert Soames relates to a non-performance recruitment award conditional share award that vested on 16 April 2015 19,911 shares with a share price of 1.47 on the date of vest.
This was not included in the relevant single figure value for the year of grant.
The pension amount includes payments made in lieu of pension, calculated as a percentage of base salary, from which the Executive Directors make their own pension arrangements.
Ed Casey's value includes the Serco contribution to his 401K plan.
Ed Casey's remuneration is paid in US dollars and has been converted into GBP using the average exchange rate over the relevant financial year.
For the purpose of the 2016 single figure USD1 GBP 0.72672.
For the purpose of the 2015 single figure USD1 GBP 0.65398.
The increase in the GBP value of Ed Caseys base salary and pension is due to the exchange rate difference between 2015 and 2016.
His 2016 base salary and pension were unchanged from 2015 salary USD 1,061,690, with an employer 401K contribution of USD 7,950 and cash alternative of USD 306,306.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016 were: Director Base salary Effective Date Increase Rupert Soames 850,000 8 May 2014 N A Angus Cockburn 500,000 27 October 2014 N A Ed Casey $1,061,690 1 April 2014 N A 111 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Variable pay outcomes audited information Performance-related annual bonus For 2016, the Executive Director bonus was based on achieving a mix of financial and non-financial objectives which were weighted 70:30.
The financial measures were based on Trading Profit 40%, Free Cash Flow 40% and Revenue 20% and the non-financial measures were individually set and based on key strategic goals.
Payments under the 2016 annual bonus were subject to an Underlying Trading Profit underpin after adjustment for in-year Onerous Contract Provisions OCP items of 50.0m.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the achievements against the targets for the year and the proposed annual incentive payments for the Executive Directors.
The tables below show the achievement against the financial and non-financial measures.
Financial performance Achievement against measure Weighting for 2016 Threshold Maximum Actual % maximum % maximum bonus target target performance opportunity for Performance Measure opportunity m m m this measure Revenue 14% 2,802 3,004 2,859 33% Free Cash Flow 28% - 54.9 - 44.5 - 33.0 100% Trading Profit 28% 50.0 59.2 73.7 100% Non-financial performance Weighting for 2016 % maximum opportunity 30% Rupert Angus Ed Soames Cockburn Casey Achievement against measure 72.5% 70.0% 65.0% % maximum opportunity for this measure Overall 2016 bonus outcome Rupert Angus Soames Cockburn Ed Casey Total bonus payable as % of maximum 82.3% 81.6% 80.1% Bonus opportunity as % of salary 150% 130% 150% Bonus amount achieved as % of salary 123.5% 106.0% 120.1% Bonus amount earned 1,049,325 530,075 $1,274,824 Note: All Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan the DBP in 2017, up to a maximum of 50% of the bonus determined in respect of 2016 performance.
For FY16, the Group Bonus Plan the Plan in which Executive Directors participate was focused on three core measures which comprised 70% of the overall opportunity: Group Revenue, Group Trading Profit and Group Free Cash Flow.
The remaining 30% of the opportunity is based on role-specific objectives related to the delivery of the business transformation.
Financial performance has been strong: on both Trading Profit and Free Cash Flow the achievements of the business over the year were in excess of the stretching targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and therefore these components have paid out in full.
The level of Revenue achieved over the period was between threshold and maximum and as such 33% of this component of the bonus was awarded.
112 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The financial bonus outcomes have been calculated after appropriate adjustments were made agreed at the beginning of the year as part of the target-setting process and in line with the approach disclosed in respect of 2015.
The Committee has once again spent considerable time reviewing the Trading Profit calculation for bonus purposes, initially working with management to determine a robust approach to decision-making, informed by a review of each individual contract and with cross-referencing to information shared with the Audit Committee.
This year the process was further strengthened by involving the Companys external auditors in verifying the extraction of figures appearing in the accounts and those tabled for bonus purposes, followed by a formal sign-off by the Audit Committee on the numbers used to determine bonus payments prior to decisions being made by the Committee.
As a result of the rigour applied to this process, the Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus outturn fairly reflects management performance in the year and that the transparency regarding this introduced in the 2015 DRR has continued in respect of 2016.
Trading Profit of 100.3m is adjusted by the Committee to arrive at a figure for Trading Profit for bonus purposes: shareholders were consulted on the principles behind these adjustments in 2015, and the bonus outcome for 2015 reflected these principles, the purpose of which is to ensure that management are measured against their in-year performance and are not given credit for gains for which they have not materially influenced.
The first adjustment is to put Trading Profit into constant currency, so that it is consistent with the targets set at the beginning of the year: this is a 5.7m reduction.
The Committee then considers items to properly reflect management effort and in-year operational performance.
The Committee has concluded that a total of 20.9m should be adjusted out of Trading Profit in constant currency to arrive at a calculation of Trading Profit for bonus purposes.
The table below sets out the adjustments made by the Committee between Trading Profit and Trading Profit for bonus purposes in 2016.
2016 m Trading profit 100.3 Constant currency adjustment 5.7 Trading profit at constant currency 94.6 Adjustment for bonus purposes 20.9 Trading profit for bonus purposes 73.7 The Revenue and Free Cash Flow actual performances reflect constant currency and includes discontinued operations, making them consistent with the basis on which the targets were set.
113 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Non-Financial Performance Rupert Soames Ruperts objectives focused on: Improving Business Development performance The Committee deemed performance to be very strong.
Rupert has to rebuild the pipeline, with focus on both new continued to show highly effective and visible leadership throughout business wins and total wins including re-competes 2016, and over the course of the last 12 months has delivered essential and extensions.
elements of the Transform stage of our turnaround.
This included completing the rationalisation of our portfolio to achieve a strategic Supporting Divisions in dealing with commercial focus on public services in five sectors and four geographies: issues and managing key customer relationships.
continued progress in reducing the burden of loss-making contracts: Leading the delivery of the on-going transformation rebuilding our business development capacity, which has supported plan with agreed in-year savings.
an increase in our pipeline of larger new bid opportunities.
Demonstrating effective leadership of both the Furthermore, significant progress has been made in building management team and the Group as a whole, differentiated capabilities and strengthening our sector propositions, continuing to improve employee engagement which includes the successful development of our three Centres of through embedding a performance culture, Excellence covering Health, Transport and Justice & Immigration.
ensuring there is clear understanding of what Rupert has refreshed Sercos values to Trust, Care, Innovation and leadership means in Serco supported by Pride, which sit at the very core of how the business operates.
Committee have also been able to monitor that the values have been embedded successfully though our annual Viewpoint employee Lead effective development of the strategic plan engagement survey with further increases in employee engagement, refresh with agreement of the Board to its which is a key determinant of the future success of the business.
Chairman regards the support Rupert has provided to him in ensuring Support the Chairman to ensure the effective the effective operation of the Board to be first class.
Based on working of the Board.
Ruperts achievement the Committee has awarded above target but below maximum performance for the non-financial element relating to these objectives.
Angus Cockburn Anguss objectives focused on: Managing the tender process for new external The Committee deemed Anguss performance to be very strong auditors and ensuring the effective handover from against all objectives.
Examples of successes include the tender Deloitte: completing the internal audit tender and process for new auditors, which was deemed to have been very well successful transition to the new firm, and developing executed in a short timeframe: clear plans to transition from Deloitte the strategy for Internal Audit Reviews.
to KPMG were executed seamlessly.
A new Internal Audit strategy was developed and a new outsource partner, PWC, were appointed.
Completing the returns of cash to private placement The Internal Audit Strategy was approved by Audit Committee.
Cash return to noteholders was executed successfully.
Significant Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of improvements have been made in contract finance reporting and the finance function through the Global Finance overall efficiency of the finance function.
The creation of a Global Transformation GFT with a number of key Finance Community has taken real shape this year.
In addition, Angus milestones agreed at the start of the year.
worked closely with Group Strategy and delivered a five-year financial Work with the Group Strategy Function to ensure that plan to support the strategy.
This plan was designed in such a way that there is a five-year plan for each line of business.
it can also be used for impairment reviews and viability assessment.
Further examples of successes include the quality of engagement with investors and analysts ending with the successful Capital Markets event.
Based on Anguss achievement the Committee has awarded above target but below maximum performance for the non-financial element relating to these objectives.
114 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Ed Casey Eds objectives focused on: Improving Business Development performance to The Committee deemed Eds performance to be very strong against rebuild the pipeline, with focus on both new business all objectives.
Ed has been a driving force behind the improvement wins and total wins including re-competes and in pipeline and level of bid activity in 2016: Centres of Excellence extensions.
have gained traction and have made a significant positive impact on Business Development and positioning for future growth.
The quality Continue to refine Risk Management process and and consistency of Business Development has improved and win work to embed as part of our operational approach rates have also shown improvement.
The new risk operating model to running the business.
and training were delivered and the Group Risk Committee reporting Continue to improve our internal governance has been significantly refreshed to reflect the Committees needs.
compliance to achieve more consistent operational The implementation of the Contract Management Application is performance, ensuring each Division has a robust a significant achievement and will give the Company a tool to help Compliance & Assurance programme that has been improve how we manage our contracts.
Much has been accomplished reviewed and approved by Group.
in 2016 to re-focus the Company on safety and strengthen the culture Re-dedicate business to zero harm HS&E culture of zero harm.
For example, AsPac have trialled innovative training and implement necessary changes to effect change.
for Musculoskeltal Disorder Prevention and Resilience, and Mental Deliver consistent measures across the Group, and a Health First Aid to improve workplace injury prevention.
In the UK, a reduction in accident rates.
new HSE call centre service was developed to coordinate reporting accidents, incidents and near misses.
In terms of the Transformation Deliver agreed Transformation Plan to continue to Plan, savings delivered exceeded targets set at the start of the year: improve quality and efficiency of internal shared there is clear evidence of transformation taking place in all Shared services and achieve savings targets to ensure Services Procurement, HR, IT and Finance.
Based on Eds achievement sustained competitiveness of the business.
the Committee has awarded above target but below maximum performance for the non-financial element relating to these objectives.
Performance Share Plan PSP The LTI amount included in the 2016 single total figure of remuneration includes the element of the PSP award which was awarded in 2014, vesting subject to EPS performance in the period to 31 December 2016.
Achievement against the measure is shown in the table below: Threshold Maximum Percentage of Performance condition Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Actual max achieved Adjusted EPS.
25% of the award vests for 1 6 22p 26p 7.07p 0% threshold performance, rising on a straightline basis to 100% at maximum performance.
The awards made to the Executive Directors subject to this performance condition were as follows: No of No of shares shares Value of 2014 PSP share awards Date of grant awarded vesting Vesting date vesting Rupert Soames 27 June 2014 96,066 0 27 June 2017 0 Ed Casey 27 June 2014 70,558 0 27 June 2017 0 Angus Cockburn 31 October 2014 60,891 0 31 October 2017 0 115 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Single Figure Non-Executive Directors' remuneration audited information Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of cash fees paid monthly with increments for positions of additional responsibility.
In addition, an inter-continental travel allowance and reasonable travel and related business expenses are paid.
No bonuses are paid to Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors fees are not performance-related.
The fees and terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed on an annual basis, taking into consideration market practice and are approved by the Board.
5,000 is payable for each occasion that requires inter-continental travel outside of the Directors country of residence.
Taxable benefits in 2016 relate to taxable travel and subsistence expenses reimbursed in connection with attendance at Board meetings 2015 nil.
Roy Gardner also received secretarial services in 2016 of 21,600 14,400 in 2015.
Sir Roy Gardner is Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a Member of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Mike Clasper is Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a Member of Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk Committees.
Tamara Ingram was a Member of the Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Committees.
She stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2016.
Rachel Lomax is Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and a Member of Audit Committee.
Angie Risley is Chairman of Remuneration Committee and a Member of Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Malcolm Wyman was Chairman of Audit Committee and a Member of the Group Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He stepped down from the Board on 31 October 2016.
John Rishton joined the Board on 13 September 2016 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Member of the Remuneration Committee and Group Risk Committees.
116 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Annual NED fees Base fee Base fee 1 April 2016 1 April 2015 Percentage Role change Chairman 250,000 250,000 No change Senior Independent Director 25,000 25,000 No change Board fees 50,000 50,000 No change Audit Committee Chairmanship 12,500 12,500 No change Audit Committee Membership 5,000 5,000 No change Group Risk Committee previously Corporate 15,000 15,000 No change Responsibility & Risk Committee Chairmanship Group Risk Committee previously Corporate 8,000 8,000 No change Responsibility & Risk Committee Membership Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 10,000 10,000 No change Remuneration Committee Membership 5,000 5,000 No change Allowance for travel to international meetings 5,000 5,000 No change No additional fee is payable for Chair or Members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee or NominationCommittee.
Performance graph and table This graph shows the value as at 31 December 2016, of a 100 investment in Serco on 31 December 2008 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index on the same date.
It has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30- day period up to and including that date.
The Company chose the FTSE 250 index as the comparator for this graph as Serco has been a constituent of that index throughout the period.
Serco Performance Graph 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Serco FTSE 250 Index 117 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued CEOs pay in last eight financial years Annual bonus outcome LTI vesting outcome CEO single figure as % of maximum as % of maximum Year ended 31 December Group CEO remuneration opportunity opportunity 2009 Christopher Hyman 3,625,830 90% 295.42% 2010 Christopher Hyman 2,646,894 91% 168.77% 2011 Christopher Hyman 2,826,038 81% 80% 2012 Christopher Hyman 2,582,185 72% 63.60% 2013 Christopher Hyman 893,451 N A 0% Ed Casey 294,782 74% 0% 2014 Ed Casey 1,605,064 71% 0% Rupert Soames 747,655 0% N A 1 2015 Rupert Soames 2,255,493 87% 100% 2016 Rupert Soames 2,216,566 82% 23.6% 1.
Rupert Soames had a non-performance recruitment award which vested in full in 2015.
Percentage change in CEOs remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the salary, benefits and bonus of the CEO compared to that for the average UK employee.
The UK employee sub-set of the Companys global employee population has been chosen as the group which provides the most appropriate comparator: this comprises some 23,000 of the 47,520 employees Serco employs worldwide.
Inflation and local pay practices form a key driver in the salary and benefits provided in each location, and as the CEO is based in the UK we have chosen employees within the same country.
2 Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 0% 34% -5% 1 3 Average change for all other UK employees 3.23% -3% 44% 1.
This represents the change in pay for employees employed throughout the period to exclude the impact of changes in the mix of our employee population.
The nature of benefits provided to employees in 2016 compared to 2015 remains the same.
The percentage change represents a reduction in the cost to the Company of the benefits over the period.
The increase in CEOs benefits, although a high percentage, relates to a 6,100 increase in taxable benefits, representing 0.2% of his total pay.
The bonus element is shown for those employees eligible for such payments.
These are calculated each year in March, after the publication of the Remuneration Report, so the figures shown here for employees are for bonuses paid in 2016, related to the 2015 performance, whereas the figure for the CEO relates to a calculation of the bonus earned, but not yet paid, related to performance in 2016.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below details the percentage change in dividends and overall expenditure on pay compared with the previous financial year.
Serco considers overall expenditure on staff pay in the context of the general finances of the Company.
This includes the determination of the annual salary increase budget, the annual grant of shares and annual bonus for the business.
2016 vs 2015 2016 2015 Dividend per share 0% nil nil Overall expenditure on wages and salaries -0.5% 1,516.0 1,523.3 Dividend per share, and Overall expenditure on wages and salaries have the same meaning as in the Notes to the Company Financial Statements.
118 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Pensions audited information As at 31 December 2016, there were no Executive Directors actively participating in or accruing additional entitlement in the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a defined benefits scheme.
Payments for loss of office audited information There were no loss of office payments in 2016.
Payments to Past Directors audited information No payments were made in the year to past Directors.
Awards made in 2016 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP audited information The table below summarises the Matching Share Awards granted to Executive Directors in 2016 in relation to their participation in the DBP.
Executive Directors received a Matching Share Award in the form of a conditional share award on a 2:1 basis in respect of their gross bonus deferred i. e. for every one Investment Share that could have been purchased from the gross bonus deferred, two Matching Shares are granted.
Matching Share Awards granted in 2016 vest subject to Aggregate EPS over the three year performance period ending 31 December 2018.
25% of the Matching Share Award will vest for threshold performance Aggregate EPS of 7.5p, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for maximum performance Aggregate EPS of 9.1p or above.
The definition of EPS is Statutory Earnings Per Share before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis.
Market Percentage Basis price at Face vesting at of Award award value threshold Number Performance 1 2 Directors % salary Grant date p performance of shares period end date Rupert Soames 130% 03 May 2016 95.5 1,103,129 25% 1,154,540 31 December 2018 Angus Cockburn 112% 03 May 2016 95.5 562,380 25% 588,589 31 December 2018 1.
Closing share price on 3 May 2016.
Calculated using the closing share price on the date of grant.
Pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback is applicable to these awards.
119 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Performance Share Plan PSP audited information In 2016 the Executive Directors received awards equivalent to 200% of salary for the CEO and COO and 175% for the CFO.
The awards will vest at the end of the performance period, if the Executive Directors are still in employment with Serco and to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
Performance Weighting Performance measure of measure Performance target period end date Aggregate EPS 1 3rd Statutory Earnings Per Share EPS before 31 December 2018 exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis of 7.5p threshold, 25% vesting to 9.1p maximum, 100% vesting, measured as an aggregate over the three-year performanceperiod.
Relative TSR 1 3rd Total Shareholder Return TSR of median 30 days following the threshold, 25% vesting to upper quartile announcement of the maximum, 100% vesting when ranked relative to Companys 2018 results.
companies in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts, measured from the 30-day period following the announcement of the Companys 2015 results to the 30-day period following announcement of the Companys 2018 results.
Average ROIC 1 3rd Pre-tax Return on Invested Capital ROIC of 8.4% 31 December 2018 threshold, 25% vesting to 10.2% maximum, 100% vesting, measured as an average over the threeyear performance period.
The structure for vesting is the same for all measures and no shares vest where performance is below Threshold.
Each element of the PSP award is subject to a post-vesting holding requirement that takes the total term of the award i. e. performance period plus holding period to a minimum of five years.
Pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback is also applicable to these awards.
Market Percentage Type of Basis of price at Face vesting at Performance interest award award value threshold Number period end 1 2 3 Directors awarded % salary Grant date p performance of shares date Rupert Nominal 200% 06 April '16 96.05 1,700,000 25% 1,769,911 See above Soames Cost Option Angus Nominal 175% 06 April '16 96.05 875,000 25% 910,983 See above Cockburn Cost Option Ed Conditional 175% 06 April '16 96.05 1,314,717 25% 1,368,783 See above Casey Share Award 1.
Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn received grants in the form of nominal cost options with a 2 pence per share exercise price.
Due to US tax treatment of discounted options Ed Casey's award was made in the form of a conditional share award.
Closing share price on 5 April 2016.
Calculated using the closing share price on the day immediately prior to the grant date.
120 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Statement of voting at the general meeting At the previous AGMs, votes on the Remuneration Report were cast as follows: For % Against % Withheld % Number Number Number 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 96.68% 3.32 N A 814,337,337 27,947,300 610,006 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration 98.87% 1.13% N A 760,294,709 8,671,241 24,080 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration 99.61% 0.39% N A 367,080,126 1,442,674 2,302,116 2013 Remuneration Policy 98.08% 1.92% N A 358,418,242 7,033,412 5,373,262 2012 Remuneration Report 95.82% 4.18% N A 346,071,397 15,084,901 5,923,160 2011 Remuneration Report 93.72% 6.28% N A 351,474,463 23,547,217 8,299,355 Note: A 'Vote Withheld' is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes 'For' or 'Against' a Resolution.
External appointments The Board believes that the Group can benefit from its Executive Directors holding appropriate Non-Executive Directorships of companies or independent bodies.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Board.
Fees are retained by the Executive Director concerned.
During the year, Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn served as Non-Executive Directors of Electrocomponents plc and GKN plc respectively.
Rupert Soames stepped down as a Non-Executive Director of Electrocomponents plc on 20 July 2016.
Ed Casey served as a Director of Talen Energy Corporation until 6 December 2016 when he stepped down as a Non-Executive Director of this company.
Fees payable in the year were 31,369, 60,000 and USD105,000 plus deferred stock with a face value of USD130,000 respectively.
No other fee-paying external positions were held by the Executive Directors.
121 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Directors shareholding and share interests audited information Current shareholdings are summarised in the table below.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 143.3p per share at 31 December 2016.
5 Number of Shares Share options shares owned Total share outright including interests at 31 Share connected persons Not December 2016 ownership at 31 December Subject to subject to Subject to Not subject to requirements 2016 or date of performance performance performance performance 1 2 3 4 6 Name % of salary resignation conditions conditions conditions conditions Rupert Soames 200% 1,066,603 1,812,828 58,988 3,972,972 6,911,391 Ed Casey 150% 125,840 2,676,619 2,802,459 Angus Cockburn 150% 336,857 588,589 65,748 2,197,194 3,188,388 Roy Gardner N A 45,000 N A N A N A 45,000 Mike Clasper N A 56,000 N A N A N A 56,000 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr N A N A N A N A Tamara Ingram N A N A N A N A Rachel Lomax N A 40,000 N A N A N A 40,000 Angie Risley N A 20,508 N A N A N A 20,508 Malcolm Wyman N A N A N A N A John Rishton N A N A N A N A 1.
Rupert Soames has met his contractual shareholding investment of 200% of salary by the second anniversary of appointment.
Angus Cockburn has invested 25% on joining Serco and is on track to have invested 150% of salary by the third anniversary of appointment.
Despite this, based on the share price at 31 December 2016, neither Rupert nor Angus have met their shareholding guidelines as set out above.
Ed Casey has not met his shareholding guideline.
Includes shares owned by connected persons.
There were no changes in Directors interests in the period 1 January 2017 and the date of this report.
Includes awards made to Ed Casey under the Performance Share Plan and awards made to Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
All awards are in the form of conditional share awards.
These are the special recruitment awards that were made to Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn in compensation for  awards that were forfeited in connection with them joining Serco as disclosed in the 2014 DRR.
These awards are in the form of conditional share awards.
All options are in the form of nominal cost options subject to a 2 pence per share exercise price.
There are no interests in the form of share options that are not subject to performance conditions, nor are there any share options that are vested but unexercised and no share options were exercised during the year.
Includes awards under the Performance Share Plan and the special recruitment awards that were made to Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn in compensation for performance-based awards that were forfeited in connection with them joining Serco as disclosed in the 2014 DRR.
These are all nominal cost options with a 2 pence per share exercise price.
122 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other shareholding information Shareholder dilution Awards granted under the Company share plans are met either by the issue of new shares or by shares held in trust when awards vest.
The Committee monitors the number of shares issued under its various share plans and their impact on dilution limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Investment Association formerly the ABI in respect of all share plans is 10% in any rolling ten-year period and in respect of discretionary share plans is 5% in any rolling ten-year period.
Based on the Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2016, our dilution level was within these limits.
The Group has an employee share ownership trust which is administered by an independent trustee and which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet various obligations under the share plans.
The Trust held 10,540,181 and 9,864,986 ordinary shares at 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 respectively.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee determines the overall Remuneration Policy for senior management and the individual remuneration of the Directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
This includes the base salary, bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and terms of employment including those terms on which service may be terminated.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Committee, a copy of which can be found on the Groups website, are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Details of the Directors attendance at meetings of the Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 78.
Members of the Committee All members of the Committee are independent.
Non-Executive Directors of the Group are initially appointed for a three-year term, and that appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
123 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Committee members and attendees The Committee met five times during 2016.
Remuneration Committee members during 2016 Position Comments Angie Risley Chairman of Remuneration Committee from 14 May 2012 Roy Gardner Member from 1 June 2015 Malcolm Wyman Member from 1 January 2013 Resigned from the Board on 31 October 2016 Tamara Ingram Member from 3 March 2014 Resigned from the Board on 31 July 2016 Mike Clasper Member from 1 August 2016 Joined as an interim member in 2016 John Rishton Member from 13 September 2016 Joined the Board on 13 September 2016 Remuneration Committee attendees during the year Position Comments Rupert Soames CEO Attended by invitation Ed Casey COO Attended by invitation Angus Cockburn CFO Attended by invitation Geoff Lloyd Group HR Director Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the Remuneration Policy Tara Gonzalez Group HR Director, Reward Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the Remuneration Policy David Eveleigh Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as the secretary to the Committee Steve Williams Deputy Company Secretary Attends as the secretary to the Committee until June 2016 Rebecca Dunn from June 2016 No person is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration arrangements.
124 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Summary of the Committees activities during the financial year Meeting Regular items Ad hoc items February Considered base pay of Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee: considered previous years performance against targets and confirmation of any bonus payable: review of achievement of performance conditions for the LTI vesting in respect of awards made in 2013: set performance targets and objectives for 2016: review the draft of the 2015 Remuneration Report.
March Reviewed and approved the performance measures for the Considered the feedback from LTI awards for 2016 awards and agree grant policy.
May Considered requirement for review of comparator groups for Reviewed wider employee benchmarking packages: considered timing of future Policy arrangements and conditions Review aligned to current status of business transformation.
August Briefing on market trends and Corporate Governance update: update on in-flight share awards.
December Reviewed performance of the Executive Directors against bonus objectives: reviewed proposed approach to structure of the Remuneration Report: reviewed Committee Terms of Reference: reviewed the Committees annual programme of work.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee has been advised during the year by  LLP PwC.
PwC were selected as advisers to the Committee through a competitive tendering process in 2012 and no conflicts of interest were identified.
PwC have provided advice throughout the year mainly around the following key executive reward areas: Advice on the review of Remuneration Policy.
Support in reviewing the Directors' Remuneration Report.
Informing the Committee on market practice and governance issues.
Assistance with general and technical reward queries.
The advisers attended each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Consulting services have also been provided to the Group by PwC in relation to pay and benefits data.
Fees paid to PwC as advisers to the Committee during the year totalled 39,500, fees are charged on an hourly rate basis.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which oversees the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee considers the views of the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the other members of the Executive Committee.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 22 February 2017 125
