OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section describes the Groups proposed remuneration policy for Directors which, if approved, will apply for up to three years from the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The overarching principles of our remuneration policy are to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay that will enable the Group to ensure it has executives with the right skills and experience to drive the success of the Company, and that their remuneration is linked to shareholder interests and the Companys long-term success.
Our remuneration philosophy is: to promote the long-term success of the Company, with stretching performance targets which are rigorously applied to provide appropriate alignment between the Companys strategic goals, shareholder returns and executive reward to have a competitive mix of base salary and short and long-term incentives, with an appropriate proportion of the package determined by stretching targets linked to the Companys performance Executive Directors fixed and variable remuneration arrangements have been determined taking into account: the role, experience in the role, and performance of the Executive Director the location in which the Executive Director is working remuneration arrangements at UK listed companies of a similar size and complexity remuneration arrangements at US high-technology companies of a similar size and complexity, including companies with which the Company competes for talent best practice guidelines for UK listed companies set by institutional investor bodies FUTURE POLICY TABLE The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary To attract and retain Base salaries are reviewed Executive Directors salary Individual and Group performance talent of the right calibre annually, with reference increases will normally be in is taken into account when and with the ability to to individual performance, line with those for the wider determining appropriate contribute to strategy, by Group performance, market employee population.
ensuring base salaries are competitiveness, salary increases higher salary increases may be competitive in the relevant across the Group and the position made where there is a change talent market.
holders experience, competence in role or responsibilities or a and criticality to the business.
Any increases are generally effective from 1 July.
54 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Pension Provide post-retirement Pension contributions are provided, The CEO currently receives a None.
benefits for participants in with a choice of funding vehicles: matching contribution of up to a cost-efficient manner.
US 401 k savings plan for all US 3 percent of salary under his employees or group personal US 401 k savings plan, subject pension scheme.
to the applicable maximum contribution US$24,000 for FY16.
The CFO receives up to 5 percent of salary as a contribution to a group personal pension scheme.
Other than in exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate pension benefits as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 20 percent of base salary.
Benefits To provide competitive Benefits currently include the There is no overall maximum None.
provision of medical and dental value set out for benefits.
insurance, life and disability They are set at a level that is insurance, travel insurance, comparable to market practice personal tax return preparation, and appropriate for individual and car allowance.
Reasonable relocation, travel The Committee retains the and subsistence allowances and, discretion to amend benefits in certain circumstances, cash in exceptional circumstances allowances in respect of the or in circumstances where associated tax charge and other factors outside of the Groups benefits may be provided based on control have materially individual circumstances.
changed e. g. increases in insurance premiums.
Variable pay Annual bonus Aims to focus executives Performance measures and targets are The maximum bonus The annual bonus will be based on on achieving stretching set prior to or shortly after the start of opportunity for Executive achievement of stretching financial the relevant financial period.
Directors will be up to 200 targets e. g. billings, cash EBITDA financial targets relevant to the business priorities percent of salary.
At the end of the financial period, for the financial period.
Personal performance will have a the Remuneration Committee will Up to 50 percent of maximum weighting of no more than a third.
determine the extent to which the will vest for target performance.
Details of the measures used targets have been achieved.
The Committee may award up during the period under review are to 12.5 percent of maximum for Awards are typically delivered in set out on page 60. threshold performance.
cash, however the Committee has discretion to defer awards in cash The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus or in shares.
outcome downwards or upwards The Committee has discretion to with shareholder consultation reduce the bonus in the event of within the limits of the plan, to serious financial misstatement or ensure alignment of pay with misconduct.
In extreme cases of the underlying performance of misconduct, the Committee may the business.
claw back annual bonus payments previously made.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-term incentive plan LTIP Aligns the interests The plan provides for annual awards Awards may be made up to a Performance-based awards will of executives with of restricted shares, options and maximum of 500 percent of vest on achievement of financial shareholders in growing performance shares to eligible salary in normal circumstances performance measures, measured the value of the business participants.
Other than for and up to 750 percent in over a three-year performance over the long-term.
restricted shares, vesting is based exceptional circumstances period, which may include profit on three-year performance.
including, but not limited measures and billings.
The Committee has discretion to Performance-based awards: profit The award size is reviewed in reduce any unvested long-term will receive a weighting of at advance of grant.
incentive awards, or to vary the least 50%.
Other measures may opportunities for future awards, No performance-based awards be considered in future years to in the case of serious financial will vest below threshold.
Up help capture the strategic goals of misstatement or misconduct.
In to 25 percent of each element the business and may be used in extreme cases of misconduct, the will vest for achievement of conjunction with these metrics.
Committee may claw back vested threshold performance under Time-based awards: restricted long-term incentive awards.
each metric, then increase shares will begin vesting after one on a straight-line basis to Participants are eligible to receive year, and thereafter vest in equal full vesting for achieving cash or shares equal to the value instalments on a quarterly basis until stretch performance.
of dividends that would have been the fourth anniversary of grant based paid over the vesting period on It is anticipated that no more on continued employment only.
than 25 percent of aggregate The Committee has discretion to awards in any one year will adjust the formulaic LTIP award be over restricted shares downwards or upwards with or options.
shareholder consultation, within the limits of the plan, to ensure alignment of pay with the underlying performance of the business.
Other Arrangements Shareholding guidelines To align directors interests Executive Directors are required to n a n a with the long-term retain a minimum shareholding in the interests of shareholders.
Company, and are required to retain at least 50 percent of shares vesting after tax under the LTIP until the shareholding guideline has been met.
Further details of the level of shareholding guideline currently in operation are set out on page 64.
All-employee schemes To encourage share SAYE and ESPP schemes are Participation is capped at the None ownership across the operated by the Company for prevailing approved limit at the workforce.
eligible employees, in which time eligible employees are Executive Directors may participate invited to participate, or such on the same terms.
lower limit as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors fees To reflect the time Annual fee for Chairman.
Any increases to Non-Executive None commitment in preparing Director fees will be considered Annual base fee for Non-Executive for and attending as a result of the outcome of a Directors.
meetings, the duties and review process and taking into Additional fees paid to the responsibilities of the account wider market factors, Chairmen of Board Committees.
role and the contribution e. g. inflation.
There is no Additional fees may be paid if expected from the Nonprescribed individual there is a material increase in time Executive Directors.
Further details are set out on Non-Executive Directors do not page 62. participate in any incentive schemes, nor do they receive any pension or benefits other than nominal travel expenses and, in certain circumstances, cash allowances in respect of the associated tax charge.
56 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Cash EBITDA and billings are considered to be the best measures of the Groups annual performance given our current size and stage of growth, and will continue to determine annual bonus vesting.
The Committee will keep this under review, and may select alternative measures as the Group evolves and strategic priorities change.
Annual bonus targets will be selected prior to, or shortly after, the start of the financial period.
Financial targets will be calibrated with reference to the Groups budget for the upcoming financial period and the Groups performance over the prior financial period.
Threshold and stretch performance levels for performance-based awards under the LTIP will be set at the start of the three-year performance period.
The Committee aims to set stretching but achievable targets, taking account of a range of reference points, including market consensus and the Groups strategic plan.
Differences in remuneration policy operated for other employees Other employee remuneration has the same components as set out in the policy, being base salary, annual bonus, long-term incentive participation, pension, life assurance and benefit provision.
Annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements share a similar structure and pay-out arrangement, although the mix between performance-based and time-based awards, and the maximum award, varies by seniority and role.
Other In addition to the above elements of remuneration, any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the approval and implementation of the policy detailed in this report will be honoured, this includes awards made to Directors both Executive and NonExecutive prior to IPO.
PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
The potential reward opportunities illustrated are based on the policy which will apply, if approved, from the AGM on 14 September 2016, applied to the base salaries in force at 1 April 2016.
The projected value of LTIP amounts excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
The assumptions made in illustrating potential reward opportunities are shown in the table below: LTIP  scenario Fixed pay Annual bonus based awards LTIP time-based awards Minimum No annual bonus payable.
Threshold not achieved Salary as at most recent review date.
On target annual Performance warrants Target bonus payable threshold vesting Full vesting Benefits and pension value as for the most Maximum annual bonus Performance warrants Maximum recent financial period.
payable full vesting Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer $000 000 Maximum Maximum 13% 25% 62% 17% 24% 59% 5,449 1,819 Target Target 25% 25% 50% 32% 23% 45% 2,732 953 Minimum Minimum 100% 100% 693 303 Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 APPROACH TO REMUNERATION FOR NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Maximum opportunity Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined based on the experience and skills n a of the individual, relevant market data and their current basic salary.
Pension Membership of pension scheme or salary supplement on a similar basis to other In line with executives, as described in the policy table.
Other than in exceptional cases such as Policy Table.
to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate pension benefits as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 20 percent of base salary.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the policy which may n a include but are not limited to car allowance, medical insurance and life insurance.
Annual bonus The structure described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant 200 percent of maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on similar terms as other Up to 750 percent executives, as described in the policy table.
All-employee New appointees may be eligible to participate in all-employee schemes on the same basis In line with schemes as other employees.
In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
In addition to the remuneration arrangements set out above, the Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, using Listing Rule 9.4.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The fair value of any buyout will not exceed that of the award being foregone.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the approach will be consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Board level, the Group will continue to honour these arrangements.
Incentive opportunities for below Board employees are no higher than for Executive Directors, but measures may vary.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 55.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Non-Executive Directors The appointments of each of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are for a fixed term of three years, commencing on 11 June 2015 and subject to annual re-election by the Company at the AGM.
Their letters of appointment set out the terms of their appointment and are available for inspection upon request.
They are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus, nor do they receive any additional pension or benefits other than nominal travel expenses on top of the fees disclosed on page 62.
Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated at any time upon written notice or in accordance with the articles and receive no compensation on termination.
Non-Executive Director Role Appointment date Term of appointment Peter Gyenes Chairman 11 June 2015 Three years Paul Walker Senior Independent Director 11 June 2015 Three years Steve Munford Non-Executive Director 11 June 2015 Three years Sandra Bergeron Independent 11 June 2015 Three years Non-Executive Director Edwin Gillis Independent 11 June 2015 Three years Non-Executive Director Salim Nathoo Non-Executive Director 11 June 2015 Three years Roy Mackenzie Non-Executive Director 11 June 2015 Three years 58 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Executive Directors On 11 June 2015, each of the Executive Directors entered into a service agreement with the Company.
Executive Director Role Contract date Notice period Kris Hagerman Chief Executive Officer 11 June 2015 12 months Nick Bray Chief Financial Officer 11 June 2015 12 months The Employer is entitled to terminate an Executive Directors employment by payment of a cash sum in lieu of notice, equal to i the basic salary that would have been payable, and ii the cost that would have been incurred in providing the Executive Director with medical insurance benefits for any unexpired portion of the notice period the Payment in Lieu.
The Company can alternatively choose to continue providing the medical insurance benefits under item ii instead of paying a cash sum representing their cost.
The Payment in Lieu will be paid in monthly instalments over the notice period.
In specified circumstances not involving a change of control, in which case the severance payment applicable is as described below, each Executive Director is entitled to terminate his employment without notice and receive a severance payment.
The severance payment will be equal to the Payment in Lieu and paid in a single lump sum.
The specified circumstances are where either: a the Employer terminates or gives notice to terminate the Executive Directors employment without cause: or b the Executive Director terminates his employment in response to: a material diminution of his authority, duties, responsibilities or status in a manner inconsistent with his service agreement: a breach of a fundamental term of his service agreement: a material reduction in his annual basic salary or target bonus opportunity: or being required to relocate his place of work beyond a specified distance each a Good Leaver Reason.
Each Executive Director is entitled to a severance payment, paid in a single lump sum, in the event of a termination of his employment by his Employer without cause or by the Executive Director for a Good Leaver Reason at any time during a period ending 18 months after any change of control of the Company whether by way of a general offer or a scheme of arrangement or compromise and beginning three months prior to the announcement of such general offer or scheme of arrangement or compromise.
The severance payment will be equal to the sum of: i 150 percent of the Executive Directors annual basic salary: ii 150 percent of the Executive Directors target bonus for the Companys financial year in which the termination occurs: and iii the total cost of providing the Executive Director with the benefits including pension contributions to which he is entitled under his service agreement for a period of 12 months.
The Companys policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the executives contractual terms, the circumstances of termination and any duty to mitigate.
The table below summarises how incentives are typically treated in different circumstances: Reason for leaving Treatment Bonus Summary dismissal, resignation Awards lapse.
Good leaver Eligible for an award to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied, pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served, with Committee discretion to treat otherwise.
Change of control Eligible for an award to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied up to the change of control, pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year served, with Committee discretion to treat otherwise.
Executives may be eligible for an enhanced bonus payment in the case of termination of employment within 18 months of a change of control, as described above.
Long-term incentives Summary dismissal, resignation Awards lapse.
Good leaver Outstanding awards will normally be pro-rated to the date of leaving, with Committee discretion to treat otherwise and with discretion to either test at end of relevant performance periods, or immediately assess, whether or not relevant performance criteria have been met.
Change of control Outstanding awards will normally vest and be tested for performance over the period to change-ofcontrol, and be pro-rated for time based on the proportion of the period served, with Committee discretion to treat otherwise.
Executives may be eligible for additional vesting in the case of termination of employment within 18 months of a change of control.
All-employee schemes Treated in line with applicable scheme rules OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman, provided that such appointments do not prejudice the executives ability to fulfil their duties for the Group.
Any fees for outside appointments would normally be retained by the Director.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN GROUP The Committee takes into account the general basic salary increase being offered to employees elsewhere in the Group when annually reviewing the salary increases and remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Employees have not been consulted in respect of the design of the Groups senior executive remuneration policy.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee takes shareholder feedback into careful consideration when reviewing remuneration and regularly reviews the Remuneration policy in the context of key institutional shareholder guidelines and best practice.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to making any major changes to its executive remuneration structure.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The following section provides details of remuneration outcomes for the financial year-ended 31 March 2016 for Executive Directors who served at Sophos during the year, and how the Remuneration policy will be implemented in FY17.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: determine and monitor the Remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior executives it is designated to consider: ensure that the Remuneration policy and reward decisions that support business strategy and sustainable long-term performance: set specific remuneration packages which include salary, annual bonus, share incentives, pension and benefits: review the Executive Directors service contracts: review remuneration trends across the Group: and approve employee share-based incentive plans and associated performance conditions and targets.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which are reviewed regularly, are set out on the Companys website.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised the following Non-Executive Directors: Paul Walker Committee Chairman, Peter Gyenes, Sandra Bergeron, Edwin Gillis.
In FY16, the Committee met three times.
Attendance by individual Committee members is reported in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 42.
Only Committee members have the right to attend Committee meetings.
The Chairman of the Board if he is not a member of the Committee, CEO, HR Director, and Company Secretary who acts as Committee secretary attend the Committees meetings by invitation, but are not present when their own remuneration is discussed.
"EXTERNAL ADVISERS Kepler a brand of Mercer ""Kepler"", independent remuneration consultants appointed by the Committee in FY16, after consultation with the Board, continued to act as the remuneration adviser to the Committee during the year."
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman, and is a signatory to and abides by the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work carried out for the Remuneration Committee in FY16 totalled 30,625.
Other than advice on remuneration, no other services were provided by Kepler or any other part of the MMC Group of companies to the Company.
The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Kepler remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Kepler is independent.
60 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each Executive Director who served during the year-ended 31 March 2016 and the prior year: Kris Hagerman $000 Nick Bray 000 2015 2016 2015 2016 1 Salary 665 676 276 276 2 Taxable benefits 16 8 10 13 3 Pension 8 9 14 14 4 Single-year variable 1,015 788 336 255 5 Restricted Stock Units 9,173 2,531 5 Multi-year variable 7,973 1,473 Total 1,704 18,627 636 4,562 1.
Amount earned in respect of the year 2.
T axable benefits include: Kris Hagerman: Car allowance FY16: $3K, 2015: $16K and health insurance: Nick Bray: Health insurance, critical illness and car allowance FY16 and FY15: 10K 3.
The Companys pension contributions during the year of up to 3 percent and 5 percent of salary for Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray, respectively 4.
Bonus payment for performance during the year 5.
RSUs: The face value at grant of time-based RSU: Multi-year: The embedded value on date of vesting of performance-based options that vested on IPO BASE SALARY During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray, who were each awarded an increase of 3 percent, effective 1 July 2016.
The salaries of the Executive Directors are as follows: Executive Director 1 July 2015 1 July 2016 Increase % Kris Hagerman $679,000 $700,000 3 Nick Bray 275,785 284,000 3 PENSION AND BENEFITS Kris Hagerman receives medical and dental insurance, travel insurance, life and disability insurance, a reimbursement of up to US$10,000 per annum for the preparation of his tax returns and, under his Employers standard US 401 k savings plan for all US employees, is entitled to receive a matching contribution of up to three percent of his salary, subject to any annual maximum contribution applicable to US 401 k savings plans from time to time.
For 2016, this annual maximum is US$24,000.
Nick Bray is entitled to receive up to five percent of his base salary as a contribution to a group personal pension scheme.
He also receives an annual car allowance of 10,000 paid monthly, life insurance, private medical and critical illness insurance, travel insurance, personal accident insurance, and employee assistance programme arrangements.
ANNUAL BONUS FOR FY16 The Group operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme for a number of senior executives including Executive Directors.
Bonus opportunities for FY16 were 196 percent of salary for Kris Hagerman and 156 percent of salary for Nick Bray.
Target bonus was 50% of the maximum opportunity.
The level of annual bonus earned in any one year is based on Group performance against predetermined financial targets for the year and personal performance.
In FY16, the bonus was based 80 percent on billings and cash EBITDA, with 12.5 percent of maximum vesting for threshold performance and 50 percent for target performance, and 20 percent on personal performance.
No bonus is awarded for performance below the threshold.
The financial element payout is based on the lower of the implied payouts for billings and cash EBITDA.
The Company exceeded the targets for both financial measures, and the bonus outcome was therefore 58 percent of maximum for the financial element.
After taking into account personal performance, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray will receive bonuses of 116 percent and 92 percent of salary, respectively.
All of the bonus in respect of FY16 will be paid in cash.
The Committee believes that disclosing financial performance targets in respect of the annual bonus for FY16 in the report would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage to its international and privately held competitors, which are not subject to similar disclosure requirements.
Given the close link between financial performance targets and the Companys longer term strategy, targets are not disclosed in this report but will be disclosed in the annual report for the year-ending 31 March 2017.
"OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN As included in the IPO prospectus, on 7 August 2015, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray were granted awards in connection with the IPO under the Sophos Group Long-term Incentive Plan 2015 ""LTIP"" in the form of restricted share units ""RSU"" : details are provided in the table below."
Awards made Reference price Face value of 1 Executive Director Date of award during the year of award award 000 Kris Hagerman 7 August 2015 1,966,292 225p 4,424 Nick Bray 7 August 2015 842,697 225p 1,896 1.
As disclosed in the IPO prospectus, the one-off IPO awards were granted with reference to the IPO price of 225p The awards are not subject to future performance conditions, and will vest over five years, with 20 percent of the awards vesting on 7 August 2016 and the remainder vesting on a quarterly basis thereafter until 7 August 2020.
"On 7 August 2015, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray were granted further awards under the LTIP in the form of restricted share units and performance share units ""PSU"" : details are provided in the table below."
Face value of Awards made Reference price Face value of award % of 1 Executive Director Date of award Type of award during the year of award award 000 salary Kris Hagerman RSU 238,764 225p 537 124 PSU 716,292 225p 1,612 373 7 August 2015 Nick Bray RSU 112,359 225p 253 92 PSU 337,079 225p 758 275 1.
The first annual awards under the LTIP were granted with reference to the IPO price of 225p The RSU awards are not subject to future performance conditions, and will vest over four years, with 25 percent of the awards vesting on 7 August 2016 and the remainder vesting on a quarterly basis thereafter until 7 August 2019.
The PSU awards vest subject to the average vesting outcome implied by performance against annual targets over the three years to the financial year-ended 31 March 2018.
Targets for the three years are set at the start of the performance period.
For FY16 awards, vesting was based on the lower of the implied payouts for billings and cash EBITDA, with 25 percent vesting for threshold performance, 100 percent for stretch performance, with up to an additional 25 percent vesting for performance between a super stretch target and maximum target.
No awards will vest for performance below the threshold.
The Committee believes that disclosing annual financial performance targets for FY16, FY17 and FY18 in this report would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage to its international and privately held competitors, which are not subject to similar disclosure requirements.
Given the close link between financial performance targets and the Companys longer term strategy targets are not disclosed in this report but will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration following the end of the performance period.
LTIP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director who served during the year-ended 31 March 2016 and the prior year: 1 2 Base fee $000 Additional fees $000 Other $000 Total $000 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Peter Gyenes 150 230 4 150 234 Sandra Bergeron 45 129 45 129 Edwin Gillis 120 12 132 Roy Mackenzie Steve Munford 154 147 4,642 154 4,789 Salim Nathoo Paul Walker 120 21 290 290 141 1.
Additional fees relate to fees for chairing Board Committees 2.
P aul Walker: Restricted share agreement entered into in advance of the IPO over 190,694 restricted shares that vest in three equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversaries of 27 March 2015: they are valued at face value on the date of grant.
Steve Munford: The embedded value on date of vesting of performance-based options.
62 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN YEAR AUDITED No exit payments were made to Directors in FY16.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to past Directors in FY16.
REMUNERATION FOR FY17 Base salary Salaries for Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray, effective from 1 July 2016, will be $700,000 and 284,000 respectively.
This equates to an increase of 3 percent, which is in line with average increase awarded to the broader employee population of c. 3 percent.
Pension and benefits In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Executive Directors will receive pension contributions of 3-5 percent of salary.
They will also receive benefits in line with the policy.
Annual bonus For the year-ending 31 March 2017, the Committee will operate the annual bonus using the same framework and measures as used in FY16.
Billings and cash EBITDA targets have been set by the Committee and will require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance to achieve full payout.
Given the close link between these targets and Sophos competitive strategy, these financial targets are considered commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance, but will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in next years Annual Report on Remuneration to the extent that the Committee determines that the targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
100 percent of the bonus will be paid in cash.
Bonus payments are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Long-term incentive plan In FY17, the Committee intends to grant long-term incentive awards to Executive Directors in line with the stated remuneration policy and using the same measures as were used in FY16 see above.
Awards will be made over performance share units at least 75 percent of the total award and restricted shares, within the normal policy limits.
Full details of the awards will be set out in the Annual Report for the year-ended 31 March 2017.
Non-Executive Director fees including the Chairman With effect from admission, the fees payable to the Chairman of the Board and other Non-Executive Directors NEDs are as follows: Fee p. a.
Chairman of the Board $250,000 NED base fee $150,000 Additional fees: Audit & Risk Committee Chairman $15,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman $10,000 Nominations Committee Chairman $5,000 Senior Independent Director $15,000 Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the CEOs remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees.
To provide a meaningful comparison, the analysis is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the FY16 and FY15 populations.
Kris Hagerman entered into a service agreement with the Company on 11 June 2015, in which his car allowance, previously included in taxable benefits, became part of his base salary.
The net impact of this change on the total fixed element of his remuneration was nil.
% change FY15 to FY16 CEO Other employees Base salary 2 4 Taxable benefits -50 Single-year variable -22 -16 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Relative importance of spend on pay The Company completed its IPO in July 2015 and announced its first dividend in the year-ended 31 March 2016.
As a result a table showing annual percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions i. e. dividends, share buybacks and return of capital will not be presented until the annual report for the year-ending 31 March 2017.
As detailed in note 10 to the Financial Statements the total employee costs for FY16 were $250.3 million FY15: 216.9 million an increase of 15.4 percent.
"Pay for performance Under remuneration reporting regulations, companies are required to provide a graph showing the Companys Total Shareholder Return ""TSR"" performance share price plus dividends paid compared with the performance of a relevant comparator group since IPO, assuming a nominal 100 investment in both the Company and the comparator group at the start of the timeframe."
Companies are also required to show the CEOs single figure of remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
Sophos has chosen to compare its performance against the FTSE250 Index, as the Company became a constituent of the index after IPO.
The table below details the Chief Executives single figure of remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
As Sophos completed its IPO in July 2015, TSR data and pay disclosure is available only for the financial year-ending 31 March 2016.
Pay disclosure and TSR is provided below.
100 invested on Sophos' IPO 110 105 100 Sophos 95 FTSE250 90 25 June 2015 31 March 2016 2016 Incumbent Kris Hagerman CEO single figure of remuneration $000 $18,627 Annual bonus outcome % of salary 116 PSU vesting outcome % of max n a 64 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Directors share ownership audited The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 March 2016.
Share and option awards Subject to continued Shareholding Current Beneficially Subject to employment Vested but not required shareholding Requirement owned performance only yet exercised % of salary % of salary met Kris Hagerman 2,134,719 716,292 3,581,860 3,355,655 200 985 Yes Nick Bray 1,100,013 337,079 955,056 200 870 Yes Peter Gyenes 286,631 Paul Walker 63,565 127,129 Steve Munford 1,498,656 2,660,884 Sandra Bergeron 214,974 n a Edwin Gillis 286,631 Salim Nathoo Roy Mackenzie There have been no changes to shareholdings between 1 April 2016 and 25 May 2016.
None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
Summary of outstanding share awards The interests of the Directors in the Companys share schemes as at 31 March 2016 are summarised in the table below.
Kris Hagerman Nick Bray: Pre-IPO Options forfeited during the year includes performance awards converted to time vesting awards 315,285 and 7,622 respectively.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 As outlined in the prospectus, Kris Hagerman and Steve Munford continue to hold share options granted under the Pentagon Holdings Management Equity Plan MEP that were issued prior to IPO.
Nick Bray's until exercised during FY16 and Steve Munfords MEP options a Linked Option were are linked to a parallel award under a JOE Agreement.
Awards under a JOE agreement entitle the participant to call for the transfer to him by the Trustee of the JOE agreement of that part of the beneficial interest in any jointly owned shares which vest, upon payment by the participant of a price specified in the JOE Agreement.
Rights under a JOE Agreement may only be exercised to the extent that a Linked Option has not been exercised and vice versa.
The rules of the MEP provide that 50 percent of a MEP option is subject to time vesting and 50 percent is subject to performance vesting.
On Admission, 66.2 per cent of the awards subject to performance vested.
Depending on the length of service of a MEP participant, the Company may require that a portion of an option which is vested as to performance may only be exercised at a later date.
Steve Munford additionally holds vested share options granted under an option deed with Pentagon Holdings SARL on 22 October 2010.
All share options over shares in Pentagon Holdings SARL were exchanged for new options over shares in Sophos Group plc as part of the reorganisation of the Group immediately prior to the IPO.
The interests of the Directors in pre-IPO restricted shares as at 31 March 2016 are summarised in the table below.
Restricted Restricted Awards Awards Restriction held at Market Vesting Date of held at 1 lifted 31 March Exercise price at Performance period Director award April 2015 during year 2016 price grant date period date Expiry date Paul Walker Pre-IPO 27 Mar 15 190,694 63,565 127,129 $1.5575 n a 27 Mar 16 n a Restricted Shares 27 Mar 18 Sandra Bergeron Pre-IPO 19 Jan 11 42,995 42,995 $0.476 n a 19 Feb 11 n a Restricted Shares 1 Jul 15 Edwin Gillis Pre-IPO 19 Jan 11 57,326 57,326 $0.476 n a 19 Feb 11 n a Restricted Shares 1 Jul 15 Peter Gyenes Pre-IPO 19 Jan 11 57,326 57,326 $0.476 n a 19 Feb 11 n a Restricted Shares 1 Jul 15 As outlined in the prospectus certain of the Non-Executive Directors held Restricted Shares, details of them are set out below.
Paul Walker entered into a restricted share agreement on 27 March 2015 the Acquisition Date pursuant to which he acquired 300,000 A shares in Pentagon Holdings SARL.
Provided Paul Walker continues as a Director of Sophos, the Restricted Shares shall vest in three equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversaries of the Acquisition Date.
Sandra Bergeron entered into a restricted share agreement on 19 January 2011 the Acquisition Date pursuant to which she acquired 450,927 A shares in Pentagon Holdings SARL.
The Restricted Shares vested monthly over 5 years from the expiry of one month of the Acquisition date.
On Admission, the vesting of remaining unvested shares was accelerated such that all shares were vested on Admission.
Peter Gyenes and Edwin Gillis entered into restricted share agreements on 19 January 2011 the Acquisition Date pursuant to which they each acquired 601,235 A shares in Pentagon Holdings SARL.
On Admission, the vesting of remaining unvested shares was accelerated such that all shares were vested at the IPO.
All Restricted Shares in Pentagon Holdings SARL were exchanged for new shares in Sophos Group plc as part of the reorganisation of the Group immediately prior to the IPO.
On behalf of the Board Paul Walker Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2016
