Peter Ventress Chairman, Remuneration Committee Members of the Remuneration Committee REMUNERATION P Ventress Chair L Ginsberg COMMITTEE V Murria REPORT Attendance of the Remuneration Committee Name Committee attendance 2016 P Ventress Dear shareholder, L Ginsberg As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the V Murria report of the Board covering the Remuneration Policy and practice for the first time as a listed company.
Work on the Policy was started following the Total meetings held initial share offering on 18 November 2015.
Attended Did not attend I was appointed to the Board and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2015.
Since then, the Committee has reviewed and built on the remuneration work done by the Board in the lead up to the IPO and published in the prospectus.
Our goal is to have a Remuneration Policy which supports the Companys goalsto develop as a leading provider in the IT infrastructure solutions industry and to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
In our new Remuneration Policy, we are striving to incentivise and motivate the leadership team to implement the Companys strategic goals and ensure they are aligned with shareholder expectations.
This has guided our thinking and actions in our work.
This report lays out the core principles of our Remuneration Policy and our practice over the past year.
In our Policy description we have worked to provide the transparency and clarity to enable our shareholders to understand the intent of our remuneration.
Peter Ventress Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 42 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT The application of this Policy and the current remuneration arrangements for the management team reflect the specific development and history ofthe Company.
Structure of the report Martin, our CEO, has been with the business since 2006 and has been Annual Statement pages 43 to 44 instrumental in the Companys development and IPO last year.
He is a Directors Remuneration Report at a glance major shareholder of the business and therefore his current remuneration pages 45 to 46 package has been structured to reflect his history with the Company and ensuring that his interests are aligned to the next stage of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy pages 47 to 56 development.
His base salary, set at conservative levels compared to FTSE 250 CEOs of a comparable size to Softcat, reflects his unique Annual Report on Remuneration pages 57 to 61 history with Softcat.
Graham, our CFO, joined Softcat in 2015 to support the Company on its journey as a listed organisation.
His base salary level is currently conservative compared to other FTSE 250 CFOs.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, Our core principles of remuneration: the Remuneration Committee intends to review Grahams salary position to ensure Senior Executives are attracted, year on year to ensure his total remuneration opportunity moves towards retained and motivated to drive the next stage a market-competitive level.
This may mean that, in the event the Committee of development in the Company post-IPO: determines that adjustments to Grahams base salary are appropriate, his salary may be increased at a level above that for employees generally to incentivise the management team in extending until a competitive position is achieved.
the Companys position in the IT infrastructure solutions industry: and As a newly listed organisation, the management team is committed to generating returns to our shareholders and to ensuring that their pay is to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Therefore, the Committee has proposed a Remuneration Policy whereby the opportunity under the variable incentives annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunity supports this pay-for-performance philosophy.
The annual bonus opportunities of Company highlights for the 2016 financial year 200% of salary and 120% of salary for the CEO and the CFO respectively 2015 to 2016 was a transitional year for the Company as a result of the are competitive against FTSE 250 companies of a similar size, as is the publiclisting of the Company on 18 November 2015.
Extensive work was annual long-term incentive opportunity of 200% of salary.
The achievement undertaken by the senior management team in preparation for the IPO of these incentives is subject to stretching annual andmulti-year targets.
The Committee notes that in developing the proposed Policy and the Throughout the transition and post-IPO, the CEO, the CFO and the senior application of the Policy for our Executive Directors for 2016 17, it reviewed management team have continued to drive the Companys strategy.
the total remuneration opportunity with the mix of conservative base salary The effectiveness of the senior management team in implementing this levels and competitive variable incentive opportunities.
The current strategy has been substantiated in the actual level of achievement of the remuneration framework results in a target opportunity for our Executive Companys KPIs outlined on page 21, in particular our strong performance Directors around the market lower quartile of FTSE 250 companies.
against our operating profit targets which resulted in 99% of the maximum Overall the Committee is satisfied that the Remuneration Policy being bonuses being earned by the Executive Directors.
proposed in this document and the application of that Policy reflect our specific Company needs and the profile of our current Executive Directors Remuneration Committee decisions and supports the business in its next stage of development.
and activity following the IPO The Companys Remuneration Policy and practices were reviewed extensively inpreparation for the IPO to ensure appropriate remuneration arrangements were in place to support Company strategy following the listing of the Company.
The Policy that the Committee has developed and the implementation of thatPolicy has been carefully considered to support the business strategy.
The Committee has developed a remuneration framework and policy which adheres to practice that is fit for purpose for a FTSE 250 company.
The Committees objective is to operate this Policy to ensure that our Executive Directors have a remuneration structure and total remuneration opportunity that is aligned to Softcats business and is competitive when assessed against the market we compete for talent in.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Remuneration Committee Report continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT CONTINUED Notes: Remuneration Committee decisions An evaluation of the Remuneration Committees effectiveness will be conducted after a full year and activity following the IPO continued ofoperation.
Since the IPO, we have taken the opportunity to review all the key components This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized of remuneration outlined above to ensure that the proposed Remuneration Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions Policy is fit for purpose for a listed company and aligns with the Companys of the current Corporate Governance Code and taking into account the new UK Corporate Governance Code applying for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014 the Code strategic objectives and shareholder expectations.
The Report consists of three sections: In addition, we have undertaken the following activities as a the Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and associated at a glancesection: : the Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Companys Remuneration Policy for Directors and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
This policy will apply for determined the Committees terms of reference: three years from its date of approval at the 2016 AGM: and the Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to the Directors and details formulated the Companys Remuneration Policy as a listed company: and the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2016 financial year.
completed the Companys first Remuneration Report as a listed company.
The Chairmans Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
The Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote.
We shared our Policy with our top shareholders and the main shareholder bodies in September prior to its formal publication.
It was a valuable opportunity to receive feedback on our Remuneration Policy.
Two resolutions will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
We will first seek approval for the Remuneration Policy Report Part A: pages 47to 56.
This outlines the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors effective from the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The vote is binding on the Remuneration Committee and has a duration of up to three years.
The second resolution is seeking approval for the Annual Report on Remuneration Part B: pages 57 to 61.
It details decisions and actions takenbytheCommittee based on the performance of the Company andremuneration consequences.
This section of the report is subject toanannual advisory vote.
Our goal has been to be thoughtful and clear in the layout of both parts ofthe report and I look forward to your support on both resolutions.
I welcome any feedback from the Companys shareholders.
Peter Ventress Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 October 2016 44 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance AT A GLANCE INTRODUCTION In this section, we set out the remuneration outcomes for the 2016 financial year and an overview of our proposed Remuneration Policy for FY17 subject to a binding vote by shareholders at our 2016 AGM.
2016 financial year Remuneration outcomes FY16 was a transitional year for the Company as we successfully floated in November 2015 to become a listed company.
This marks a significant change forthe Company and for the roles of our Executive Directors.
Despite the backdrop of changes for the Company in FY16, the Company delivered strong operational performance in the year.
Our 2016 results and the associated annual bonus outcomes outlined below reflect the performance measures and targets put in place from the start of our 2016 financial year andthe extent to which they were satisfied.
2016 annual bonus outcomes In respect of FY16, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Companys results.
The FY16 annual bonus structure was put in place pre-IPO, comprising of a quarterly and annual assessment of performance.
The new annual bonus structure operating in FY17 is outlined on pages 48 to 49.
Normalised operating profit is defined as adjusted operating profit before the impact of incremental public company governance costs of 1.08m.
The FY16 Bonus Plan, implemented before IPO, had a payout range whereby operating profit within the range 95% 99.99% of target resulted in 85% of maximum bonus payout for the quarter.
Thebonus was paid in full as performance exceeded the maximum requirement of 103% of target.
The FY17 Bonus Plan has a new structure and the schedule can be found on pages 48 to 49.
The bonuses earned by Martin Hellawell and Graham Charlton in FY15, when the Company was a private company, amounted to 164,700 and 28,500 respectively.
Graham Charlton joined the Company in January 2015.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in relation to the outcome of the annual bonus awards.
The FY16 bonus will be paid in cash.
Long-term incentives awarded On 21 December 2015, awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP were made to the Executive Directors.
LTIP award LTIP award Executive Director % of salary shares Award date Martin Hellawell 200 208,333 21 12 15 Graham Charlton 200 141,666 21 12 15 No LTIP awards were made to the Executive Directors in FY15.
Equity exposure of the Executive Directors The following table sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors at 31 July 2016.
The CEOs shareholdings are substantially in excess of the Companys minimum shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary.
The CFO who joined the Company in January 2015 is building up his shareholding.
The Committee expects him to build up to the minimum shareholding requirement of 150% of salary over a five-year period from approval of the Remuneration Policy.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Remuneration Committee Report continued AT A GLANCE CONTINUED 2016 financial year continued Equity exposure of the Executive Directors continued Value of Value of gain Shareholding requirement Beneficially beneficially owned shares on interests over shares 1 2 % of salary owned shares % of salary i. e. unvested unexercised awards Martin Hellawell 200 14,784,399 20,540 291% Graham Charlton 150 616 1 290% Notes: 1.
This is based on a closing share price of 3.473 at 31 July 2016 and the year-end salaries of the Executive Directors.
Values are not calculated for Non-Executive Directors as they are not subject to shareholding requirements.
Indicative value of outstanding LTIP awards made in December 2015 Martin Hellawell 208,333 shares and Graham Charlton 141,666 shares based on share price as at 31 July 2016.
The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest as at 31 July 2016 are set out in detail on page 59.
2017 financial year Our proposed Remuneration Policy for implementation in 2017 On the IPO, the remuneration arrangements for the Company were updated to reflect the Companys new public status and to align with Company strategy as it transitioned into a listed environment as a FTSE 250 company.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed and considered the key components of remuneration since the IPO to ensure that the proposed Remuneration Policy is fit for purpose and aligned with the expectations of a listed company.
Our proposed Remuneration Policy summarised below has been designed to align remuneration of our Executive Directors with Company strategy and to drive continued success within a remuneration framework that meets the shareholder and governance expectations of a FTSE 250 company.
Key elements and time period Year 1 2 3 4 5 Overview of Remuneration Policy for 2017 For 2017, base salaries for the CEO and the CFO will be 257,500 and 175,100 respectively.
Base salary This is a rise from the previous year of 3%.
The maximum contribution into the defined contribution plan or a salary supplement in lieu Pension ofpension will be 20% of gross basic salary.
Standard benefits will be provided.
See Remuneration Policy for further details.
Benefits The Committee can determine the proportion of the bonus earned under the ABP that is provided Annual Bonus asanaward of deferred shares.
Plan ABP For 2017, the maximum bonus opportunities for the CEO and the CFO will be 200% and 120% Cash ofsalary respectively.
Deferred The annual bonus performance condition for 2017 is adjusted operating profit.
share award The level of deferral in shares will be one-third of the bonus earned.
The performance conditions for LTIP awards will be equally weighted between earnings per share EPS growth and comparative total shareholder return TSR assessed over a three-year performance period.
For the achievement of threshold performance, 25% of the award will vest.
100% of the award will vest for maximum performance.
There is straight-line vesting between these points.
LTIP In 2017, the maximum annual LTIP award of 200% of salary will be awarded to the CEO and the CFO.
The Committee will review prior to each grant whether to place an additional holding period post vesting of up to two years.
It is the Committees intention not to do this for the FY17 award, due to the material shareholding which the CEO has in Softcat and the CFO, new in role, is in the process of building up his equity stake in the Company up to his minimum shareholding requirement of 150% of salary.
NED annual fees 2017 annual fee Chairman 103,000 Board fee 46,350 Senior Independent Director 5,150 Committee Chairmanship per Committee 10,300 The NED annual fees for FY17 in the table above represent a rise from the previous year of 3%, consistent with the base salary increase for Executive Directors.
The Committee proposes to implement the policy for the 2017 financial year for the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, subject to shareholder approval at our 2016 AGM.
Further details of the Remuneration Policy and how our proposed Remuneration Policy aligns to Company strategy is set out in the following section.
46 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance PART A DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION In accordance with the remuneration reporting regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy as set out below will become formally effective at the AGM on 8 December 2016, subject to shareholder approval, and will apply for a period of three years from the date of approval.
The Companys core principles of remuneration are: drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the Company and taking into consideration: to ensure top Executives are attracted, retained and motivated todrivethe Company in its next stage of development post-IPO: our business strategy: to incentivise management in extending the Companys leadership overall Company performance: intheIT infrastructure solutions industry: and market conditions: to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
views of key stakeholders of the business: The Committee will review annually all elements of remuneration, including: corporate governance considerations: and the base salary, annual bonus levels, proportion of bonus to be deferred in shares and annual and long-term incentive performance conditions for the changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Executive Directors and selected members of the senior management team Our Remuneration Policy and its link to our Company strategy The Companys strategy is laid out on page 20.
Ensuring the alignment of the proposed Remuneration Policy to the Company strategy was key for the Remuneration Committee in developing the proposed Policy below.
The key elements of the Companys strategy and how its successful implementation is linked to the Companys remuneration are set out in the following table.
Strategic priorities Equity ownership Retain and reward Remuneration Policy Generate sector-leading Growth in profit from and retention executive team from the date of shareholder approval valueforshareholders existingcustomers Win new customers of shares to deliver the strategy Annual bonus The maximum bonus Adjusted operating profit including any part of the bonus The key performance indicator for the Company.
The Committee believes that the Directors deferred into an ABP award should focus on this key metric during the financial year to maintain high profit growth and the deliverable under the ABP success of the business following the IPO to deliver value for our shareholders.
willnot exceed 200% of a participants annual Growth in this metric is a direct demonstration of the successful execution of our business strategy, including winning new customers and growth of profit from existing customers.
LTIP Maximum annual award is normally EPS and TSR TSR EPS 200% of salary.
The success in maximising The generation of profit An incentive to grow this Awards will vest at the end of three years.
profitgrowth will be measured growth targeted by the annual market in the longer term is For 2016 the performance conditions for through the long-term EPS bonus will help enhance the provided through EPS growth awards are equally weighted between: growth targeted by the LTIP.
value of the Company, which targeted by the LTIP.
The earnings per share EPS growth: and Inaddition, sustained value will be measured through the success of this element of the generation will be reflected in success of the Companys strategy should be reflected in comparative total shareholder the share price of the Company, TSRperformance against its long-term TSR performance.
which will be measured through comparators a performance the Companys TSR performance condition under the LTIP.
Share Incentive Plan SIP Minimum shareholding requirements Chief Executive Officer: 200% of salary Chief Financial Officer: 150% of salary Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART A DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Remuneration Policy table Remuneration Policy aim The Committee has developed a remuneration framework and policy which adheres to practice that is fit for purpose for a FTSE 250 company.
TheCommittees objective is to operate this policy to ensure that our Executive Directors have a remuneration structure and total remuneration opportunitythat is aligned to Softcats business and is competitive when assessed against the market we compete for talent in.
Element of How it supports the Companys remuneration short and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Salary Provides a base level of remuneration to support An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment and reviewed annually or when there is a The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are positioned in line with companies of a similar size to Softcat and validated against companies operating in a similar sector, so that recruitment and retention of Executive Directors with change in position or responsibility.
total remuneration opportunity base salary, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives for the Executive Directors is competitive against the market.
thenecessary experience and expertise to deliver the When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: When assessing salary levels, the Committee will consider levels in the comparator group, made up of organisations in the FTSE 250 excluding financial services, real estate and equity Companys strategy.
investment trusts and sector peer companies of comparable size to Softcat.
remuneration practices within the Company: The Committee intends to review the comparator groups each year and may add or remove companies from the group as it considers appropriate.
Any changes to the comparator group the general performance of the Company: will be set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year.
salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator group used for In general salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the increase for employees.
: The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
any change in scope, role and responsibilities: and the economic environment.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted tothe Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
Insuch cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for employees until the target positioning is achieved.
Benefits Provides a benefits package in line with practice relative The Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life insurance and death in service benefit.
See description of benefits in previous column.
to its comparator group to enable the Company to recruit The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the benefits provided to ensure and retain Executive Directors with the experience and itisable to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Company expertise to deliver the Companys strategy.
Additional benefits may therefore be offered, such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Pensions Provides a pension provision in line with practice relative Pension arrangements are provided in line with practice relative to its comparator group to enable The maximum contribution into the defined contribution plan or a salary supplement in lieu of pension will be 20% of gross basic salary.
to its comparator group to enable the Company to recruit theCompany to recruit and retain Executive Directors with the experience and expertise to deliver The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the pension contributions for that year for each of the and retain Executive Directors with the experience and theCompanys strategy.
expertise to deliver the Companys strategy.
The Company operates a defined contribution DC scheme.
The Executive Directors are entitled to receive a maximum employer contribution into the DC scheme or a salary supplement in lieu of pension of20% of basic salary per annum.
Element of How it supports the Companys remuneration short and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual and The Bonus Plan provides a significant incentive to The maximum bonus including any part of the bonus deferred into share awards deliverable under the Bonus Percentage of bonus maximum earned for levels of performance: An award under the Bonus Plan is subject to satisfying financial and strategic operational performance Deferred the Executive Directors linked to achievement in Plan will be up to 200% of a participants annual base salary.
personal performance conditions and targets measured over a period of one financial year.
Threshold: 0% Bonus Plan delivering goals that are closely aligned with the The Board will determine the bonus to be delivered following the end of the relevant financial year.
A minimum of 50% of the bonus shall be based on financial performance measures.
On target: up to 60% the Bonus Plan Companys strategy and the creation of value The Company will set out, in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following The Board will determine the bonus to be delivered following the end of the relevant financial year.
financial year, the nature of the targets and their weighting for each year.
The Committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed The annual bonus will be paid in cash and deferred shares.
In particular, the Bonus Plan supports the Companys Details of the performance conditions, targets and their level of satisfaction for the year being reported on will financial targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the Bonus Plan in advance objectives, allowing the setting of annual targets be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
would not be in shareholders interests.
Targets, performance achieved and awards made will be based on the business strategy at the time, meaning published at the end of the performance period so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any The Committee can determine that part of the bonus earned under the Bonus Plan is provided as an award of shares.
that a wider range of performance metrics can be payouts under the Bonus Plan.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned.
used that are relevant and achievable.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee retains the discretion to: The main terms of these awards are: The Committee has discretion to defer part of the change the performance measures and targets and the weighting attached to the performance annual bonus earned in shares under the Bonus minimum deferral period of three years, during which no performance conditions will apply: and measures and targets partway through a performance year if there is a significant and material Plan.
The advantage of deferral is: the participants continued employment at the end of the deferral period unless he she is a good leaver.
eventwhich causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are increased alignment between Executives and The Committee may award dividend equivalents on those shares to plan participants to the extent that they vest.
nolonger appropriate: and shareholders created through deferral and the The Committee will review, prior to each annual bonus year, whether to place additional holding periods make downward or upward adjustments to the amount of bonus earned resulting from the application increased equity stake of management in the ofup to two years post-vesting of the deferred bonus shares.
of the performance measures, if the Committee believes that the bonus outcomes are not a fair and Company: and accurate reflection of business performance.
amounts deferred in shares are subject to a Any adjustments or discretion applied by the Committee will be fully disclosed in the following years Directors continuing employment, which Remuneration Report.
The Bonus Plan contains clawback and malus provisions.
48 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Remuneration Policy table Remuneration Policy aim The Committee has developed a remuneration framework and policy which adheres to practice that is fit for purpose for a FTSE 250 company.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART A DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Remuneration Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys remuneration short and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long Term The purpose of the LTIP is to incentivise and Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a conditional share award, nil-cost option Normal maximum value of up to 200% of salary p. a. based on the market value The performance conditions for the 2016 LTIP awards are earnings per share EPS growth and relative Incentive Plan reward Executive Directors in relation to orrestricted share award.
at the date of grant set in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
LTIP long-term performance and achievement Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year will be set out in the Annual Report on In exceptional circumstances the Committee may grant an award with a The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different measures for subsequent ofCompany strategy.
Remuneration and for future grants in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the maximum of up to 250% of salary.
This will better align Executive Directors interests future financial year.
25% of the award will vest for threshold performance.
No material change will be made to the type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
with the long-term interests of the Company and Awards will vest at the end of a three-year period subject to: 100% of the award will vest for maximum performance.
There is straight-line In exceptional circumstances the Committee retains the discretion to: act as a retention mechanism.
the Executive Directors continued employment at the date of vesting: and vesting between these points.
vary, substitute or waive the performance conditions applying to LTIP awards if the Board considers it The use of comparative TSR measures the success satisfaction of the performance conditions.
appropriate and the new performance conditions are deemed reasonable and are not materially less of the implementation of the Companys strategy in difficult to satisfy than the original conditions: and The Committee may award dividend equivalents on awards to the extent that these vest.
delivering an above-market level of return.
make downward or upward adjustments to the amount vesting under the LTIP resulting from the The Committee will review, prior to each LTIP grant, whether to place additional holding periods of up The use of EPS ensures Executive Directors are application of the performance measures if the Committee believes that the outcomes are not a fair totwoyears post-vesting.
focused on long-term financial performance to and accurate reflection of business performance.
ensure this flows through to long-term sustainable The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share Incentive The SIP is an all-employee share ownership plan The Company operates an SIP in which the Executive Directors are eligible to participate which is in line with The maximums set by legislation from time to time.
The Company, in accordance with the legislation, may impose objective conditions on participation in the Plan SIP which has been designed to encourage all HMRC legislation and is open to all eligible staff.
employees to become shareholders in the The Executive Directors will also be eligible to participate in any other all-employee arrangement Company and thereby align their interests implemented by the Company.
Minimum The Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up, over a five-year period, and then subsequently The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: shareholding hold, a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive Role Shareholding requirement % of salary requirement arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
Chief Executive Officer 200 Chief Financial Officer 150 The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, for the financial year 2016 to 2017, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i fixed: ii annual bonus deferred bonus : and iii LTIP.
Chief Executive Officer Martin Hellawell Chief Financial Officer Graham Charlton 1,400 1,400 1,288 1,200 1,200 1,000 40% 1,000 825 740 800 800 31% 600 600 481 48% 40% 400 38% 400 36% 258 180 28% 26% 200 200 100% 31% 20% 100% 38% 24% 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed Bonus LTIP 50 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 000 000 Corporate governance Remuneration Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys remuneration short and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long Term The purpose of the LTIP is to incentivise and Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a conditional share award, nil-cost option Normal maximum value of up to 200% of salary p. a. based on the market value The performance conditions for the 2016 LTIP awards are earnings per share EPS growth and relative Incentive Plan reward Executive Directors in relation to orrestricted share award.
The table below sets out the assumptions used to calculate the elements of remuneration for each of the scenarios set out in the charts opposite.
Element Description Minimum Target Maximum 1 Fixed Salary, benefits and pension Included Included Included Annual bonus Annual bonus including deferred shares No annual variable 60% of maximum bonus 100% of maximum bonus Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for the CEO and 120% for the CFO LTIP Award under the LTIP No multiple-year variable 50% of the maximum award 100% of the maximum award Maximum annual award of 200% of salary Notes: 1.
Based on 2016 benefits payments and pension values as per the single figure table.
The actual benefits and pension contributions for 2017 will only be known at the end of the financial year.
See page 57 for the single figure table and the accompanying notes.
In accordance with the regulations, share price growth has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to the deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
Participation in the SIP has been excluded given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART A DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy continued Pay at risk The charts below set out the single figure of each Executive Director based on whether the elements remain at risk.
For example: payment is subject to continuing employment for a period deferred shares and LTIP awards : or performance conditions have to still be satisfied LTIP awards : or elements are subject to clawback or malus for a period over which the Company can recover sums paid or withhold vesting.
Further details of what triggers clawback or malus are set out below.
Figures have been calculated based on target performance.
The charts have been based on the same assumptions as set out above for the illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy.
Chief Executive Officer Martin Hellawell Annual bonus 309,000 LTIP 257,500 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 Subject to malus Subject to clawback Subject to performance At risk 566,500 Salary 257,500 Pension and benefits 771 Chief Financial Officer Graham Charlton Annual bonus 126,000 LTIP 175,000 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 Subject to malus Subject to clawback Subject to performance At risk 301,000 Salary 175,000 Pension and benefits 5,246 Malus and clawback The following describes the malus and clawback provisions in the incentive plans: Malus is the adjustment of unpaid bonus, outstanding LTIP awards and deferred share bonus awards under the Bonus Plan as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to zero.
Clawback is the recovery of payments under the Bonus Plan or vested LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances listed below.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: the discovery that the assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of a Bonus Award or LTIP award was based on error, or inaccurate ormisleading information: and or the discovery that any information used to determine the number of ordinary shares subject to a Bonus Award or LTIP award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: and or the action or conduct of a holder of a Bonus Award or LTIP award which, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: and or events or behaviour of a holder of a Bonus Award or LTIP award leading to the censure of the Company by a regulatory authority or having a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of the Company, provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant holder of a Bonus Award or LTIP award was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to him.
52 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Malus and clawback continued Annual Bonus Plan Deferred Bonus Plan Long Term Incentive Plan Malus Up to the date of payment of a cash bonus To the end of the three-year deferral period To the end of the three-year vesting period Clawback Three years post the bonus determination n a Two years post-vesting The Committee believes that the rules of the plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to admission will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made post the Companys first AGM following admission and may be inconsistent with policy.
Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new Executive Director recruited will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the incumbent Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as considering the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
and pension Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary in normal circumstances and 250% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Buyout of Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justifies the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives incentives forfeited that will be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: on cessation the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: of employment the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant an award up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Maximum variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted in normal circumstances is 400% of salary 450% of salary if the maximum LTIP grant is made.
remuneration Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART A DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Payment for loss of office The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation orby way of damages for breach of such an obligation, or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Element Overview of policy Principles The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Salary, benefits These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a payment as set out above.
In addition, provision is retained to make and pension apayment in lieu of notice.
Cash bonus awards Good leavers: performance conditions will be measured at the bonus measurement date.
Bonuses will normally be pro-rated for the period worked during the financial year.
Other leavers: no bonus payable for year of cessation.
Discretion the Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that an Executive is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case, which will be explained in full to shareholders: and to determine whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate bonus for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case, which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Share bonus awards Good leavers: all subsisting deferred share awards will vest at the end of the original deferral period.
Other leavers: lapse of any unvested deferred share awards.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case, which will be explained in full to shareholders: to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
LTIP Good leavers: pro-rated to time and performance in respect of each subsisting LTIP award.
Other leavers: lapse of any unvested LTIP awards.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that an Executive is a good leaver.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case, which will be explained in full to shareholders: to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above, agreed prior to 27 June 2012. obligations A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: retirement: ill health: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and injury or disability: at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
redundancy: Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
54 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Change of control The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below: Name of incentive plan Change of control Discretion ABP cash awards Pro-rated to time and performance to the date The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The Committees normal policy of the change of control.
is that it will pro-rate the bonus for time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances only where there is an appropriate business case, which will be explained in full to shareholders.
ABP deferred Subsisting deferred share awards will vest The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the award to time.
The Committees normal share awards on a change of control.
policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the circumstances of the change of control.
LTIP The number of shares subject to subsisting The Committee will determine the proportion of the LTIP award which vests taking into account, among other LTIPawards will vest on a change of control, factors, the period of time the LTIP award has been held by the participant and the extent to which any pro-rated to time and performance.
applicable performance conditions have been satisfied at that time.
Non-Executive Director remuneration How it supports the Companys Performance Element of remuneration short and long-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Non-Executive Provides a level of fees to support recruitment The Board is responsible for setting the The fees for Non-Executive Directors and the None.
Director and and retention of Non-Executive Directors and remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman are set at broadly the median of Chairman fees aChairman with the necessary experience The Remuneration Committee is responsible the comparator group.
toadvise and assist with establishing and for setting the Chairmans fees.
In general the level of fee increase for the monitoring the Companys strategic objectives.
Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman fee and additional fees for chairmanship will be set taking account of any change ofCommittees.
The Chairman does not inresponsibility and will take into account receive any additional fees for membership the general rise in salaries across the of Committees.
Fees are reviewed annually based on The Company will pay reasonable expenses equivalent roles in the comparator group incurred by the Non-Executive Directors and used to review salaries paid to the Executive the Chairman and may settle any tax Directors.
Fees are set at broadly the median incurred in relation to these.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Executive Director contracts and letters of appointment for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation Nature From From provisions for Name Date of service contract of contract Company Director early termination Martin Hellawell 29 October 2015 Rolling Twelve months Twelve months None Graham Charlton 29 October 2015 Rolling Twelve months Twelve months None Non-Executive Directors Name Date of letter of appointment 1 Brian Wallace 29 October 2015 Lee Ginsberg 4 August 2015 Vin Murria 3 November 2015 Note: Peter Ventress 29 September 2015 1.
Commencement date as Chairman: 1 July 2014.
The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a twelve-month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters ofappointment.
Each Independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three-year period.
The initial terms of the Non-Executive Directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the AGM and to re-election atanysubsequent AGM at which the Non-Executive Directors stand for re-election.
All Directors will be put forward for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART A DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Statement of considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
The remuneration strategy of the Company has been designed to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration andshare ownership.
On IPO two new remuneration arrangements were introduced: the LTIP for Executive Directors and annual bonus deferral for some members of the senior team.
Awards under both these plans will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders based on overall corporate performance of the business.
For all employees, the Company has adopted a SIP.
Under the new plans, all employees will have the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements nor have employees been consulted directly on the Policy.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of Company are taken into account, including any base salary increases awarded.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for management-level tiers below the Executive Directors and uses this information toensure consistency of approach throughout the Company.
Link to objectives The following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at various levels within the Company.
Strategic objectives Retain and reward Generate Equity Executive sector-leading Growth in profit ownership team to value for from existing Win new and retention deliver the Plan Purpose Eligibility shareholders customers customers of shares strategy SIP To broaden share ownership All employees and sharein corporate success over themedium term Annual bonus Incentivise and reward Executive Directors, short-term performance.
SeniorExecutives, Senior At senior level, an element of Managers andManagers bonus isdeferred in shares LTIP Incentivise and reward Executive Directors long-termperformance andSeniorExecutives Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping Remuneration Policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting the remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Remuneration Policy.
The Committee consulted with the Companys key shareholders along with the Investment Association IA and the Institutional Shareholder Services ISS onthe proposed Policy set out in this report.
56 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance PART B ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Single total figure of remuneration audited Executive Directors audited The tables below set out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of FY16 and FY15.
Salary of 168,920 prior to IPO date Nov 2015 and 250,000 following the IPO to the end of the financial year.
Salary of 150,000 prior to IPO date Nov 2015 and 170,000 following the IPO to the end of the financial year.
See section below setting out details of the benefits provided.
Details of the bonus targets, their level of satisfaction and the resulting bonus earned in FY16 are set out on page 45.
The first grant of LTIP awards made in December 2015 which will vest in December 2018.
As part of the pre-IPO arrangements disclosed in the Prospectus, Graham held 200,000 share options issued on 31 March 2015 that vested on IPO.
The exercise price of these options was 1.059.
Peter Kelly and Colin Brown were Executive Directors prior to the Companys IPO, until their resignations on 15 October 2015.
The table below sets out their remuneration as Executive Directors between 1 August 2015 and 15 October 2015.
Taxable Executive Directors Salary benefits Bonus Pension Total Peter Kelly 33,872 652 17,000 51,524 Colin Brown 36,071 126 56,083 1,082 93,362 FY15 Taxable 1 2 Executive Directors Salary benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Martin Hellawell CEO 168,920 2,142 164,700 335,762 3 Graham Charlton CFO 63,281 337 28,500 1,898 94,016 Notes: 1.
See section below setting out details on benefits provided.
Similar to FY16, the FY15 bonus structure was put in place pre-IPO, comprising a quarterly and annual assessment of performance.
Peter Kelly, Colin Brown and Richard Lecoutre were Executive Directors during all or, in the case of Richard Lecoutre, until his resignation on 19 March 2015 of FY15.
The table below sets out their remuneration as Executive Directors during FY15.
Taxable Executive Directors Salary benefits Bonus Pension Total Peter Kelly 158,620 2,940 90,000 251,560 Colin Brown 168,920 1,241 154,610 37,958 362,729 Richard Lecoutre 78,108 1,005 23,100 2,343 104,556 Taxable benefits Benefits in the year for the Executive Directors comprised private medical insurance.
2016 annual bonus outcomes In respect of 2016, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee, having reviewed the Companys results.
The 2016 annual bonus structure was put in place pre-IPO, comprising a quarterly and annual assessment of performance.
The new annual bonus structure operating in 2017 is outlined on pages 48 to 49.
Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of FY16 and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table on page 45.
Thesefigures are included in the single figure table.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART B ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Long-term incentives awarded Awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP are shown in the table on page 45.
The awards were subject to the following performance conditions: Measure Weighting Details Adjusted EPS 50% 20% vesting of this element for absolute EPS at end of performance period of 18.7p Full vesting for 21.6p Straight-line vesting between these points Relative TSR assessed against the constituents 50% 30% vesting for median performance against the comparators of the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and equity Full vesting for upper quartile performance investment trusts Straight-line vesting between these points Pension entitlements The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme which the Executive Directors can participate in, or they can take a cash supplement in lieu ofpension.
In FY16 and FY15, Martin Hellawell did not receive any pension entitlements and Graham Charlton received 3% of salary employer pension contributions into the defined contribution scheme.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The table below sets out the free shares awarded to the Directors in the financial year.
The Directors have an entitlement to purchase partnership shares under the SIP.
Graham Charlton purchased 616 partnership shares during the year in addition to the receipt of free shares below.
Thetotal SIP holdings are provided on page 59 as part of the Directors share interests table.
Free shares awarded during Award Market price Lapsed Executive Director the year date on award date during period Martin Hellawell 1,204 11 12 15 3.00 Graham Charlton 301 11 12 15 3.00 Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director.
1 Non-Executive Directors 2016 fees 2015 fees Roles Brian Wallace 100,000 100,000 Independent Non-Executive Chairman Lee Ginsberg 55,000 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chair of the Audit Committee Vin Murria 33,750 Non-Executive Director Peter Ventress 45,830 Non-Executive Director Chair of the Remuneration Committee Note: 1.
The fees are proportionate to time in service to reflect total fees paid during the financial year.
Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office There were no payments in the financial year.
58 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Shares held directly Other shares held Options Deferred shares LTIP interests Shareholding Current not subject subject to Interests Shareholding requirement shareholding Beneficially to performance performance in unvested Vested and requirement 1 3 Director % of salary % of salary owned conditions conditions SIP shares unexercised Unvested Exercised met?
This is based on a closing share price of 3.473 and the year-end salaries of the Executive Directors.
Graham Charlton has purchased 137 partnership shares since the year end and the date of this report.
There have been no further changes to the interests of the other Directors.
Investment in partnership shares under the SIP.
Interests of free shares under the SIP.
As part of the pre-IPO arrangements disclosed in the Prospectus, Graham held 200,000 share options issued on 31 March 2015 which vested and were exercised on IPO.
Includes ordinary shares held by, or in trust for, Martin Hellawell and or his family members.
At 31 July 2015, prior to the pre-IPO share reorganisation which occurred on 12 November 2015, Martin Hellawell and Brian Wallace held 1,197,298 and 15,000 shares in Softcat Ltd respectively.
None of the other Directors held shares in the Company at 31 July 2015.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as non-executive directors and retain the fees.
Martin Hellawell and Graham Charlton currently hold no external directorships.
Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index.
The graph shows the total shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this since the first review of the index since the IPO.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 18 November 2015 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 18 November 2015 to 31 July 2016.
Total shareholder return 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 FTSE 250 Softcat 60 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 18 11 2015 30 11 2015 31 12 2015 31 01 2016 29 02 2016 31 03 2016 30 04 2016 31 05 2016 30 06 2016 31 07 2016 Remuneration Committee Report continued PART B ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Chief Executive Officers historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the last year valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
Chief Executive Officer 2016 2015 Total single figure 562,117 335,762 1 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 99 72 2 2 LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a n a Notes: 1.
In FY16 the Q1 bonus achievement was below target, which resulted in 85% of maximum bonus payout.
The Q2-Q4 targets and the annual target were met and resulted in a full payout 100%.
First LTIP award was made in December 2015, which will vest in December 2018.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2016 financial year.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company accounts.
Disbursements from profit Disbursements from profit in 2016 financial year in 2015 financial year Profit distributed by way of dividend 43.5m 7.3m 1 Total tax contributions 16.7m 14.7m Overall spend on pay, including Executive Directors 59.3m 43.9m Note: 1.
Includes corporation tax and employers National insurance contributions.
Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees The Company has chosen not to provide this information for 2016 as the Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable in its earlier years asaprivate company bears any comparative value to that which is to be paid post-IPO.
In the 2017 report comparative information will be provided.
Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy in financial year 2017 See table on page 46.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team.
Prior to the establishment of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration decisions were made by the Board of the Company.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of the Remuneration Policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website, https: www.
com investor-relations , and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: to determine and agree with the Board the broad Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team: to review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: and to review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company and to administer all aspects of any share scheme.
The Committee receives assistance from the Company Secretary, who will attend meetings by invitation.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasion.
60 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Following a selection process carried out by the Board prior to the IPO of the Company, the Committee has engaged the services of PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and selected members of the senior management team.
PwC also provided the Company with tax and assurance work during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fixed fees of 15,000 2015: nil were provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice received.
Statement of voting at general meeting The 2016 AGM will be the first AGM of the Company as a listed entity and therefore there is no historic voting information.
This Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by Peter Ventress Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 October 2016 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
