GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration decisions in respect of 2016 Directors Although financial results for the year were reasonable, factors including market Remuneration Report headwinds, the continued investment in our two new hospitals and the performance of Spire St Anthonys Hospital impacted our At Spire Healthcare, we aim to operate a remuneration structure overall performance.
that is both simple and transparent, which will deliver value This has meant that the EBITDA achieved to shareholders in the medium to long term.
was below the threshold that was set by the Committee at the start of the year and consequently no bonus payment will be made to senior management in respect of the 2016 financial year.
Although this is disappointing, it does once again demonstrate the robust approach to target setting as well as the Committees commitment to aligning pay with performance.
The performance period for the share awards granted in 2014 under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP ended on 31 December 2016.
As a result of the significant increase in its share price since Admission, the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance was well within the upper-quartile of the comparator group.
In due course, this award will vest at 50% of the maximum level.
Further details are set out in the main body of the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration decisions for 2017 As noted above no changes to the Remuneration Policy are proposed for 2017.
The incentive structure will continue to comprise an annual bonus, which is partially deferred, and an LTIP award which measures performance over three years.
Prior to the grant of LTIP awards in 2017, the Committee reviewed the performance Dear Shareholder, measures applicable to future awards.
The remuneration structure operated The Committee concluded that it was Tony Bourne at Spire Healthcare is intended to be important for the LTIP to focus on metrics simple and transparent.
The Directors which provide a link to the Groups strategic Committee chair Remuneration Policy obtained strong priorities and are aligned to value created support from shareholders at the 2015 for shareholders.
annual general meeting, and the Committee Consistent with awards granted in prior intends to continue operating under this years, the Committee has determined that policy in 2017.
For the coming year, the the majority of the 2017 LTIP award 70% Committee is not proposing to make any will continue to be based on stretching EPS amendments to the Remuneration Policy and relative total shareholder return TSR including any changes to the quantum of targets.
These measures provide alignment opportunities proposed.
with the shareholder experience and remain Overall, the Committee remains satisfied core indicators of our long-term performance.
that the current and proposed combination For 2017 LTIP grants, the EPS and relative of bonus and long-term incentive provides a TSR targets will be complemented with a simple structure which appropriately reflects new element based on metrics linked to the Groups strategic priorities, our core Operational Excellence.
Given the highly values and ultimately shareholders interests.
regulated and quality-sensitive nature of the healthcare sector, the clinical quality of our operations and the experience of our 76 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION patients are vital to our long-term prospects.
These factors are key differentiators Remuneration Committee at a glance between providers in the market, and drive 2016 highlights not only how Spire Healthcare performs over The Committee began the process to review the performance metrics associated with the period, but also how the Company is future LTIP awards.
positioned for growth in future years.
The No changes have been made to the Companys Remuneration Policy during the year.
Committee has therefore determined that this should be reflected in the LTIP for 2017.
Committee membership and meeting attendance The Remuneration Committee members at the end of 2016 and the number of Operational Excellence, will be based upon Committee meetings they each attended during the year are as follows the maximum two sector-specific performance metrics: number of meetings that the member could have attended is shown in brackets : Regulatory ratings this is a measure of clinical excellence based on a robust Committee Committee meetings external inspection regime.
As results are Member member since Position in Company attended in 2016 publicly available they are able directly to Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 influence how customers make informed Committee Chair Director choices between providers: and John Gildersleeve July 2014 Deputy Chairman and Senior 3 4 Net Promoter Score this is a measure Independent Director of the patient experience.
Sustained performance in this area supports Adle Anderson August 2016 Independent Non-Executive 2 2 future referrals.
Director In respect of both our existing estate and Committee members biographies are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Robert Lerwill also all future hospitals, targeting Operational served as a member of the Remuneration Committee until 27 June 2016.
Excellence will provide a clear long-term measure of how the Group sustains and The Remuneration Committee must have at least three members, all of whom must improves the underlying quality of be independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Board appoints the Committees Chair.
If a member is unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Committees Chair.
Overall, the Committee is of the view that the addition of the Operational Excellence The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary to element provides a more balanced approach the Committee.
to long-term performance assessment which Role and responsibilities will be strongly aligned in the medium and The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority from the Board to determine long term with shareholders interests.
the framework and total remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and, As part of the review process, the Committee in consultation with the Executive Chairman, senior management.
It also oversees the engaged with major shareholders regarding Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
In practice, the Committee agrees the: the proposed approach, and feedback policy for cash remuneration, executive share plans, service contracts and received regarding the addition of the termination arrangements: Operational Excellence measures was positive.
reward packages of Executive Directors: Further details of the targets are set out termination arrangements for Executive Directors: in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
recommendations to the Board concerning any new executive share plans or changes to existing schemes which require shareholders approval: and Shareholder communication basis on which awards are granted and their amount to Executive Directors and senior management under the LTIP.
and the annual general meeting The Directors Remuneration Policy is due The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com for renewal at the 2018 annual general meeting, as part of the standard three-year review process.
Over the coming year, the The Committee recommends the 2016 Committee therefore plans to undertake an the Committee will be mindful of these Directors Remuneration Report to you for in-depth review of arrangements to ensure developments in market and best practice.
approval and we look forward to your they continue to support the objectives of The Committee intends to engage with continued support at our annual general the business and remain in the best interests major shareholders regarding any proposals meeting in May 2017. of the shareholders over the medium to in good time, prior to the annual general long term.
Tony Bourne Over the past year there has clearly been I am committed to ensuring an open Chair, Remuneration Committee considerable debate regarding the structure dialogue with our shareholders.
If you 1 March 2017 of senior executive pay in the listed have any questions about the content of this years Directors Remuneration environment.
The Committee has also Report please contact me via noted evolving investor views on matters companysecretary@spirehealthcare.
such as alternative incentive models and design features such as post-vesting holding periods.
As part of the forthcoming review Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 77
