GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Policy Report The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 21 May 2015 and remains unchanged.
An extract from this report has been reproduced below for ease of reference.
For clarity the content has been updated, where relevant, to include details of how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2017.
The Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders is set out in the 2014 Annual Report and is available on our website.
Remuneration Policy table Fixed remuneration Purpose and link Performance Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity measures Salary To provide fixed The Committee takes into account a While there is no defined maximum None remuneration number of factors when setting salaries, opportunity, salary increases normally that is including: take into account increases for full-time appropriate for scope and responsibility of the role: employees across the Group.
the role and to the skills and experience of the The Committee retains discretion secure and retain individual: to make higher increases in certain the talent salary levels for similar roles within circumstances, for example, following required by the appropriate comparators: an increase in the scope and or Group.
overall structure of the remuneration responsibility of the role, or a significant package: and change in market practice or the pay and conditions elsewhere in development of the individual in the role.
The Executive Directors salaries from Salaries are normally reviewed annually, 1 April 2017 are: with any increase usually taking effect Andrew White: 365,000 in January.
Simon Gordon: 373,013 A range of role-appropriate benefits Whilst no maximum limit exists, None Benefits Fixed element of may be provided to Executive Directors, individual benefit arrangements take remuneration including such items as private medical into account a number of factors, providing market insurance for the Executive Director and including market practice competitive their family, permanent health assurance, for comparable roles within appropriate benefits to both support retention participation in an income protection pay comparators.
and recruit scheme, life assurance, an annual health Participation in any HMRC-approved people of the assessment for the Executive Director all-employee share plan is subject to the necessary calibre.
and their spouse and a car allowance.
maximum permitted by the relevant Additional one-off benefits may also be tax legislation.
provided where the Committee considers this appropriate e. g. on relocation.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company from time-to-time on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
The Committee keeps the benefits package offered to existing and new Executive Directors under review.
Retirement Fixed element of Executive Directors can opt to join the The maximum level of retirement None benefits remuneration to Companys defined contribution scheme, benefits is 25% of base salary, and the assist with receive a contribution into a personal current provision for the Executive retirement pension scheme, take a cash supplement Directors is 18% of base salary.
or any combination of the three.
They are set by taking into account a Retirement The employer defined contribution level, number of factors, including market benefits the contribution into a personal pension practice for comparable roles at are provided to scheme and or cash supplement are appropriate pay comparators.
both support kept under review by the Committee.
For new Executive Directors, the nature retention and The retirement benefits are not included and value of any retirement benefits recruit people of in calculating bonus and long-term provided will be, in the Committees the necessary incentive quantum.
view, reasonable in the context of calibre.
market practice for comparable roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Group.
78 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Variable remuneration Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual To incentivise Objectives are set annually Maximum award Awards are based on a combination bonus and reward the to ensure that they remain targeted opportunity for of financial, operational and achievement of and focused on the delivery of Executive Directors is individual goals measured over annual financial, strategic goals.
150% of base salary for one financial year.
operational and The Committee sets targets that each financial year, a At least 50% of the award will be assessed against the Groups individual objectives require appropriate levels of portion of which is financial metrics.
The remainder that are key to the performance, taking into account normally deferred into of the award will be based on delivery of the internal and external expectations an award of shares performance against strategic Groups strategy.
under the DBP objectives and or individual As soon as practicable after the year currently one-third.
Details of the end, the Committee meets to review performance measures for 2016 performance against objectives and 2017 are set out in the Annual and determines payout levels.
Committee may adjust payments A sliding scale between 0% and to ensure they are reflective of 100% of the maximum award overall performance.
pays out for achievement between A portion of any bonus as the minimum and maximum determined by the Committee is performance thresholds.
normally deferred into an award of For annual bonuses in respect of shares under the Deferred Bonus 2017, the targets will be based on Plan DBP.
Currently one-third of EBITDA and a balanced scorecard any bonus is deferred for a period of strategic metrics.
of three years although the The details of measures, targets Committee may vary this approach.
and weightings may be varied by DBP awards may be in the form of the Committee year-on-year based conditional share awards or nil-cost on the Groups strategic priorities.
options or any other form allowed by the Plan rules.
This deferred bonus element is not normally subject to any further performance conditions, although it is subject to continued employment.
Further details of the malus and clawback provisions applicable are set out on page 80.
Long To incentivise and Awards granted under the LTIP The maximum award Vesting of awards will be dependent Term reward the delivery vest subject to achievement opportunity at grant on a range of financial, operational Incentive of long-term of performance conditions for Executive Directors or share price measures, as set by Plan LTIP strategic objectives.
measured over a period of at least in respect of a financial the Committee, which are aligned To align the three years, unless the Committee year is 200% of base with the long-term strategic interests of the determines otherwise.
objectives of the Group and Executive Directors Awards may be in the form of shareholder value creation.
with those of conditional share awards or nil-cost Not less than 30% of an award will shareholders.
options or any other form allowed be based on share price measures.
To assist by the Plan rules.
The remainder will be based recruitment and Further details of the malus and on either financial and or retention of clawback provisions applicable are operational measures.
At the threshold performance, no more than 25% of the award will vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
For awards granted in 2017, vesting will be based on EPS 35%, relative TSR 35% and Operational Excellence 30% targets.
The details of measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee prior to grant based on the Groups strategic objectives.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 79 GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Notes to the policy table performance Recovery provisions Recruitment policy In determining remuneration for new measures and targets malus and clawback Executive Directors, the Committee will Prior to vesting, the Committee may cancel Annual bonus consider all relevant factors, including the or reduce the number of shares subject to, The annual bonus performance measures calibre of the individual and the external or impose additional conditions on LTIP, DBP are designed to provide an appropriate market, while aiming not to pay more than awards and Directors Share Bonus Awards balance between incentivising Executive is necessary to secure the required talent.
in circumstances where the Committee Directors to meet financial targets for the The Committee would seek to act in what considers it to be appropriate malus.
year and to deliver specific strategic, it considers to be the best interests of the Such circumstances may include: a serious operational and personal goals.
This balance Group and its shareholders.
Normally, the misstatement of the Groups audited allows the Committee to review the Groups Committee will seek to align the new financial results: a serious miscalculation of performance in the round against the Executive Directors remuneration package any relevant performance measure: a serious key elements of our strategy, and to the Remuneration Policy, as set out above.
failure of risk management or regulatory appropriately incentivise and reward compliance by a relevant entity: serious the Executive Directors.
Salary and benefits including any retirement reputational damage to the Group: or the benefits will be determined in accordance Bonus targets are set by the Committee each participants material misconduct.
with the policy table above.
In certain year to ensure that Executive Directors are instances, the Committee may decide to In addition, for cash bonus awards in respect focused on the key financial and strategic appoint an Executive Director to the Board of 2015 and future years, and for LTIP awards objectives for the financial year.
In doing so, on a lower-than-typical salary, with the granted after 1 January 2015, the Committee the Committee usually takes into account a intention of gradually increasing the salary may also claw back vested awards in certain number of internal and external reference to move closer to market level as they build extreme circumstances including those points, including the Groups business plan.
Normally, benefits will listed above for up to two years following Long Term Incentive Plan be limited to those outlined in the policy the determination of the relevant The Committee believes it is important that table above, including a relocation allowance performance outcome.
the performance conditions applying to LTIP in certain circumstances.
Prior to applying malus or clawback, the awards support the long-term ambitions of The maximum level of variable pay Committee will take into account all relevant the Group and the creation of shareholder excluding any buyouts that may be factors including, where a serious failure of value.
The Committee continues to consider awarded to a new Executive Director will risk management or regulatory compliance that EPS and relative TSR metrics remain be limited to 350% of base salary, which or serious reputational damage has occurred, appropriate measures of long-term is consistent with the policy table above.
the degree of involvement of the employee performance.
In addition, 2017 awards will Incentives will normally be granted under the in that failure or damage in question and the include Operational Excellence metrics to existing plans: however, where appropriate, employees level of responsibility in deciding provide qualitative measures which are the Committee may tailor the award e. g. whether, and to what extent, it is reasonable strategically important given the highly time frame, form, performance criteria to operate malus and or clawback.
The regulated and quality sensitive nature of the based on the commercial circumstances.
Committee is satisfied that the above healthcare sector.
provisions provide robust safeguards against The Committee may buy out remuneration The Committee will keep the measures and inappropriate payment of incentive awards.
terms a new hire has had to forfeit on joining weightings under review to ensure that the the Group.
Buyout awards are intended to most appropriate measures to incentivise Legacy arrangements be of comparable commercial value, and the long-term success of the Group are used.
Directors Share Bonus Plan Awards were capped accordingly.
The Committee will granted to Rob Roger, Simon Gordon take into account all relevant factors when and Garry Watts in recognition of his determining the quantum and form performance as Executive Chairman prior structure of any buyout, including any to Admission to reflect their contribution to performance conditions attached to any the Company prior to Admission.
The final forfeited awards, the likelihood of those tranche of these awards vested during 2016. conditions being met, and the proportion of There are no further outstanding awards the vesting performance period remaining.
The service contracts for new appointments will be consistent with the policy described below.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the organisation, the policy of the Group is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive is appointed following an acquisition of, or merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
80 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Executive Director service contracts and payments for loss of office The key employment terms and other conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by either the Group or the Executive Director.
This is also the policy for new recruits.
Benefits The Group may agree that certain benefits will be specified within the Executive Directors service contracts.
The current Executive Directors are contractually entitled to private medical insurance for the Executive Director and his family, permanent health assurance, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment for the Executive Director and their spouse and a car allowance.
Termination It is the Groups policy that service contracts contain provisions that allow the Group to terminate employment by payment making a payment in lieu of notice PILON equivalent to i 12 months base salary, and ii the cost of specific benefits including retirement benefits.
Upon termination by the Group, the Group can determine whether a PILON is made as a single lump sum or paid in instalments, subject to mitigation.
Where the sum is paid in instalments, the Executive Director has a duty to use reasonable endeavours to secure alternative employment as soon as reasonably practicable.
In the event the Executive Director commences alternative employment with an annual salary of greater than 30,000, there will be a pro rata reduction in the PILON payments.
Immediate The service contract of an Executive Director may also be terminated immediately and with no liability to make termination payment in certain circumstances, such as the Executive Director bringing the Group into disrepute or committing a fundamental breach of their employment obligations.
External Executive Directors may accept one position as a non-executive director of another publicly listed company that is appointments not a competitor of the Group, subject to prior approval of the Board.
External appointments to any other company and treatment of any fees are also subject to the prior approval of the Board.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Group and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans in which they participate.
Where an Executive Directors employment with the Group ceases prior to the payment of the annual bonus in respect of a financial year, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine whether any bonus should be paid and the extent to which deferral into shares should be applied.
Any awards would normally be prorated.
For bonuses in respect of 2015 onwards, clawback provisions will also apply.
For the avoidance of doubt, in the event the Executive Director is dismissed for misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
The treatment of share awards made by the Company is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which Executive Directors may currently hold awards.
Leaver reasons where awards Plan may continue to vest Vesting arrangements Deferred Bonus Plan Death LTIP awards will vest to the extent determined by the Committee, which, unless DBP and LTIP Injury, ill health or the Committee determines otherwise, will be calculated on the basis of the disability achievement of any performance conditions at the relevant vesting date and, Retirement unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed The transfer of the between grant and cessation of employment directorship.
individuals employing The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original vesting date, company or business although the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest out of the Group upon cessation of employment.
Any other scenario in DBP awards will normally vest in full on the original vesting date, although the which the Committee Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest earlier.
determines good leaver DBP and LTIP awards will continue to be subject to the malus provisions outlined treatment is justified on page 80 until the vesting of the awards.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 onwards are subject to a clawback provision, as described above.
Any other reason Awards lapse in full.
Directors Share Any circumstance other These awards were made in recognition of services provided to the Company Bonus Plan Legacy than dismissal for cause prior to Admission and, as such, are not subject to continued employment arrangements granted except in the case of dismissal for cause.
prior to Admission Awards vested on the first and second anniversary of Admission to the extent that the share price performance targets were met.
Dismissal for cause Awards lapse in full.
Where Executive Directors participate in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plans, the leaver treatment will be consistent with the relevant legislation and on the same terms as all other employees.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 81 GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Group seeks to appoint Non-Executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge and or specific technical skills to support the current expertise of the Board and to match the healthcare sector within which the Group operates.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or Non-Executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table below.
Fees to Non-Executive Directors will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Remuneration of independent Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee.
Directors are not involved in any decisions in relation to their own remuneration.
The table below sets out the remuneration policy with respect to Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Groups bonus arrangements, share incentive schemes or retirement benefit plans.
Approach to setting remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Opportunity Fees are set at appropriate levels to ensure Non-Executive The total fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain within Directors are paid to reflect the individual responsibility the limit stated in the Articles of Association of the Company.
taken, as well as the skills and experience of the individual.
Individual fees reflect responsibility and time commitment, as well as Fees are reviewed periodically.
the skills and experience of the individual.
Additional fees may be paid When setting fee levels, consideration is given to a number for further responsibilities, such as chairmanship of committees.
of factors, including responsibilities and market positioning.
Any benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and Where appropriate, benefits to the role may be provided.
take account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided to Travel and other reasonable expenses including fees comparable roles.
Expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of the incurred in obtaining professional advice in the furtherance role may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Group, as appropriate, of their duties and any associated taxes incurred in the including any tax due on the benefits.
Non-Executive Directors will also course of performing their duties may be paid by the be covered by the Groups indemnity insurance.
Group or reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
The fees as at 31 December 2016 were: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director: 140,000: Non-Executive Director basic: 50,000: and Committee chairmanship: 10,000.
With effect from 1 April 2017, the fees will be increased as follows: independent Non-Executive Director basic: 55,000: and Chair of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee: 15,000.
These are the first increases in Non-Executive Director fees since Admission in 2014.
Further details of remuneration arrangements for the Executive Chairman are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Under the terms of his appointment, Garry Watts is entitled to private medical expenses insurance for both himself and his spouse and any dependent children, life assurance, annual health assessment for both himself and his spouse and office facilities to perform his duties as Chairman.
Medical expenses insurance and life assurance will be provided under the Groups arrangements or, if he obtains equivalent benefits directly, the Group will meet his costs up to a specified cap.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Group or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below.
This is the policy for current and any new Non-Executive Directors.
Provision Policy Period In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all independent Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each annual general meeting.
After the initial three-year term, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Termination The appointment of the Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving 12 months notice.
The appointment of the Deputy Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving three months notice.
The appointment of any independent Non-Executive Directors is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving two months notice.
The Non-Executive Director nominated by Mediclinic International PLC pursuant to the terms of the relationship agreement is terminable without notice.
82 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further detailed provisions The DBP and LTIP, as well as the outstanding legacy Directors Share Bonus Awards, will be operated in accordance with the relevant plan rules which were summarised for shareholders in the Prospectus.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the relevant plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off corporate events, such as a change in the Groups capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
The performance conditions applicable to incentive awards may be amended on an appropriate basis determined by the Committee, if an event occurs or circumstances arise that cause the Committee to consider the performance condition is no longer a fair measure of performance and, in the case of the Directors Share Bonus Awards, the Committee determines fairly and reasonably that the circumstances prevailing at grant have changed.
For LTIP and Directors Share Bonus Awards, the amended performance condition will be at least as challenging as the original condition.
Under the DBP, LTIP and Directors Share Bonus Awards, participants may receive an additional amount, in cash or shares, to take account of the value of dividends the participant would have received on the shares that vest.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, LTIP awards may vest to the extent that the Committee determines, taking into account the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied, and such other factors as the Committee considers relevant in the circumstances, provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, awards will be adjusted to reflect the period of time that has elapsed between grant and cessation of employment directorship: DBP awards will normally vest in full: and Legacy Share Bonus Awards may vest based on the per-share price payable to shareholders on the relevant transaction, or, in the case of a winding-up, the share price at the time.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The Committee may make any remuneration payments including vesting of incentives and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were agreed before this policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
The DBP and LTIP incorporate dilution limits.
These limits are 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling 10-year period for executive share plans.
Shares issued out of treasury will count towards these limits for so long as this is required under institutional shareholder guidelines.
Shares issued, or to be issued, pursuant to any awards granted on or before the date of Admission will not count towards these limits.
In addition, awards that lapse shall be disregarded for the purposes of these limits.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The Policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration across the Group.
When making decisions in respect of the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions for employees throughout the Group.
As stated in the policy table, salary increases are, in practice, normally aligned to the general employee population.
The Committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for all employees The remuneration of the wider employee population is based on the same reward philosophy, whilst the components of remuneration vary with seniority.
All employees, including Executive Directors, receive a salary and role-appropriate benefits.
Role-specific annual bonus arrangements are operated across the Group.
For more senior roles, a portion of the bonus is deferred on a similar basis to Executive Directors.
Only senior individuals who can have significant influence on the performance of the Group as a whole are invited to participate in the long-term incentive plans.
This provides those individuals with an incentive to help achieve the Groups mediumand long-term objectives and create shareholder value, whilst ensuring their remuneration varies to the extent these goals are achieved.
Consideration of shareholder views The structure of remuneration for Board members was first presented to shareholders in the Prospectus prior to Admission.
It is next intended to present the Remuneration Policy to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting in 2018 unless any alterations are required before then.
The Committee is always mindful of shareholders views when evaluating and setting future remuneration strategy, and intends to appropriately consult prior to any significant proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 83
