Directors Report Remuneration Report Committee Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder, The Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees Directors Remuneration Report believes it is very important that for the year to 31 March 2016. overall remuneration is strongly The objective of this report is to set out in a clear and transparent way how SSE pays its Executive aligned to SSEs purpose and strategy.
Directors: how this links to the Companys purpose and strategy: and how the Committee works, mindful as it is of the expectations of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Linking Executive Directors remuneration with SSEs purpose and strategy The Committee believes it is very important that our overall remuneration policy is strongly aligned to SSEs purpose and strategy: it aims to ensure this through the following approach: - Simplicity Our Executive Directors pay is made up of just four elements: base salary and benefits: a pension: a performancebased annual incentive scheme cash and shares : and a performance-based long-term incentive scheme shares.
- Balance We assess performance through a balanced range of measures to ensure we cover all aspects of our Executive Directors performance.
We also align Executive Directors performance related salary increases with those of the other employees of SSE.
- Customer focus Reflecting our commitment to customers, we include customer service measures in both the annual incentive and the long-term incentive the performance share plan PSP.
- Delivery Dividends and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance continue to feature strongly in our incentive framework to ensure Executive Directors interests are aligned with those of our shareholders.
- Stewardship Executive Directors are expected to look to the long term and are required to build and maintain a significant personal shareholding in the business: Members and meetings furthermore a two-year holding period extends the overall time horizon of our PSP to five years.
Independent non-Executive Attended In addition from 2016 17 onwards, we are Members Director Member since scheduled proposing to introduce career deferral whereby deferred shares are not released until 12 months Katie Bickerstaffe Yes July 2011 4 4 after the director leaves the company.
Committee Chairman Jeremy Beeton Yes July 2014 4 4 Through this approach, we believe that SSEs 1 remuneration policy addresses potential areas Crawford Gillies Yes August 2015 3 3 of concern for shareholders and reflects wider Richard Gillingwater CBE n a June 2007 4 4 stakeholder interests as well.
2 Lord Smith of Kelvin n a March 2005 1 1 Changes to our Policy for 2016 17 As highlighted in last years Directors 1 Crawford Gillies joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
Remuneration Report, during 2015 we 2 Lord Smith of Kelvin retired from the Board on 23 July 2015. undertook a wide ranging review of the remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors to ensure these arrangements were fair and reasonable, and also relevant and aligned with our strategy.
Following this review, we are proposing to make a number of changes to the structure of our remuneration package, in line with the core principles previously set out: 92 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
- Career deferral the most significant change 150% of salary and from 100% to 130% - Annual Incentive Plan AIP : The out-turn we are proposing to the structure of our of salary for our Finance Director: and under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP was Executive Directors remuneration package is - Performance Share Plan opportunity to determined against a set of financial, strategic to introduce career deferral.
This will extend the increase from 150% to 200% of salary for and personal targets set at the beginning of time period that deferred shares, arising from our Chief Executive and 150% to 175% of the year.
This resulted in an outcome of 54% annual incentive awards, are held to until a year salary for our Finance Director.
We have set after an Executive Director steps down from out details of SSEs performance against the We have historically set stretching targets for both their position.
We believe this new innovative AIP measures and targets on page 105. the annual incentive and PSP, as demonstrated by arrangement aligns the Executive Directors - Performance Share Plan PSP : For PSP our historically conservative payouts, and targets interests to the long-term stewardship of awards granted in 2013, which were due to will remain challenging and stretching going the Company, including importantly, the vest following the end of the 2015 16 financial forward.
Following our shareholder consultation sustainability of SSE post leaving.
period, measurement of performance over exercise and against the context of increased - Increase in percentage deferred in the three year period resulted in no pay-out, incentive levels, we decided to introduce more addition to extending the time period reflecting that the targets were set in very stretching targets for the PSP.
The Committee deferred shares are required to be held, different market conditions.
confirmed that the current approach of using we are proposing to increase the percentage a balanced range of performance measures Next steps of the annual incentive that will be deferred continues to be appropriate.
I hope that this Report fulfils its objective of into shares from 25% to 33%.
setting out in a clear and transparent way SSEs - Pensionable salary cap we are also We believe that the balance of the proposed changes approach to Executive Directors remuneration proposing to decrease the emphasis on to Executive Director packages, as well as other and the key decisions relating to it that were pension by capping future pensionable recent structural changes such as the two year PSP taken in the year.
I believe that a remuneration salary increases at RPI 1%.
holding period, provides a conservative but more policy based on simplicity, balance, customer competitive remuneration structure designed to These changes are in addition to other recent focus, delivery and stewardship is the right one promote long-term stewardship and commitment.
structural changes including the introduction for a company which has the core purpose of of a two-year holding period for the PSP, post providing the energy people need in a reliable We, as the Remuneration Committee of SSE, value vesting, and the increase in share ownership and sustainable way.
the views of our shareholders and as part of our guidelines to 200% of base pay.
review we consulted with our largest shareholders, At our AGM in 2015, we were pleased to receive as well as the Investment Association and As part of this wide ranging review, we also overwhelming support from shareholders for Institutional Shareholder Services on these looked at incentive opportunity levels taking our Remuneration Report, with 98% of votes proposals at the beginning of 2016.
We welcomed into consideration any retention risk and the cast in favour.
Listed companies are now and took on board the feedback from these marketability of our Executive Directors, the required to submit separate ordinary resolutions meetings and we hope that you will support complexity and challenges of the Executive for approval by shareholders and at our AGM in the proposals at our 2016 AGM, where a new Director role in the environment that SSE now 2016, shareholders will have the opportunity to Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholder vote.
operates in, and giving appropriate consideration vote on the following: to what we believe is a fair and reasonable - The Directors Remuneration Report.
This Performance related arrangement for the breadth and depth of is a required annual advisory vote relating to pay out-turns in 2015 16 roles being undertaken.
Directors remuneration paid in the previous 2015 16 was once again a challenging year for financial year, and setting out how the the energy sector and for SSE.
Managing the Levels of variable pay were last reviewed over Directors Remuneration Policy will be balance between providing energy that is secure, eight years ago, when there were four Executive implemented in the forthcoming year.
affordable and reliable, whilst meeting Directors and have remained unchanged since.
This regulatory and climate change obligations In that time, the environment in which SSE was last reviewed in 2014 and although this continues to be a focal point.
Similarly, doing operates has become significantly more complex is only required every three years, the more for customers, providing excellent and challenging, and the role of our Executive Remuneration Committee has decided to customer service and building customers trust Directors has changed as a result of this.
submit a new policy for approval this year is an ongoing priority.
Despite the challenges, reflecting the proposed changes outlined above.
While the issue of fair and appropriate SSE remains a resilient and diverse business, - A new Performance Share Plan.
The arrangements was the principal consideration with a strong commitment to operational existing Performance Share Plan, was for the Committee, in my role as chair, I believed efficiency and delivering value for both approved by shareholders in 2006 and that it was important to have available relevant customers and investors.
The new plan reflects the reference points to further inform our thinking.
believes that the Executive Directors have made proposed changes outlined.
As such, current incentive arrangements were strong progress in leading the Company through reviewed against relevant external benchmarks these challenges, whilst maintaining a balance I hope that our shareholder consultation exercise which highlighted that current incentive opportunity between meeting short-term goals and the and the context in this report will provide levels are significantly below market levels.
long-term success of the Company.
In so doing, shareholders with the information they need to they have demonstrated judgement, resilience, continue to support our remuneration resolutions.
Given the background and context described and adherence to the Companys core values.
above, the Committee feels that it is right to - Base Salary: We reviewed salary levels for As always, I would welcome any feedback or increase the overall incentive opportunity to levels Executive Directors looking at a number comments on this Report.
We will continue to which are more commensurate with the size and of factors, including individual performance endeavour to report remuneration matters with complexity of the organisation, but which would and increases awarded to the wider SSE clarity and transparency and would welcome continue to position SSE conservatively against employee population.
The Executive any suggestions on how we can add to those a range of relevant benchmarks.
The proposed Directors will both receive a salary increase qualities in the future.
changes are as follows: of 2.4% effective from 1 April 2016, which is - Annual Incentive Plan opportunity for our in line with the average performance based Katie Bickerstaffe Chief Executive to increase from 100% to salary increases for other employees in SSE.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 93 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued At a Glance SSEs performance in 2015 16 Executive Directors remuneration is strongly linked to Company performance.
The table below shows some of SSEs financial and non-financial highlights in 2015 16.
Earnings per share 119.5p Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked 124.1p in 2014 15 0.23 in 2014 15 Adjusted profit before tax 1,510m Strong performance in the Citizens Advice Energy Supplier 1,564.7m in 2014 15 Performance Report Investment and capital expenditure 1,618.7m Electricity distribution estimated incentive performance c. 23m 1,475.3m in 2014 15 c. 6.5m in 2014 15 Contribution to UK economy 8.9bn 77% employee engagement index 8.8bn in 2014 15 4% increase on 2014 15 Remuneration Principles and Strategy The Remuneration Committee believes it is important that overall remuneration policy is strongly aligned to the purpose and strategy through the following approach: Simplicity Customer focus Balance Delivery Stewardship Executive Directors pay Customer service A balanced range of Dividends and Total Executive Directors is made up of just measures are included measures used to ensure Shareholder Return are expected to look four elements base in both the annual all aspects of Executive TSR measures align to the long term and salary and benefits, incentive and PSP.
Directors overall Executive Directors build and maintain pension, an annual performance interests with significant personal incentive, and are covered.
shareholdings in the a long-term incentive.
Providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way Financial objectives Consistent strategy Long-term values TSR P EPS PBT P DPS P P Cashflow P Customer P P Teamwork P Personal P P Remuneration framework In line with the principles above, Executive Directors remuneration is made up of just four elements as set out below.
Variable Remuneration is subject to performance and, in a number of aspects, continued service with SSE.
Fixed Remuneration Variable Remuneration Base Salary and Benefits Short-term annual Car, medical insurance and Share Incentive Plan.
Annual Incentive Plan AIP 75% maximum cash and 25% deferred shares.
Linked to individual and team performance, financial and operational measures.
Pension Long-term three years Final Salary.
Performance Share Plan PSP three years plus two year holding period.
Linked to relative TSR performance against the FTSE100 and MSCI European Utilities, dividend growth, adjusted annual EPS growth and customer satisfaction.
94 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 Minimum shareholding guideline equal to 200% of base salary 1.
Executive Directors Remuneration 2015 16 The chart below shows the total remuneration received for 2015 16.
For comparison, the chart also indicates minimum, on target and maximum remuneration levels that could have been earned in the year.
Chief Executive Alistair Phillips-Davies Finance Director Gregor Alexander Total Fixed Remuneration AIP 100% PSP 150% Maximum Maximum Target 50% Target 50% Actual 2015 16 Actual 2015 16 Minimum Minimum 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Thousands Thousands Actual figures are based on the assumptions used for the single figure table on page 104.
Changes for 2016 17 As discussed in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter on pages 92 to 93, during 2015 a review of the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors was undertaken to ensure their continued relevance and alignment with our strategy.
Following this review a number of changes are proposed which are in line with SSEs core principles detailed above.
Pay element Change Rationale for change Base Salary 2.4% Effective from 1 April 2016, both Directors will receive a salary increase of 2.4%.
This is in line with average performance-based salary increases for the wider SSE population.
Career Deferral From three years post Extends the time period that deferred shares, arising from annual incentive awards, are held to award to one year until a year after an Executive Director steps down from their position.
This supports SSEs Executive after the Executive Directors commitment to the long-term sustainability and stewardship of the Company even Director steps down after leaving.
Deferral Percentage Increase from This supports the commitment to the long-term sustainability and stewardship of SSE and further 25% to 33% aligns Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders.
Pensionable Capped at RPI 1% Effective from 1 April 2017, this decreases the emphasis on pension in total reward.
Salary Increases Annual Incentive Plan CEO: 100% to 150% Variable incentive levels were last reviewed over eight years ago and have remained unchanged Opportunity FD: 100% to 130% since.
However over this time the scope and complexity of the roles have increased significantly.
Performance Share Plan CEO: 150% to 200% The environment in which SSE operates has become significantly more complex and challenging, Opportunity FD: 150% to 175% including significant additional devolution within the UK, and more complex and wide-ranging regulation.
As a result, the role of Executive Directors now includes engaging effectively with policy-makers and regulators and a wide range of stakeholders, as well as balancing value to customers and shareholders, while making the long-term investment decisions designed to sustain dividends for shareholders over the longer term.
As part of the wide ranging review, the Committee looked at incentive levels taking into consideration any retention risk, the complexity and challenges of the Executive Director role in the environment that SSE operates, and the role of incentives in supporting our strategy.
Against the background and context above, the Committee felt that it was right to increase the overall incentive opportunity to levels which are commensurate with the size and complexity of the organisation, but which would still position SSE conservatively against a range of relevant benchmark reference points.
Performance Maximum EPS growth In the context of the increase to overall incentives, the Committee increased the maximum targets Share Plan Targets target increased from for a number of PSP performance measures.
RPI 8% to RPI 10% Maximum DPS growth target increased from RPI 4% to RPI 5% 95 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy The following sets out SSEs Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
The Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at SSEs AGM on 21 July 2016 and, if approved, will apply from this date.
The key changes between this Policy and the policy which was approved by shareholders at SSEs AGM on 17 July 2014 are as follows: - A career deferral period is being introduced to the annual incentive plan, extending the time period that deferred shares are held to one year after an Executive Director steps down from their position.
This supports SSEs commitment to long-term sustainability and stewardship of SSE.
- An increase to the proportion of award to be deferred is proposed in addition to the above.
Previously, 25% of a Directors annual incentive award was deferred as shares for a period of three years.
Under the new arrangements, 33% of the award will be deferred.
- A cap on pensionable salary is to be introduced effective from 1 April 2017.
Future pensionable base pay increases will be capped at RPI 1%.
- Annual incentive and performance share plan opportunities are to increase for both Executive Directors.
Variable incentive levels were last reviewed over eight years ago and have remained unchanged since.
The new approach continues to position SSE conservatively against the market in line with SSEs pay policy.
The Chief Executives maximum AIP opportunity will increase from 100% to 150%, and maximum PSP will increase from 150% to 200%.
The Finance Directors maximum AIP opportunity will increase from 100% to 130% and maximum PSP will increase from 150% to 175%.
Remuneration Policy Base Salary Purpose The base salary supports the retention and recruitment of Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop the Companys and link strategy, deliver efficient operations and investments, and engage effectively with the Companys key stakeholders.
It is intended to strategy to reflect the role and its responsibilities, business and individual performance measured against SSEs strategy and core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way, and to have an awareness of competitive market pressures.
Operation The Committee sets base salary taking into account: - the individuals skills, experience and performance: - salary levels at other FTSE100 companies and other energy businesses: - remuneration of different groups of employees and wider internal pay arrangements: and - the overall policy objective to remain below market median on a total remuneration basis for the FTSE 20-50 excluding financial services companies.
Base salary is normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 April.
It may be reviewed more frequently or at different times of the year if the Committee determines this is appropriate.
Maximum While there is no maximum salary level, salary increases will normally be in line with the typical level of increase awarded to other opportunity employees in the Company.
However, increases may be above this level in certain circumstances, including but not limited to: - where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at an initially lower base salary with the intention that larger salary increases would be awarded for an initial period of time as the Executive Director gains experience: - where there has been a significant increase in the scope and responsibility of an Executive Directors role or where they have been promoted: and - where a larger increase is considered necessary to reflect significant changes in market practice.
Performance The overall performance of the Executive Directors in ensuring that SSE fulfils its core purpose of providing the energy people need measures and, delivers its strategic focus on efficient operations and disciplined investment and achieves key financial objectives is considered by the Remuneration Committee when setting and reviewing salaries annually.
Pension Purpose Pension planning is an important part of SSEs remuneration strategy because it is consistent with the long-term goals and horizons and link of the business.
to strategy The pension supports the Companys ability to retain experienced Executive Directors and develop talent internally.
Operation The current Executive Directors participate in either the Southern Electric Pension Scheme or the Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme.
These schemes are funded final salary subject to the cap on future increases in pensionable pay described below pension schemes.
Where an Executive Director is subject to the scheme-specific salary cap which mirrors the provisions of the previous HMRC cap arrangements the Company provides top-up unfunded arrangements UURBS up to the maximum benefit outlined below.
The Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate for new appointments to the Board, and would also determine the value of such arrangements.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Committee will give regard to cost, market practice and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Company.
Maximum For existing Executive Directors, the pension arrangements provide for a maximum pension of two-thirds of final salary, normally at opportunity age 60.
From 1 April 2017, future pensionable pay increases will be capped at RPI 1% regardless of the level of any actual increases in salaries.
measures Benefits Purpose To provide a market-competitive level of benefits for Executive Directors.
and link to strategy Operation Benefit policy is to provide an appropriate level of benefit taking into account market practice at similar sized companies and the level of benefits provided for other employees in the Company.
Core benefits Benefits currently include car allowance, private medical insurance and health screening.
All-employee share plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share plans on the same terms as UK colleagues.
The Company currently operates the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
Relocation policy In the event that an Executive Director was required to re-locate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide additional reasonable benefits either on a one-off or on-going basis to reflect the relevant circumstances.
The Committee may introduce or remove particular benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
Maximum When determining the level of benefits the Committee will consider the factors outlined in the Operation section.
opportunity The cost will depend on the cost to the Company of providing individual items and the individuals circumstances and therefore there is no maximum benefit level.
measures 97 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy Annual incentive plan AIP Purpose In line with the need to achieve a suitable balance of fixed and variable remuneration the purpose of the AIP is to reward Executive Directors and link performance during the year, based upon achievement of performance targets.
The performance targets are linked to SSEs strategy and to strategy core purpose.
Compulsory deferral into Company shares provides alignment between Executive Directors interests and the long-term interests of shareholders.
With effect from the 2016 17 performance year, this alignment will be reinforced as the deferral will take the form of an award of career shares, which are shares that cannot be disposed of until after the Executive Director has stepped down.
The Committee determines the level of incentive at its absolute discretion taking into account performance in each of the measures, Operation the underlying performance of the business and Executive Directors management of, and performance in, all of the business issues that arise during the year.
Performance is typically assessed over a financial year.
For the 2015 16 performance year, the award will be delivered 75% in cash and 25% in deferred shares.
Deferred shares will normally vest three years from the award and will typically be subject to continued employment.
Until vesting, the awards may accrue additional dividend shares.
Dividend equivalents may be determined by the Committee on a cumulative basis and may assume reinvestment of dividends in the Companys shares.
From the 2016 17 performance year, the award will normally be delivered: - 67% in cash: and - 33% in deferred shares, which will be granted as a career share award The Committee may determine that a different balance of cash and deferred shares may be awarded.
For the 2016 17 annual incentive year and thereafter, deferred shares will be granted in the form of a career share award under the Deferred Scheme.
Career share awards will normally vest three years from the award date unless the Committee determines an alternative vesting period is appropriate with accrual of dividends over that period as described above.
Following vesting, the after-tax number of shares under the career share award will be held in a nominee account until the first anniversary of the cessation of the Executive Directors employment with the Company irrespective of the circumstances of such cessation or, if earlier, until death or the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
In the event that the Committee implements the career deferral holding period in such a way that Executives do not have beneficial ownership of the shares, dividends may accrue or be paid during the holding period following vesting.
Deferred shares granted under the Deferred Scheme in respect of the 2015 16 annual incentive year will not be subject to any mandatory post-vesting holding period, except as otherwise required by the Companys shareholding policy from time to time.
In certain circumstances as set out in the plan rules the Committee may at its discretion apply malus to outstanding awards under the AIP or unvested career share awards prior to the relevant vesting or payment date, and or claw back the cash or share portion of awards under the AIP for up to three years after the cash payment date of the relevant award.
The Committee may adjust and amend the terms of the career share awards in accordance with the Deferred Scheme rules.
Maximum Maximum annual incentive opportunity is equal to 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 130% of base salary for the opportunity Finance Director.
Performance The annual incentive is normally based on a mix of financial measures and measures related to the strategic performance of the business.
measures A minimum of 50% of the annual incentive will be based on financial performance.
The strategic performance of the business is generally determined with reference to its core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way and therefore normally includes matters such as safety, customer service in the Retail and Networks divisions and investment decision-making and execution, as well as the personal performance of the Executive Directors.
The Committee determines the exact metrics each year depending on the key strategic objectives for the forthcoming year and ensures that they are appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan.
In determining the final out-turn the Committee considers Executive Directors management of, and performance in, all of the business issues that arose during the year.
The Committee may review the detailed targets and weightings of measures year on year, as well as the appropriate threshold levels of vesting and performance.
Around 50% of the incentive is paid if target levels of performance are delivered with the full incentive being paid for delivering stretching levels of performance.
The part of the AIP that is deferred in the form of deferred shares or a career share award is not subject to any further performance conditions.
Performance share plan PSP Purpose The purpose of the PSP is to reward Executive Directors, over a three year performance period and a further two year holding period, and link for their part in delivering the sustained success of SSE and to ensure that their interests are aligned with those of the shareholders who to strategy invest in the Company.
Shares are awarded which normally vest based on performance over a period of three years.
Awards granted to Executive Directors will be Operation subject to an additional two year post-vesting holding period during which time the Executive must retain the post-tax number of shares vesting under the award.
The Committee shall determine the extent to which the performance conditions have been met.
No shares shall vest unless the Committee is satisfied with the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Awards do not vest until after the end of the performance period.
Until vesting, PSP awards may accrue additional dividend shares.
In certain circumstances set out in the PSP rules the Committee may at its discretion apply malus to outstanding awards prior to vesting and or claw back vested awards for up to three years after the vesting date of the relevant award.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the PSP rules.
Maximum The maximum value of award that can be granted under the PSP is equal to 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 175% opportunity of base salary for the Finance Director.
Performance The Committee determines targets each year to ensure that they are stretching and represent value creation for shareholders while measures remaining realistically achievable for management.
Awards vest based on relative total shareholder return, financial based measures and customer satisfaction.
At least 70% of the award will be based on financial and relative total shareholder return measures.
Share ownership policy Purpose A key element of Executive Director pay policy is to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders who invest and link in the Company.
to strategy Operation Shareholding is normally built up via shares vesting through the PSP, deferred shares from the AIP and all employee share schemes.
Vested career shares under the Deferred Scheme which, except in certain circumstances, must be retained for one year postcessation of employment may also count towards the Executive Directors shareholding.
Maximum Executive Directors are expected to maintain a shareholding equivalent to two times base salary built up within a reasonable timescale.
opportunity Consent to sell shares is not normally given unless in exceptional circumstances until this level of shareholding is reached.
measures Chairman and non-Executive Director fees Purpose Fees are set at a level which provides reward for undertaking the role and are sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the calibre and link and experience to contribute effectively at Board level.
to strategy Operation The Committee is responsible for determining fees for the Chairman.
The Board is responsible for determining fees for other nonExecutive Directors.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals against companies of a similar size and complexity.
Fees are set in a way that is consistent with the wider remuneration policy.
The fee structure may be made up of: - a basic Board fee or Chairman fee: - an additional fee for any committee chairmanship or membership: and - an additional fee for further responsibilities e. g. Senior Independent Director, or periods of increased activity.
99 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy Chairman and non-Executive Director fees continued Operation Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Annual Incentive Plan, Deferred Bonus Scheme or any of the share schemes, continued or contribute to any group pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive any benefits.
Benefits may, however, be provided in the future for non-Executive Directors if in the view of the Board this was considered appropriate and they may also be provided in the future for the Chairman if in the view of the Committee this was considered appropriate.
Reasonable travelling and other expenses for costs incurred in the course of the non-Executive Directors undertaking their duties are reimbursed including any tax due on the expenses.
It is also expected that all non-Executive Directors should build up a minimum of 2,000 shares in the Company.
Maximum The aggregate level of non-Executive Director fees shall not exceed the maximum limit set out in the Articles of Association.
opportunity Performance While there are no direct performance measures relating to Chairman and non-Executive Director fees, the performance of the Board measures is subject to annual evaluation, including individual evaluation.
Committee discretion All incentive awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which awards are made.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards in accordance with the provisions of the relevant plan rules.
This includes, but is not limited to, the following discretions: - In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or reserves, or a demerger, special dividend, rights issue or other event, the number of shares subject to an Award and or any performance condition attached to Awards, may be adjusted.
- The Committee may adjust PSP performance conditions for subsisting awards as it considers appropriate to take account of any factors which are relevant in the opinion of the Committee, for example to reflect modifications of accounting standards.
- In the event of a voluntary winding-up of the Company, the Committee may allow some or all of the outstanding PSP awards to vest and be deemed exercised on the date the resolution for the winding-up is passed.
The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation or corporate governance requirements or guidance without seeking shareholder approval for that amendment.
Legacy commitments The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretion available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 17 July 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder approved directors remuneration policy came into effect ii before this Policy came into effect provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed or, iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
As well as remuneration payments and payments for loss of office under the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders on 17 July 2014, this includes commitments relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements which were made before 27 June 2012.
Payments includes the Committee sanctioning awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Any payments made outside of the remuneration Policy pursuant to legacy commitments will be disclosed in full in the relevant years Annual Report.
Directors service contracts and non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Current Executive Directors have service contracts terminable by the Company immediately without notice upon breach by the individual or by the Company giving to the individual 12 months notice or, at its discretion, payment in lieu of salary only during that notice.
The payment in lieu of notice may be made in staged payments, and may either reduce or cease completely where the departing Executive Director gains new employment.
The Executive Director may terminate his contract by giving the Company 12 months notice.
Contracts for new Executive Directors will be limited to 12months notice by both parties or payment in lieu of notice in respect of the Company.
The non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, and are appointed for fixed terms of three years, subject to retirement and re-appointment at AGMs.
Non-Executive Directors on termination are not entitled to any payment in lieu of notice or any compensation for loss of office.
The letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view on www.
Loss of office policy The Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for Executive Directors: - The Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations provided they are consistent with the Policy or have been entered into on a date on or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with relevant legislation.
- The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules, as set out below.
- The Committee may determine that the Executive Director should receive outplacement support and legal advice at the expense of the Company and any payments required by statute.
The Company may at its discretion terminate any Executive Directors contract by providing notice or payment in lieu of notice as set out above.
AIP The Executive Director may, at the discretion of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an AIP award for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Any such AIP award will be determined by the Committee taking into account time in employment and performance.
If an AIP award is received in such cases it will not be subject to deferral into deferred shares.
Deferred and career shares If an Executive Directors employment terminates in circumstances such as death, injury, disability, ill-health as agreed by the Committee or other circumstances that the Committee deems appropriate, unvested deferred and career shares shall vest in full at the time of termination of employment.
If an Executive Director leaves the business in other circumstances their deferred shares and unvested career shares shall lapse.
Vested career shares shall not lapse.
Vested awards in the form of career shares shall, except in the case of death or change of control, be released one year after cessation of employment, irrespective of the reason for such cessation.
Performance share plan If an Executive Directors employment terminates in circumstances such as death, injury, disability, ill-health as agreed by the Committee or other circumstances that the Committee deems appropriate, PSP shares may continue to vest.
The PSP shares will normally be reduced to reflect the time elapsed in the three-year performance period when the Directors employment ends and will normally remain subject to performance at the end of the performance period.
The Committee may determine, in exceptional circumstances, that PSP shares may be released at the time of cessation of employment.
In this circumstance, it will determine the level of vesting taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met at the time subject to modification if the Committee considers that the performance condition would be met to a greater or lesser extent at the end of the original performance period and the period the Executive Director has been in employment.
The Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating or alter the time pro-rating fraction if it considers that the Executive Directors contribution to the business of the Company would not otherwise be properly recognised for awards under the 2006 PSP, this discretion is limited to circumstances where the Committee determines that PSP shares shall vest for reasons other than death, disability or ill health.
In this circumstance, the vesting of PSP shares would remain subject to performance until the end of the performance period.
If the Executive Directors employment ends for any other reason, unvested PSP share awards will lapse.
Vested PSP shares which are subject to a mandatory holding period will not lapse as a result of cessation of employment for any reason.
Pension Where an Executive retires through ill-health they are entitled to an unreduced pension based on service to expected retirement.
In the event of any reorganisation or redundancy, Executives who are aged 50 or more with at least five years of service will be provided with an unreduced accrued pension.
If an Executive has not reached age 50 at the time of this event their pension will be paid from age 50.
From age 55 Executives are entitled to leave the Company and receive a pension, reduced for early payment, unless the Company gives consent and funds the pension being paid on an unreduced basis.
Dependent upon the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Executive Director and the financial health of the Company at the time, the Committees policy is to give consideration to a cash commutation of the UURB pension at the time of leaving.
Any cash commutation would limit SSEs liability, taking into account valuations provided by independent actuarial advisors, and would be undertaken on what was judged by the Committee to be on a cost neutral basis to SSE.
The following is information relating to the pension of Gregor Alexander as a participant in the HMRC approved Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme the terms of which also apply to the UURBS arrangement.
i Dependants pensions on death are half of members pension entitlements, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to half of that payable to the Director.
In addition, on death within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years pension payments.
ii Post retirement increases are expected to be in line with RPI.
The following is information relating to the pension of Alistair Phillips-Davies, as a participant in the HMRC approved Southern Electric Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, the terms of which also apply to the UURBS arrangement.
i Dependants pensions on death are four-ninths of the members pensionable pay, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
If death occurs after attaining the age of 55 an additional lump sum between three to five times notional pension is payable dependent upon age and length of service.
101 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Policy Loss of office policy continued ii On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to two-thirds of that payable to the Director.
iii Post retirement increases are expected to be in line with RPI guaranteed up to the level of 5% per annum and discretionary above that level.
Other arrangements If buyout awards are made on recruitment, the treatment on leaving would be determined at the time of the award.
For all-employee share plans, such as the Sharesave Scheme and the Share Incentive Plan, leavers will be treated in accordance with the HMRC approved plan rules.
Change of control On a change of control, Executive Directors awards will be treated in accordance with the rules of the applicable plan s. In summary, in the event of a change of control of the Company, performance in the PSP will be measured to that date subject to modification if the Committee considers that the performance conditions would be met to a greater or lesser extent at the end of the original performance period.
Awards will normally be scaled down to reflect the period up to the change of control, but the Committee has discretion to dis-apply or alter the pro-rating fraction if it considers that participants contribution to the creation of shareholder value during the performance period would not otherwise be properly recognised.
Any outstanding unvested deferred or career shares from the AIP will vest automatically, and any vested shares subject to a holding period will be released.
Recruitment policy The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration package offered with its remuneration policy outlined on page 96 and would be subject to the variable pay limit outlined below.
Base salary would be set taking into account the individuals skills and experience and performance, salary levels at other FTSE 100 companies and other energy businesses, remuneration of different groups of employees, and the wider internal pay arrangements.
The Committee will determine appropriate pension provision for any new Executive Director.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice and the pension arrangements which operate elsewhere in the Company.
The Committee retains the flexibility to provide a higher variable remuneration opportunity for a new recruit.
For example, where the value of pension offered is lower than that offered to current Executive Directors, a higher level of incentive opportunity may be required to maintain broadly comparable total remuneration positioning.
More generally, it is considered appropriate for the Policy to provide some flexibility given the current conservative positioning of SSEs incentive arrangements.
The over-riding objective in determining a total remuneration package for a new recruit would be to make decisions which are in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders and other stakeholders.
In this context the on-going variable incentive maxima currently, for the Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively, 150% and 130% annual incentive and 200% and 175% PSP may be increased.
Were an increase to be made for a new recruit the Committee would consider very carefully the appropriate level, taking into account the rationale and circumstances.
The maximum annual incentive level would be 150% and the maximum PSP would be 225%.
Note: These incentive maximums have not increased from the recruitment maximums approved by shareholders when the first Policy was adopted on 17 July 2014.
The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would have vested.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
To facilitate these awards, the Committee may make awards under Company incentive plans and other available structures.
The committee may make awards under Company incentive plans and under the Listing Rules exemption in LR9.4.
2 which allows Companies to make grants to a director to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of that director.
The use of the latter shall be limited to the granting of buy-out awards or share awards within the limits described above.
Shareholders views The Committee Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, consulted with SSEs largest shareholders in developing the new Policy, as well as representatives from the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder Services.
This included a number of meetings which allowed a discussion of the proposals in the context of SSEs business strategy and the environment in which it operates.
The feedback received was extremely helpful in informing the Committees decisions.
More generally, the Committee Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, periodically undertakes consultation with a number of institutional shareholders regarding a broad range of remuneration issues.
The Committee finds such consultation meetings a valuable opportunity to receive feedback on the work of the Committee and the key issues that it is considering.
The feedback received is extremely helpful in informing the Committees decisions.
In addition, the Committee also monitors the views of other stakeholders and broader developments in executive remuneration generally.
Remuneration engagement across the Company The Committee appreciates the importance of an appropriate relationship between the remuneration levels of the Executive Directors, senior executives, managers and other employees within the Company although comparison metrics are not used.
Remuneration at all levels in SSE is designed to support its core remuneration principles, long-term business strategy and core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
It is also designed to be consistent with and support the Companys core values of Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
The structure of reward necessarily differs based on scope and responsibility of role, level of seniority and location.
- The senior management population also participate in annual and long-term incentive arrangements.
In line with Executive Directors arrangements, incentives for senior management have an emphasis on share awards and the performance metrics support those used at Board level.
- All employees have the opportunity to be share owners through the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Plan and those participating are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
- Pension planning is an important part of SSEs reward strategy for all employees because it is consistent with the long-term goals and horizons of the business, an approach it has been practising for a number of years.
The terms of the funded final salary pension schemes apply equally to all members.
- As part of its Employee Engagement Survey the Company invites all employees to provide a view on the benefits and pay that it provides.
The Head of Reward also provides an annual update to all SSE-recognised trade unions, explaining the Companys position on executive remuneration.
This covers many of the policy positions explained in this report.
Feedback from this meeting is shared with the Remuneration Committee.
The Company will continue to liaise with employee representative bodies in the future and welcomes their views and opinions on remuneration issues.
Illustration of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 17 Chief Executive Finance Director Allistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander 5,000 5,000 PSP AIP 4,000 4,000 Base salary, benefits, pension 40% 3,000 3,000 38% 31% 30% 2,000 2,000 28% 23% 28% 21% 1,000 1,000 100% 45% 29% 100% 50% 34% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum The charts above are based on the current Executive Directors packages and show the amount of remuneration payable in three scenarios: 1 minimum performance where only base salary, benefits and pension is payable, 2 target performance and 3 maximum performance.
Underlying assumptions Minimum performance In this scenario only the fixed pay elements are payable i. e. base salary, benefits and pension calculated as: - Base salary effective from 1 April 2016.
- Benefits represent those shown on the single figure table on page 104.
- Pension is the value of accrual in a typical year using the same valuation methodology as in the single figure table on page 104.
Base salary Benefits Pension Total CEO 844,104 24,430 354,298 1,222,832 FD 652,424 20,764 335,298 1,008,486 Target performance This is what the Executive Director would receive in addition to the minimum performance element, if the Committee agreed that target level performance had been achieved: - AIP pays out 50% of maximum opportunity.
- PSP pays out 50% of maximum opportunity.
Maximum performance This is what the Executive Director would receive in addition to the minimum performance element, if the Committee agreed that the maximum level performance had been achieved: - AIP pays out 150% of base salary for the CEO and 130% for the FD.
- PSP pays out 200% of base salary for the CEO and 175% for the FD.
Notes The AIP figures are the gross value of the awards before 33% is converted into deferred career shares.
The PSP awards are shown simply as the gross face value at the date of grant and do not include any assumptions for share price growth or dividend accrual.
