Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Directors Remuneration Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Roger Yates Chair of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors This Report includes disclosure of performance targets and the outcome Remuneration Report for 2016 which sets out the new Directors for the annual bonus for 2016.
The Committee determined that 96.67% Remuneration Policy for approval by shareholders at the AGM, how the of the maximum annual bonus should be payable for 2016, reflecting the current Directors Remuneration Policy was applied in 2016 and, subject strong financial results for 2016 and strong progress against strategic to shareholder approval of the new Directors Remuneration Policy, how objectives set by the Committee at the start of the year, which are fully it will be implemented in 2017. explained in the report.
Fifty percent of the bonus is deferred into shares for three years.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY POLICY AND THE CORPORATE STRATEGY REMUNERATION FOR 2017 The current Policy was approved by the shareholders in 2014 and The Committee considered the overall remuneration arrangements for continued to operate in 2015 and 2016.
The Policy has been reviewed the Executive Directors in 2017 in accordance with the Policy and has during 2016 and it is submitted for shareholder approval at the 2017 decided to award an increase of 3% in the base salaries of the Executive AGM.
No material changes are proposed.
The Policy for approval is set Directors for 2017 which is in line with the overall increase of base out on pages 96 to 99.
As with the current Policy, it supports the Groups salaries for the workforce.
The Committee continues to monitor the business strategy in that the major part of remuneration for Executives is complexity of the responsibilities undertaken, the remuneration of staff , including both annual and longer-term generally, an element of market comparison and inflation trends from measures aligned to a balanced set of business objectives.
substantial deferral of variable remuneration into shares, and The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 2017 will remain at the requirements for Executive Directors to hold Company shares, through same levels as 2016.
Performance share awards will also be granted at the minimum shareholding thresholds and a two year post-vesting sale same level as 2016 for our CEO at 200% of salary and will increase from restriction on Performance Share Plan PSP awards.
Further detail as to 190% to 200% for our three other Executive Directors, which continues how each element of the Policy supports the strategy is set out in the to be below our shareholder approved Policy maximum.
In addition, to reflect the increased workload, regulatory responsibilities CORPORATE PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION FOR 2016 and the size of the Group, the fees of the Chair for 2017 will increase to As reported in this Report, 2016 has been another year of strong 195,700 3% increase, the base fees of the Non-executive Directors performance and our Executives remuneration for 2016 reflects this.
will increase to 61,745 3% increase, the Committee Chair fees will Based on the three-year performance to the end of 2016, 100% of the increase to 20,600 3% increase and the Senior Independent Director Executive Directors PSP awards granted in 2014 will vest in March fees will increase to 5,560 100%.
2017, as a result of relative total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS growth being above the upper end of the performance range set by the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 93 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND BEST PRACTICE The Committee has consulted with its major shareholders in relation to the proposed Policy and, in addition, the Committee ensures it is up to date with the developing views of shareholders and investor representative bodies and best practice.
Any views expressed by shareholders at general meetings of the Company or otherwise will be considered by the Committee as part of any review of the Policy.
The Committee understands the importance and increasing focus on clear and transparent disclosure of remuneration outcomes demonstrating the alignment of remuneration and performance, and the Committee believes it provides complete disclosure in this area.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE DURING 2016 During 2016 the Committees main areas of focus were on: Reviewing performance and agreeing the 2015 annual bonus payments for the Executive Directors and Code Staff as well as the 2013 PSP awards vesting in 2016 for this population: Setting the individual objectives for the 2016 annual bonus for both the Executive team and Code Staff: Setting annual targets for the 2016 annual bonus scheme and performance measures for the 2016 PSP awards 2016 salary reviews for the Executive Directors and Code Staff: Reviewing and approving the Remuneration Policy Statement in relation to Code Staff for 2016 and the list of the employees classified as Code Staff : Reviewing and approving remuneration policies including the proposed new Policy : Considering risks in relation to remuneration policies and how these are mitigated: and Updates on regulatory developments including the European Banking Authority proposals on sound remuneration policies and Solvency II remuneration requirements.
REGULATORY CHANGE The Committee is closely monitoring developments in remuneration regulation from European and UK authorities.
Should there be a need to amend policy or practice in the future, in light of these regulatory developments, the Committee will undertake consultation with major shareholders in advance of any proposed changes.
SUMMARY The Policy supports our corporate objectives and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors reflects the strong performance of the Company and management.
I hope that you will support the remuneration resolutions to be proposed at the next AGM.
If, in the meantime, you have any questions regarding remuneration then my colleagues and I on the Committee will be pleased to address them.
Roger Yates On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2017 94 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: The overall structure and maximum opportunity under the Policy OVERVIEW OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY remains unchanged.
Some changes have been made to the text of the POLICY Policy in a number of places to increase clarity.
How the Committee Operates to Set the Remuneration Policy The Committee, on behalf of the Board, draws up and recommends the Engagement with Shareholders Policy and determines the remuneration packages of the Executive The Committee engages with, and seek the views of, its major investors Directors of the Company and the Chair of the Board.
In addition, the and investor representative bodies on any significant changes to the Committee monitors the remuneration of the senior management team Policy.
The Committee also engages from time to time with including the Chief Risk Officer and his senior colleagues in the Group shareholders when considering important questions about the Risk Division and employees classified as Code Staff and Solvency II implementation of the Policy.
Views expressed by shareholders are Staff and oversees the operation of the executive long-term incentive considered by the Committee as part of any review of the Policy, or schemes and all employee share schemes.
Approach to, and Objectives of, the Policy Our Policy has been reviewed during the year, and is submitted for approval in the required triennial vote at the 2017 AGM.
The overall approach to remuneration adopted by St. Jamess Place has been in place for many years and this Policy is very little changed from that approved by shareholders in 2014.
The proposed Policy is designed to meet the following objectives: To support the retention of individuals with the experience and skills to drive the performance of the Company: To ensure remuneration is transparent and reflects the performance of the Group in the relevant year and the longer-term.
Annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunities are therefore linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets: and To align pay with the strategic objectives of the Company and the interests of our shareholders whilst giving due regard to principles of best practice and relevant regulations.
In setting the Policy for the Executive Directors, the Committee also takes into consideration a number of different factors: The Committee applies the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and also takes into account best practice guidance issued by the major UK institutional investor bodies, the PRA and FCA including the provisions of any applicable Remuneration Codes and other relevant organisations: The Committee has overall responsibility for the remuneration policies and structures for employees of the Group as a whole and it reviews remuneration policy on a firm-wide basis.
When the Committee determines and reviews the Policy it considers and compares it against the pay, policy and employment conditions of the Group to ensure that there is alignment between the two: and The Committee considers the external market in which the Group operates and uses comparator remuneration data from time to time to inform its decisions.
However, the Committee recognises that such data should be used as a guide only recognising that data can be volatile and may not be directly relevant and that there is often a need to phase-in changes over a period of time.
The Committees overall policy, having had due regard to the factors above, continues, for a substantial proportion of total remuneration, to be based on variable pay.
This is achieved by setting base pay and benefits up to mid-market levels, with annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets.
In this way the Committee facilitates alignment between the interests of shareholders and the total remuneration paid to the Executive Directors.
Historically, the levels of variable pay paid to the Executives have varied considerably, reflecting the performance of the Group in the relevant year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 95 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The following table summarises each element of the Policy, explaining how each element operates and links to corporate strategy.
The proposed Policy will be formally effective following shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
If approved, this Policy supersedes that approved by shareholders in 2014.
Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide the core reward for the role.
Sufficient level to recruit and retain individuals of the necessary calibre, taking into account the required skills, experience, demands and complexity of the role.
Operation Normally reviewed annually from 1 March.
Influenced by: Role, experience and performance of the individual: Company performance: External economic conditions: Average changes in broader workforce salary: and Periodic benchmarking for each role against similar UK listed companies.
Maximum opportunity Percentage increases will normally be capped at the level of increases for the Companys workforce generally.
Increases may be higher in exceptional circumstances, such as a change in role and or a significant change in responsibility or role size.
Where new appointees have been given a starting salary below mid-market level, increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage terms may be awarded, subject to satisfactory individual performance and development in the role.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors from 1 March 2017 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance metrics Whilst there are no targets attached to the payment of base salary, performance alongside those factors outlined above is considered in the annual salary review process.
96 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic business plan targets and delivery of key, including choice of performance non-financial objectives.
metrics Deferred element aids retention, encourages long-term shareholding, discourages excessive risk-taking and aligns with shareholder interests.
Performance metrics reflect the key performance drivers of the annual business plan, achievement of which will reflect performance in line with the Groups strategy.
Operation Performance measures, targets and weightings are reviewed annually and set in line with the annual business plan.
Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after the year end, based on performance against the targets set.
Performance below threshold results in zero payment.
Payments are on a scale from 20% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for performance between threshold and maximum.
50% of any bonus payable is paid in cash and the remaining 50% deferred into SJP shares, the vesting of which is normally subject to a three-year continuous service requirement but no further performance targets.
Dividends that accrue on the deferred shares are paid to the Executive Directors during the three-year deferral period.
All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to scale back payments under the non-financial performance scorecard if it deems them to be inappropriate in the context of the overall financial results of the Company.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to adjust the bonus outcome up or down subject to the overall 150% maximum to take account of factors such as an exceptional positive or negative event.
Withholding and recovery provisions apply to bonus awards in exceptional circumstances, such as a material misstatement, error, or misconduct.
Maximum opportunity 150% of base salary.
Performance metrics Performance is measured over one year.
At least half of the bonus is based on financial measures, reflecting the key priorities of the business for the relevant year.
Up to half of the annual bonus can be based on the achievement of key, non-financial objectives set at the start of the year.
Actual measures and weightings may change from year to year to reflect the business priorities at that time.
Details of performance criteria and targets set for the year under review and performance, against them are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 97 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy Supports long-term retention.
including choice of performance metrics Focuses the Executives on longer-term corporate performance and performance objectives.
Aligns interests to those of shareholders.
Operation Awards are normally granted annually.
Vesting is usually on the third anniversary of the date of grant, dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions measured over a period of three financial years.
Metrics, weighting and targets take account of the business plan and are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
Awards granted from 2015 are made under the Performance Share Plan approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014, and have a post-vesting holding period of two years on the shares vesting.
During this period the vested shares cannot normally be sold, other than to the extent necessary to settle tax on vesting or exercise.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on awards made between the date of grant and the end of the two year post-vesting holding period.
These dividend equivalents will be released only to the extent that awards vest.
Awards are subject to withholding and recovery provisions.
The Committee has the discretion, in certain circumstances, to grant and or settle an award in cash.
In practice, this will only be used in exceptional circumstances for Executive Directors.
Maximum opportunity The maximum annual award under the plan rules is 250% of salary as at date of grant, although the Committee will not make awards above 200% of base salary without prior consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Performance metrics Awards will vest to extent of achievement of performance metrics as set out below.
The Committee may choose alternative measures and weightings between them if it deems it appropriate, taking into account the strategic objectives of the Company.
Awards in 2017 will be based on the achievement of three equally weighted metrics below: EPS growth based on EEV adjusted profit: EPS growth as above but excluding the impact of the EEV unwind of the discount rate effectively excluding the impact of stock market movements on earnings : and Relative TSR performance.
For each performance metric, a threshold and stretch level of performance is set.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant element vests rising on a straight line basis to 100% for attainment of levels of performance between threshold and maximum targets.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy Helps recruit and retain Executives.
Provides a discrete element of the package to contribute to retirement income.
Operation Defined contribution to a pension scheme or an equivalent cash amount via non-pensionable allowance if the Executive is affected by HMRC limits.
In response to changes in legislation or similar developments, the Company may amend the form of an Executive Directors pension arrangements.
Maximum opportunity 20% of base salary.
Performance metrics N A 98 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Other Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operate competitive benefits to help recruit, retain and support the wellbeing of employees.
including choice of performance metrics Operation Including but not limited to: Company car or salary supplement in lieu, private medical insurance, life, critical illness and death in service cover, relocation assistance where necessary and the use of a driver for business purposes.
Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in any all-employee share plan e. g. SIP and SAYE operated by the Company on the same terms as other eligible employees.
The maximum level of participation is subject to limits imposed by HMRC or a lower cap set by the Company.
Any reasonable business expenses including tax thereon may be reimbursed.
Maximum opportunity Benefit costs are monitored and controlled and represent a small element of total remuneration costs.
Performance metrics N A Non-executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to strategy To attract high quality, experienced Non-executive Directors.
Operation The Chair is paid an all-inclusive annual fee which is reviewed periodically by the Committee.
All Non-executive Directors receive a basic annual fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees being paid in respect of Board Committees and other responsibilities, with fee levels reviewed periodically by the Board.
They may also be paid additional fees calculated at an appropriate day rate in the event of exceptional levels of additional time being required.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum individual fee level or annual increase.
Reviews take into account market data for similar non-executive roles in other companies of a similar size and or business to St. Jamess Place as well as the time commitment of its Non-executive Directors.
The policy is to pay up to the mid-market level based on similar time commitments of chair and non-executives in comparable companies.
Performance metrics Neither the Chair nor the Non-executive Directors are eligible for any performance related remuneration.
Notes to the Policy table: The performance measures and targets that are set for the Executive Directors annual bonus and Performance Share Plan PSP awards are carefully selected to align with the Companys strategic and key performance indicators.
For the annual bonus, financial and strategic measures are reviewed and selected by the Committee annually.
The measures selected and weighting between them may vary annually depending on the key priorities of the business for the year ahead.
Robust and demanding targets will be set annually, taking into account the economic environment, market expectations and the Companys budget and business plan for the year ahead.
EEV operating profit has been used to assess financial performance as this measure reflects a number of key metrics including new business, retention of funds under management and cost control.
The remaining bonus is determined based on strategic measures set annually on a balanced scorecard basis.
The Company has used a relative TSR measure and EPS growth targets for the PSP for a number of years in line with the Groups strategy of delivering profitable growth and superior returns to its shareholders.
The Committee will continue to review the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of targets prior to each PSP award being made and will set robust and stretching measures for any alternative measures used.
For the EPS growth measure, stretching targets will be set annually taking into account the economic environment, market expectations and the Companys budget and business plan at that time.
For the comparative TSR measure the Committees policy is to set threshold vesting for median performance, rising to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The Committee will assess annually the appropriateness of the TSR comparator group.
No performance targets are set for the SAYE and SIP awards as these form part of all employee arrangements designed to encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 99 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Annual bonus and long-term incentive maximum award sizes will Shareholding Requirements comply with the maximum opportunity set out in the Policy table not Executives are required to build and maintain a shareholding equivalent including any arrangements to replace forfeited deferred pay.
to 150% of base salary within five years of appointment.
Until the Participation in the annual bonus plan and PSP will normally be threshold is reached, 50% of vested shares from the PSP and other share pro-rated for the year of joining and different performance measures awards less tax liability must be retained.
Executives are also required may be set from those applying to the other Directors, if it is appropriate to hold a further 50% of salary in shares and or in one or more SJP to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities and the point in the funds, thus providing further alignment with shareholders and clients.
year in which they joined the Board.
A PSP award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a close Annual Bonus Plan and Share Plan Policy period.
Where it is essential for the purposes of recruitment, such as The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, deferred bonus where a new external recruit has not had any bonus deferral in their plan, PSP and all-employee share plans according to the rules of each previous role, bonus deferral may be phased in over a short period.
The respective plan and consistent with normal market practice and the standard approach will be for deferral to apply as stated in the Policy Listing Rules, where relevant.
The Committee will retain flexibility in a table.
number of areas regarding the operation and administration of these plans, including but not limited to the following: The Committee may make additional cash and or share-based awards as Who participates in the plans: it deems appropriate and, if the circumstances so demand, to take When to make awards and payments: account of deferred pay forfeited by an executive on leaving a previous How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how employer.
Awards to replace deferred pay forfeited would, where much of an award should vest: possible, reflect the nature of awards forfeited in terms of delivery How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: mechanism cash or shares, time horizons, attributed expected value In the case of stated good leaver reasons or otherwise, whether a and performance conditions.
Other payments may be made in relation to Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and relocation expenses and other incidental expenses as appropriate.
whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date s as relevant: and In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for terms and any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to special dividends.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the Policy to adjust For an overseas appointment, the Committee will have the discretion to targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual offer benefits and pension provisions which reflect local market practice bonus plan and the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that and relevant legislation.
the original targets or conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the targets or conditions achieve their If appropriate, and in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
agree, on the recruitment of a new Executive, a notice period of in excess of twelve months but reducing to twelve months over a specified period.
The use of discretion would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be subject to For the appointment of a new Chair or Non-executive Director, the fee consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved Policy at that time.
Awards Made Prior to the Effective Date For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy, authority was given Risk Management to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current Risk is managed within the Policy through the Committee: or former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Taking into consideration the recommendations contained in any remuneration reports.
This includes all historic awards that were granted applicable Remuneration Codes and associated guidance which apply under any current or previous share schemes operated by the Company to the Group: but remain outstanding detailed in the Annual Report on Structuring the annual bonus plan to contain a mix of financial and Remuneration and which will remain eligible to vest based on their strategic performance metrics, where performance conditions are original award terms.
Details of payments to former Directors will be tailored to the business outlook and strategy, including the set out in the Annual Remuneration Report, where required by the management of risk within the business.
The Committee also retains relevant regulations, as they arise.
the discretion to reduce the bonus out-turn where appropriate: Assessing the performance metrics from a risk perspective, with Approach to Remuneration for Recruitment and Promotions input from the Chair of the Risk Committee: The Committee would aim to set a new Executive Directors Requiring deferral of 50% of annual bonus payments into the remuneration package in line with the Policy in place at the time of Companys shares which are deferred for three years: appointment.
The Committee will take into account, in arriving at a total Requiring the Executive Directors to retain shares acquired on package and in considering the quantum for each element of the package, vesting of PSP awards granted from 1 January 2015 for a post-vesting the skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate holding period of two years on the shares vesting.
During this period of that experience as well as the importance of securing the best candidate.
the vested shares cannot normally be sold other than to the extent For new appointments, base salary and total remuneration may be set necessary to settle tax on vesting or exercise: initially at below normal market rates on the basis that it may be increased once expertise and performance has been proven and sustained.
100 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
