Directors remuneration report At a glance Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year Ian Bull Sep 2014 4 4 100% Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 4 4 100% Lesley James Oct 2009 4 4 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 4 4 100% Bill Shannon Nov 2010 4 4 100% Committee meeting attendees by invitation th Bill Oliver to 30 November 2016, Mark Allan from st 1 December 2016 Chief Executive Simon Clarke non-executive director Variable remuneration for Tanya Stote Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee the year reflects the financial Representatives from New Bridge Street Committee advisor performance of the Group.
Lesley James, CBE Annual Statement Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the report on directors remuneration for the financial year ended th 30 November 2016.
Principal role Our approach to remuneration is governed by our directors remuneration policy, which was last approved by shareholders Determines the policy for the remuneration of the executive in 2014.
Whilst the policy has served the Company well over its directors, which is designed to promote the long-term success three-year life, a number of amendments are proposed to bring of the Company, be compatible with risk policies and controls it up to date with good practice and to help drive performance and be aligned to the Companys long-term strategic goals.
over the next three years.
Details of the proposed amendments, including the rationale, are set out opposite.
Shareholders will be Key activities in 2015 16 asked to approve the revised directors remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM by way of a binding vote.
This annual statement, Reviewed the remuneration policy and consulted with major together with the annual report on remuneration pages 84 to 98, institutional investors and shareholder representative bodies will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Determined the application of the remuneration policy in Remuneration outcomes in 2015 2016 respect of the recruitment of Mark Allan, Chief Executive.
In the year to November 2016, the Company delivered a solid Monitored market trends in and the governance environment performance against the backdrop of an uncertain market of remuneration arrangements.
The underlying business performed well, as evidenced by trading profits, and gearing levels were carefully controlled.
Reflecting both the financial results for the year and the individual Areas of focus for 2016 17 performance of the executive directors in post throughout the year, Triennial review of the Committees external advisers.
Bill Oliver, Rob Hudson and Steve Burke were awarded bonuses of between 53.25% and 55.25% of their respective base salaries Ensuring close alignment of performance metrics and th for the year ended 30 November 2016.
These are substantially targets with the strategic goals.
lower than the 125% of base salary awarded for the year Improving the clarity and transparency of performance th ended 30 November 2015.
Further details of the Committees target disclosure.
assessment of performance against bonus objectives for the year can be found on pages 85 and 86.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance The 2014 Performance Share Plan awards were due to vest in March 2017 based on performance over the three financial years th to 30 November 2016.
Vesting of half of this award was subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index, with the remaining 50% subject to an absolute TSR condition.
Neither element met the performance required for vesting set by the Committee, so this LTIP cycle has delivered a zero payment for the executive directors.
Actual performance is detailed on page 87.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 74 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The level of variable remuneration received by the executive remains best suited to the business.
We are not therefore proposing th directors in respect of the year ended 30 November 2016 has fundamental changes to the policy, but are recommending a therefore reduced by 74% from the prior year.
The Committee number of amendments to ensure, primarily, that: feels that this reflects the financial performance of the Group in the alignment between the interests of executive directors the period, delivered in more challenging markets and against and shareholders is further strengthened: an uncertain economic backdrop.
remuneration arrangements are competitive but not excessive, Base salaries for the Group Finance Director and Group and performance expectations are stretching: Construction Director were increased by 2.5% effective st 1 December 2016, in line with the general cost of living salary bonus and LTIP metrics are fully aligned with our KPIs and increase awarded to other employees across the business.
promote the long-term success of the Company: and The base salary for the new Chief Executive, Mark Allan, the policy is sufficiently flexible to remain applicable over the is not being reviewed during the year ending November 2017. intended three-year policy period.
We are also proposing best practice changes, including the Proposed changes to the remuneration policy introduction of LTIP post-vesting holding periods and improved disclosure of performance targets.
Although the current directors remuneration policy was first approved by shareholders in 2014, our executive remuneration We have consulted with major investors and shareholder advisory arrangements have in fact remained unchanged for many more groups on the proposed amendments to our policy.
Taking account years in both structure and opportunity.
We have consistently of the feedback from the consultation, we made changes to the maintained our policies for annual bonus and the Performance proposals, including reducing the LTIP vesting level at threshold Share Plan for almost a decade and believe that it is incumbent performance, and placing a cap on how much of any bonus paid on us to ensure that these arrangements remain both appropriate out can be related to personal performance.
Shareholders will also be asked to vote on separate resolutions to The Committee has reviewed the current remuneration structure approve arrangements to replace the current Performance Share and has concluded that the existing framework of base salary Plan and also the Employee Share Option Scheme which is used plus pension and other benefits, annual bonus part cash and below Board level.
These votes are required as these plans will part invested in shares and a single long-term incentive plan LTIP both reach the end of their ten-year life in 2017.
Remuneration element Summary of changes proposed Rationale Annual bonus Maximum opportunity to be set at 150% of salary, The changes to annual bonus are intended to compared to 125% under the previous policy.
However, help drive performance, enhance transparency, any increase in bonus paid to apply for above-target and increase alignment with shareholders performance only, as target bonus will decrease as a through greater investment of the bonus percentage of maximum.
The higher maximum opportunity in shares.
is to apply for new stretch performance requirements, to be fully disclosed in each years Remuneration Report.
On-target bonus level to reduce from 60% to 50% of maximum opportunity, thereby remaining constant at 75% of salary.
The portion of bonus invested in shares and retained for a minimum period of three years to increase from one-third to 40%.
25% of the bonus to relate to personal measures, but the amount paid for personal performance will be capped at one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
For example, if a target bonus of 75% of base salary is awarded, no more than one-third of this can relate to personal performance i. e. 25% of base salary.
Greater clarity and transparency in disclosure to evidence stretching targets.
LTIP Performance metrics will be relative TSR against a peer The new approach provides more rounded group and growth in financial performance, in contrast metrics and longer-term shareholder alignment.
to the current policy which measures TSR only.
The higher maximum level, balanced by lower threshold payouts, is important in enabling us A two-year post-vesting share retention period is being to recruit and retain a high-calibre executive introduced to align executives with shareholders over team, and to help drive performance.
the full five-year period from the grant of an LTIP award.
Normal annual award limits to be set at 150% of base salary, compared to 125% under the previous policy 200% in exceptional circumstances, previously 180%.
However, the amount paid at threshold performance will reduce to 20% of the maximum, meaning that a lower percentage of salary is paid at threshold than under the previous policy.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 75 Directors remuneration report continued Changes to the Board Directors Remuneration We were delighted to welcome Mark Allan to the Board on Policy st 1 November 2016.
Mark succeeded Bill Oliver as Chief Executive th on Bills retirement form the Board on 30 November 2016.
This directors remuneration policy will be put to shareholders The remuneration arrangements for Mark, details of which can for approval by way of a binding vote at the 2017 AGM to be be found on page 90, are fully consistent with our remuneration th held on 29 March 2017.
If approved by shareholders, the policy.
In order to secure his appointment, the Committee replaced policy will take formal effect from the conclusion of the 2017 unvested, share-based incentives awarded to him by his previous AGM and will be subject to a shareholder vote at least every employer and forfeited as a consequence of him leaving to join three years.
The Committee took particular care in ensuring that these arrangements were appropriate in light of our policy and replicate, as closely as possible, the expected value, form, How the Committee sets the remuneration and time horizons of, and performance conditions applicable to, the forfeited awards.
Marks base salary is 13% higher than policy his predecessor, Bill Oliver, but this takes account of the larger The primary objective of the Companys remuneration policy is total remuneration package he had in his previous role as Chief to promote the long-term success of the Company through the Executive of The Unite Group plc.
operation of competitive pay arrangements which are structured Bill Olivers base salary and contractual benefits ceased at his so as to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Remuneration retirement date, and he received no payment for loss of office.
includes a significant proportion of performance-related elements He is eligible for an annual bonus award in respect of the with demanding targets to align the interests of directors with th financial year ended 30 November 2016, subject to the normal shareholders and to reward success.
The policy is structured so performance conditions.
He retains the Performance Share Plan as to be aligned with key strategic priorities and to be consistent awards he held at retirement date, but pro rated for the period with a Board-approved level of business risk.
The Committee also served, and subject to the normal performance conditions and considers developments in institutional investors best practice vesting dates.
expectations and the views expressed by shareholders.
In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Conclusion Committee takes into consideration the remuneration practices found in other UK companies of comparable size and scope and I thank shareholders for their helpful and constructive feedback has regard to the remuneration arrangements for the Companys during the consultation on our directors remuneration policy.
The components and levels of remuneration We would welcome your support for the remuneration resolutions for other employees have some differences from the policy for which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Greater emphasis is placed on variable pay for executive directors and senior employees, albeit with lower maximum incentive opportunities at levels below the Board.
Lesley James Similarly, long-term incentives are offered only to those expected Chairman of the Remuneration Committee th to have the greatest impact on Company performance.
6 February 2017 The Committee is aware of the support expressed by some shareholders for the downward harmonisation of executive This report complies with the requirements of the Large and pension allowances to bring them into line with percentages Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports for the wider workforce.
Current allowances for the Companys Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 the Regulations, the executive directors are 15% of base salary, which reflects principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and mid-market practice and previous commitments made on the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
appointment: however, the Committee is closely monitoring how market practice and investor views about this topic develop.
The Committee does not directly consult with employees regarding the remuneration of directors.
However, when considering remuneration levels to apply to executive directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees across the business.
Salary increases are normally in percentage of salary terms no higher than those awarded to the wider workforce.
How the Committee takes account of the views of shareholders The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks the views of its major investors when considering significant changes to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee also considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the Directors remuneration report each year following the AGM.
This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, is then considered as part of the Committees annual review of remuneration policy and its implementation.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 76 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Long-term incentives Changes to the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM Performance metrics will be relative TSR against a peer group and growth in financial performance, in contrast to the current The Committee has undertaken a thorough review of the existing policy which measures TSR only.
remuneration policy, including extensive consultation with our major shareholders, considering the Companys objectives and in light A two-year post-vesting share retention period is being of developments in the executive pay environment.
As part of introduced for awards made in 2017 and beyond, to align the revised policy the Committee proposes to renew the current executives with shareholders over the full five-year period from Performance Share Plan which expires in 2017.
Subject to the the grant of an LTIP award.
This holding period will remain in approval of shareholders at the 2017 AGM, the key changes to place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year the policy are as follows: holding period.
Normal annual award limits to be set at 150% of base salary, Annual bonus compared to 125% under the previous policy.
However, the Maximum annual bonus opportunity is set at 150% of base amount paid at threshold performance will reduce to 20% of salary, compared to 125% of base salary currently.
the maximum, meaning that a lower percentage of salary is paid at threshold than under the previous policy.
However, the proportion paid out at the on-target level has been reduced from 60% to 50% of maximum resulting in the Shareholding requirement on-target bonus level remaining constant at 75% of salary.
Executive directors will be additionally required to retain all The higher maximum bonus will be payable for new stretch of the post-tax shares acquired as a result of the compulsory performance requirements, to be disclosed in the Remuneration investment of bonus into shares and half of the post-tax shares Report.
vesting under the LTIP until the shareholding requirement is met.
The proportion of bonus compulsorily invested in shares and The target achievement date for the shareholding requirement retained for a minimum period of three years has been increased is five years from appointment to the Board, but the Committee from one-third to 40%.
has the discretion to extend this timeframe if necessary.
At least 75% of annual bonus to be based on corporate measures, with no more than 25% of the overall bonus based Revised directors remuneration policy on personal performance objectives.
However, the proportion The remuneration policy that will apply, subject to shareholder of bonus that can paid for personal performance will be capped approval, from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM is set out on pages at one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
Remuneration arrangements for the financial year ending th 30 November 2017 will be in line with this policy: further information can be found on pages 93 and 96.
Base salary Purpose To attract, retain and motivate individuals of the necessary calibre to execute the Companys strategy.
To provide competitive base remuneration relative to the external market.
To recognise and reward performance, skills and experience.
st Operation Normally reviewed annually with changes typically effective from 1 December.
Review reflects: individual and corporate performance: the individuals level of skill and experience: increases throughout the Company including cost of living awards : internal relativities: and prevailing market conditions through periodic benchmarking for comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope.
The Committee is mindful of institutional investors concerns on the upward ratchet of base salaries and does not consider benchmark data in isolation.
Opportunity Salaries may be adjusted and salary increases will normally be in percentage of salary terms no higher than those awarded to the wider workforce.
Larger increases may be awarded at the Committees discretion to take account of exceptional circumstances such as: changes in scope and responsibility of a role: and where a new director is appointed at a salary which is at a lower level to reflect their experience at that point, the Committee may award a series of increases over time to achieve the desired salary position subject to satisfactory performance and market conditions.
Actual salary levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year st see page 93 for those effective 1 December 2016.
Performance measures None, although overall performance of the individual is considered by the Committee as part of the annual review.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 77 Directors remuneration report continued Benefits Purpose To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package.
To assist with recruitment and retention.
Operation The Company provides a range of non-pensionable benefits to executive directors which may, for example, include a combination of a company car or car allowance, private fuel, driver, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, holiday and sick pay, and professional advice in connection with their directorship.
Other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Executive directors will be eligible for any other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Any reasonable business-related expenses can be reimbursed, including the tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Opportunity There is no maximum limit set.
Benefits are set at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on the role and individual circumstances.
Pension Purpose To provide competitive post-retirement benefits in a cost-effective manner.
Operation The Company offers an allowance expressed as a percentage of base salary which can be taken as: an employer contribution to the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme: a cash allowance which is not bonusable : or a blend of the two.
As a result of historic contractual commitments retirement benefits for Steve Burke are also delivered by membership of the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme which is closed to future accrual.
The Committee may amend the form of any executive directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a directors pension provision.
Opportunity Up to 15% of base salary for all executive directors.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 78 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Annual bonus Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching, near-term strategic, financial and operational measures at Company and personal levels.
Corporate measures selected are consistent with and complement the budget and strategic plan.
An element of compulsory investment in shares to align to shareholders interests in the creation of sustainable, long-term value.
Operation All measures, weightings and targets are reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year and specific performance criteria will be aligned to the Companys strategic objectives at that time.
Levels of award determined by the Committee after the year end will be based on performance against the targets set.
The Committee retains an overriding discretion to ensure that overall bonus payments reflect its view of corporate performance during the year.
Bonuses are paid in cash and are non-pensionable.
Directors are required to invest an amount equal to 40% of the net bonus received in the Companys shares and to retain these shares for a minimum period of three years.
Withholding malus and recovery clawback provisions apply to all bonuses paid such that, in exceptional circumstances such as misstatement of performance or misconduct, the Committee has discretion to reduce some or all of the value of an award within a period of four years following the end of the relevant bonus year.
Opportunity Maximum bonus potential of up to 150% of salary for all executive directors.
On-target performance would result in a bonus payment of half of the maximum potential.
Performance measures Performance is assessed using the following metrics: a majority of the award will be based on corporate measures: and 1 a minority no more than 25% of the overall bonus opportunity will be based on personal measures.
There is also a cap on the amount of bonus awarded for performance in respect of personal measures, set at one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
th The specific measures that will apply for the year ending 30 November 2017 are described in the annual report on remuneration on page 94.
Measures for subsequent years will be summarised in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
1 The annual bonus metrics are designed to ensure that annual performance is focused on key corporate measures which support the Companys strategic targets.
These are supported by individual performance measures to ensure that executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range of objectives.
Targets are set in line with the Companys budget and strategic plan for the year with a stretch element to reward substantial outperformance.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 79 Directors remuneration report continued Long-term incentives Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of strong returns to shareholders and sustained, long-term performance.
Aligns the long-term interests of directors and shareholders.
Operation Awards are normally made annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions set by the Committee.
th A holding period will apply to awards granted in the financial year ending 30 November 2017 and beyond.
The holding period will require executive directors to retain at least the after-tax value of shares acquired for a minimum period of 24 months from the vesting date and will remain in place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year holding period.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee to pay an amount in cash or shares equivalent to the dividends paid or payable on vested shares between the date of grant and the vesting of an award or, if later, and only whilst an option remains unexercised in respect of vested shares, the expiry of the holding period.
An amount payable may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Withholding malus and recovery clawback provisions apply to all awards granted such that, in exceptional circumstances such as misstatement of performance or misconduct, the Committee has discretion to reduce some or all of the value of an award within a period of four years following the end of the relevant performance period.
Opportunity The maximum annual grant level is 150% of salary or 200% in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
The normal annual award limit is 150% of salary for all executive directors.
Awards vest on the following basis: threshold performance delivers 20% of the shares awarded: and maximum performance delivers 100% of the shares awarded, with straight line vesting between.
Performance measures Performance is normally measured over three years.
Awards to vest based on performance against stretching financial targets and relative TSR performance, 1 set and assessed by the Committee in its discretion.
Within these parameters, the Committee may introduce or reweight specific performance measures so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for each performance period.
The Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent performance conditions have been achieved and must also be satisfied that certain underpinning conditions are met before permitting awards to vest for example, that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
The underpin conditions will be set so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for each performance period.
th The specific measures that will apply for the year ending 30 November 2017 are described in the annual report on remuneration on pages 95 and 96.
1 The Committee believes that a combination of relative TSR and key financial measures provides strong alignment with the interests of shareholders and complements the focus on operational performance measures in the annual bonus arrangements.
Targets are set to ensure that only modest awards are available for delivering on-target performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of the Companys budget and strategic plans.
Shareholding requirement Purpose To ensure alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders.
Operation The Company operates a shareholding requirement which is subject to periodic review.
Opportunity Executive directors are required to build up and maintain a shareholding worth at least 200% of base salary, which is normally expected to be reached within five years of appointment.
Executive directors are required to retain all of the post-tax shares acquired as a result of the compulsory investment of bonus into shares and half of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP until the shareholding requirement is met.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 80 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Fees payable to Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose To attract and retain the calibre of Chairman and non-executive directors necessary to promote the long-term success of the Company by offering market competitive fee levels.
st Operation Normally reviewed annually with changes effective typically from 1 December.
Any increase will be guided by changes in market rates, time commitment and responsibility levels, as well as by increases made throughout the Company.
Fees are structured as follows: the Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
This fee is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee: and non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or for undertaking the Senior Independent Director role, which are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the executive directors.
Fees are normally paid in cash.
Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive directors participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive arrangements or in the pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind.
Opportunity Fees are set at a level which reflects the commitment and contribution that is expected and is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope.
Overall fees paid to directors will remain within the limit set out in the Companys articles of association.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year see page st 96 for those effective 1 December 2016.
Performance measures None, although overall performance of the individual is considered as part of the annual review.
The Committee retains the discretion to make any payments, determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out of the respective arrangement and the appropriate treatment above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the chosen, including the pro rating of awards: policy came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes the annual review of performance measures, weighting and payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable targets from year to year: and remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms the manner in which share awards can be satisfied i. e. through of the payment are determined at the time the award is granted.
the use of new issue, market purchased or treasury shares or Details of any such payments will be disclosed in the annual report by way of a cash payment.
on remuneration for the relevant year.
In addition, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets The Committee will operate the annual bonus and long-term and or set different measures if events occur e. g. a material incentive arrangements according to their respective rules and in acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
Consistent with it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and market practice the Committee retains certain discretions in respect the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their of the operation and administration of these arrangements which original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
include, but are not limited to, the following: Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the the participants: annual report on remuneration for the relevant year and may, the timing of the grant of an award or payment: as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
the size of an award: the determination of the extent to which performance measures have been met and the corresponding vesting or payment levels: discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 81 Directors remuneration report continued Illustration of remuneration policy Recruitment arrangements The following charts illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided The remuneration package for a new executive director would to each executive director in line with the remuneration policy at be set in accordance with the terms of the prevailing approved different levels of performance for the 2016 17 financial year.
remuneration policy at the time of the appointment and take into account the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: for a candidate of that level of experience and the importance of 1.
Minimum performance: comprising the minimum remuneration securing the relevant individual.
receivable i. e. fixed pay only, being base salary effective Base salary levels for new recruits will be set in accordance with st 1 December 2016, pension allowances for the 2016 17 the policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the financial year and benefits calculated using the 2015 16 individual recruited.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary figure as set out in the table on page 84 for Steve Burke initially to reflect the individuals experience at that point, the and Rob Hudson excluding the amount paid to him during Committee may award a series of increases over time to achieve the year in respect of relocation.
Benefits have been estimated the desired salary position subject to performance and market for Mark Allan.
Pension arrangements will be in line with the policy.
On-target performance: comprising fixed pay, an annual The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded bonus payment of 50% of the maximum opportunity 75% to new executive directors, excluding the value of any buyout of salary and long-term incentive awards vesting at 20% of arrangements, will be in line with the policy.
In addition, the maximum opportunity 30% of salary.
Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements 3.
Maximum performance: comprising fixed pay, 100% of annual to replace deferred or incentive pay, or benefit arrangements, bonus 150% of salary and 100% vesting of long-term incentive forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer.
In doing so awards 150% of salary.
the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the form e. g. cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood The illustrations do not take into account share price appreciation of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration or dividends.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited.
Mark Allan, Chief Executive Replacement share awards, if used, will, to the extent possible, 000 be granted using the Companys existing share schemes, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary 100% Minimum 680 and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
54% 33%13% On-target 1,273 The Committee may also apply different performance measures, performance periods and or vesting periods for initial awards made 28% 36% 36% Maximum 2,375 following appointment under the annual bonus and or long-term incentive arrangements, subject to the rules of the scheme, if it Steve Burke, Group Construction Director determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such 000 alteration.
A long-term incentive award can be made shortly following an appointment provided the Company is not in a closed period.
100% Minimum 404 Where a position is filled internally, the Committee may honour any pre-existing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay 54% 33% 13% On-target 759 arrangements in relation to the individuals previous role such that 28% 36% 36% Maximum 1,417 these shall be allowed to continue according to the original terms adjusted as relevant to take account of the Board appointment.
Rob Hudson, Group Finance Director For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree 000 that the Company will meet certain relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
100% Minimum 338 Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of 54% 33% 13% On-target 634 appointment.
28% 36% 36% Maximum 1,184 External appointments Fixed pay The Board recognises the benefit which the Company can obtain Annual bonus if executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other Long-term incentives companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that an executive director can accept one non-executive directorship of another company but not the chairmanship and can retain the fees in respect of such appointment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 82 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information In redundancy situations the Committee will comply with prevailing Executive director service agreements relevant legislation.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, and payments for loss of office the Company may pay a contribution towards the executive The Companys policy is for executive directors to have service directors legal fees for entering into a statutory agreement, may agreements which may be terminated by the Company for breach pay a contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part by the executive or with no more than 12 months notice from of a negotiated settlement, or may make a payment to compromise the Company to the executive and six months notice from the claims the executive director may have.
There is no provision for executive to the Company.
additional compensation on termination following a change of control.
Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, If notice is served by either party, the executive director can including untaken holiday entitlement.
continue to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may The principles set out in the table below will apply to annual bonus require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may and long-term incentive arrangements in the event of loss of office.
assign a period of garden leave.
The Company may elect to make In respect of all-employee share schemes and the Companys a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to a maximum of Employee Share Option Schemes, the same leaver conditions will be 12 months base salary and benefits, including pension contribution applied to executive directors as those applied to other employees.
but excluding bonus, payable in monthly instalments, which would be subject to mitigation if alternative employment is taken up during Non-executive director terms of appointment this time.
Alternatively, the Committee retains discretion to provide this payment as a lump sum.
In the event of termination for cause The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-executive e. g. gross misconduct neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Appointments will be given and the executive director will cease to perform their are for a fixed term of three years, during which period the services immediately.
appointment may be terminated by three months notice by either party.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms subject to mutual agreement and satisfactory performance reviews.
There are no provisions for payment in the event of termination, early or otherwise.
Remuneration element Good leavers Other leavers Annual bonus An executive director will be treated as a good Unless the Committee exercises its discretion leaver in certain circumstances, for example if to treat the executive director as a good leaver, he or she dies or ceases employment due to no bonus will be payable.
injury, disability, retirement with the Companys agreement, or sale of the business in which he or she is employed, or for any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In these circumstances, the executive director remains eligible to be paid a bonus, subject to the applicable performance measures.
Any payment awarded may be pro rated to reflect the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination, but not for any period in lieu of notice.
Long-term incentive An executive director will be treated as a good All awards will lapse in full where termination is awards leaver in certain circumstances, for example death, by reason of summary dismissal.
injury, disability or for any other reason at the As apply to the Companys In other circumstances, unvested awards will lapse discretion of the Committee.
current Performance Share in full unless the Committee applies discretion to Plan.
The terms of the Awards will normally vest at the normal vesting treat the executive director as a good leaver.
replacement Performance date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant Share Plan, which performance conditions at that time and reduced shareholders will be asked pro rata to reflect the proportion of the vesting to approve at the 2017 period actually served.
However, under the plan AGM, have been designed rules, the Committee has discretion to determine to materially continue with that awards vest at cessation of employment and the main features of the or to disapply the time pro rating if it considers it current Plan, but with appropriate to do so.
appropriate changes to A good leaver may exercise their vested awards take account of prevailing for a period of six months 12 months in the best practice and the event of death following the individuals cessation revised policy.
of employment and unvested awards may be exercised for a period of six months 12 months in the event of death from vesting.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 83 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3, Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Rob Hudson was also entitled to a relocation allowance of up to 25% of base salary in respect of reasonable and th th appropriate costs to enable him to relocate to the Midlands following his appointment on 28 September 2015: in the year ended 30 November 2016 payments totalling 26,342 2015: 37,471 were made to Rob Hudson in connection with his relocation.
No further payments are due.
2 Bonus payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Further information as to how the level of bonus awarded in 2016 was determined is provided on pages 85 and 86. th 3 The performance period for the 2014 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2016.
The performance conditions to which these awards were subject were not achieved, th hence the awards will lapse in full on 5 March 2017.
Further information on the awards and the performance conditions to which they were subject can be found on page 87. th 4 Relates to the 2013 PSP awards which vested and became exercisable on 6 March 2016.
The share price used to value the awards was 305.6 pence, being the share price on the last dealing day immediately prior to the vesting date which fell on a Sunday, plus 12.92 pence per share which was the value of the dividend equivalent deliverable in shares on vesting.
The dividend equivalent is based on dividends paid to shareholders with record dates occurring between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
5 Further details regarding pension entitlements can be found on page 89. st 6 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016.
Further information on the recruitment arrangements for Mark Allan can be found on page 90. th 7 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016.
Further information on the remuneration arrangements in connection with Bill Olivers retirement can be found on page 91. th 8 Reflects a the grant of a Sharesave option on 15 August 2016 the value is based on the market value on the date of grant 274.5 pence, less the option price rd 246.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options granted : and b the exercise of a Sharesave option on 3 October 2016 the value is based on the market value on the date of exercise 298.4 pence, less the option price 156.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Further details can be found on page 88.
9 As set out in the 2015 Remuneration Report, the Committee agreed to compensate Rob Hudson for certain long-term incentives from his previous employer that he was required to forfeit on him leaving to join St. Modwen in September 2015.
This included a one-off cash payment of 414,000 subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance contributions in recognition of an outstanding long-term incentive award which had reached the end of the performance measurement period in March 2015 such that the full value could be determined but which was not due to vest until December 2015.
As the vesting date fell soon after his appointment, a cash payment th rather than an award of shares was considered fair and reasonable.
The amount shown in the table above also reflects the grant of a Sharesave option on 15 August 2016, with the value based on the market value on the date of grant 274.5 pence, less the option price 246.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options granted.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 84 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Annual bonus outturn audited information th In the financial year ended 30 November 2016 all executive directors excluding Mark Allan had the opportunity to be awarded an annual st bonus of up to 125% of base salary as at 1 December 2015.
Of this, 105% of salary was dependent on achieving corporate measures and 20% on meeting personal objectives.
The Committee determined that it was appropriate to allocate 10% of the corporate measures to New Covent Garden Market NCGM, given that it represents approximately 10% of NAV.
Weightings and targets for the corporate measures set at the beginning of the year reflected this allocation, with the resulting maximum opportunity for NCGM determined at 7%.
Performance against targets and resulting bonus awards are set out in the tables below.
Threshold On-target Maximum performance performance performance Award as a Corporate measures Weighting 25% of salary 65% of salary 105% of salary Actual performance % of salary Post dividend growth in shareholders 27% 4% growth 5% growth 6% growth 4.2% growth 6.75% equity net asset value per share to 431.00 pence Profit before all tax 27% 60m 90m 120m 60.8m 6.75% Total dividend for the year 9% 6.00 pence 6.05 pence 6.10 pence 6.00 pence 2.25% per share per share per share per share 1 Gearing levels 10% 50% 49% 48% 48.9% 6.50% Covenant compliance 10% N A Full N A Full 6.50% Achievement against a number of strategic 10% Achievement determined by the On-target 6.50% objectives which primarily included: Committee against measurable performance objectives set at the beginning of achieving targeted development the year milestones to support future profit delivery: and progressing acquisitions to enhance the Companys land bank.
New Covent Garden Market 7% Performance to be assessed on the No sale achieved 0.00% extent to which the sale reflected in the year and a book value 24.3m fall in value recorded Total 100% 35.25% 1 Defined as adjusted gearing, being the level of the Groups net borrowings at amortised cost and excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 85 Directors remuneration report continued On-target Maximum performance performance Award as a 1 Key personal measures 10% of salary 20% of salary Actual performance % of salary Bill Oliver: Executive succession planning Achievement determined by the St. Modwen Homes 18.00% Committee against measurable delivered 49% growth in Development of St. Modwen Homes objectives set at the beginning profit in the year and is Progress planned asset disposals of the year now active on 18 sites Steve Burke: Delivery of interim flower market at Achievement determined by the Completion of interim 20.00% New Covent Garden Market Committee against measurable flower market and objectives set at the beginning successful delivery of Delivery of the second phase of of the year phase two at Bay accommodation at the Bay Campus, Campus.
Driving Swansea University enhancement of Continue to evolve the Companys CSR through the CSR activities Steering Committee Rob Hudson: Enhance funding structure Achievement determined by the Refinancing programme 18.00% Committee against measurable delivered increased Continued development of risk objectives set at the beginning facilities at reduced cost.
management activities of the year Instrumental in driving Finance team development and risk management succession planning activities across the business 1 Specific commentary has not been provided for measures which are sensitive such as succession planning.
In light of both corporate and individual performance, the Committee determined that the following bonus awards be made: Award Corporate Award Personal Total award Salary on which bonus Executive director as a % of salary as a % of salary as a % of salary award is calculated Total bonus award 1 Bill Oliver 35.25% 18.00% 53.25% 499,351 265,904 Steve Burke 35.25% 20.00% 55.25% 329,481 182,038 Rob Hudson 35.25% 18.00% 53.25% 275,000 146,437 th 1 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016.
Bonus payments to Steve Burke and Rob Hudson were conditional upon the executive director undertaking to invest at least one third of the bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance, in the Companys shares and to retain those shares for a minimum period of three years.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 86 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Long-term incentives audited information Performance Share Plan PSP th The three-year performance period for the 2014 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2016.
The performance conditions which applied to the awards together with actual performance are summarised in the table below.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Actual Proportion of Performance measure Weighting performance performance performance performance performance award to vest Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50% 11.3 % 0.00% TSR relative to FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Equal to 120% of Below the Index 50% of award Index 12.5% Index 50% Index 0.00% Total 0.00% th The Committee therefore determined that the PSP awards granted in 2014 will lapse in full on the third anniversary of grant 5 March 2017. nd On 22 February 2016, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors as nil cost options: Face value of award % of award that would vest for 1 2 Executive director Basis of award 000 Number of shares threshold performance 3 Bill Oliver 125% of salary 624 190,052 25% Steve Burke 125% of salary 412 125,400 25% Rob Hudson 125% of salary 344 104,664 25% 1 Calculated using the average share price of 328.43 pence which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded being the average over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
2 The performance measures that apply to the awards mirror those proposed for the 2014 awards which are described above.
The performance period started on st th 1 December 2015 and will end on 30 November 2018. th 3 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 87 Directors remuneration report continued All PSP awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
In addition, awards are subject to two underpin conditions, namely that a the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period: and b if no dividend has been paid on the last normal dividend date prior to the vesting date or if the Committee believes that no dividend will be paid in respect of the year in which the award vests, the award will not vest at that time and vesting will be delayed subject to continued employment until dividend payments are resumed.
th 2 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016.
PSP awards granted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 have been pro rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to th 30 November 2016.
Further information can be found on page 91. th 3 Awards exercised on 14 July 2016.
The share price on exercise was 268.0 pence.
In addition to the awards exercised, the executive directors received shares representing the value of dividends paid from the date of award to the date of exercise as follows: Bill Oliver 14,680 shares: Steve Burke 9,686 shares.
th 4 Awards to lapse in full on 5 March 2017 as described on page 87.
5 The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded, under the rules of the PSP, was 328.43 pence.
The closing mid-market share price on the date of the award was 326.6 pence.
Saving Related Share Option Scheme SAYE SAYE awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Options Options held on Options Options Options held on st th 1 December granted exercised lapsed 30 November Exercise Exercise Executive director Date of grant 2015 during year during year during year 2016 price period 1 Steve Burke 16 08 11 9,887 9,887 156 pence 01 10 16 to 31 03 17 15 08 16 3,658 3,658 246 pence 01 10 19 to 31 03 20 9,887 3,658 9,887 3,658 Rob Hudson 15 08 16 3,658 3,658 246 pence 01 10 19 to 31 03 20 rd 1 Exercised on 3 October 2016.
The share price on the date of exercise was 298.4 pence.
th The closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2016 was 280.0 pence and the price range during the year was 222.2 pence to 428.8 pence.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 88 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Pension entitlements audited information All executive directors receive a pension contribution of 15% of base salary which is paid either into the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution or a combination of both.
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by an executive director in the event that the value of their pension exceeds the statutory Lifetime Allowance.
Steve Burke is also a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme, which was closed to new members in 1999 and to future accrual in 2009.
Benefits are based on years of credited service and final pensionable pay: the maximum benefit generally payable under the scheme is two-thirds of final pensionable pay.
Information required by the Regulations in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements is set out below.
Increase in Accrued pension Accrued pension Increase in accrued pension th th Age at at 30 November at 30 November accrued pension during the year th 1 1 30 November 2015 2016 during the year excluding inflation Executive director 2016 pa pa pa pa 2 2 Steve Burke 57 28,342 28,342 0 0 1 The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming an executive director as well as for qualifying services after becoming an executive director and is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 65 based on service to the end of the year.
st 2 These figures have been calculated by applying deferred revaluation to Steve Burkes deferred pension as at 1 September 2009, being the date that accrual ceased under the defined benefits section of the scheme.
3 The following is additional information relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements applicable to Steve Burke: Normal retirement age is 65 years.
Retirement may take place at any age after age 55 subject to Company consent.
Pensions may be reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
There are no death in service benefits payable and no additional benefits due on early retirement.
Deferred pensions are assumed to increase in line with CPI capped at 5% per annum in the period before retirement.
Further information on the Companys pension scheme is shown in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 89 Directors remuneration report continued Recruitment arrangements for Mark Allan Mark Allans service agreement and remuneration arrangements are consistent with the Companys remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Details are set out below: Base salary of 565,000 per annum.
Marks base salary is 13% higher than his predecessor, Bill Oliver, but this takes account of the larger total remuneration package he had in his previous role as Chief Executive of The Unite Group plc including maximum variable pay at Unite being 94 percentage points higher than St. Modwens current policy.
Marks remuneration also takes account of his impressive track record and the high regard in which he is held in the listed property sector.
Marks salary was set at the point of recruitment in April st 2016 and will not be subject to review before 1 December 2017, with any increase subject to satisfactory performance.
Pension allowance of 15% of base salary and other benefits in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Eligible to participate in the Companys annual bonus arrangements.
Eligible to participate in the Companys long-term share-based incentive arrangements, with the initial award to be granted in 2017 at a value of 180% of base salary in line with the approved policy on remuneration in recruitment situations.
Minimum shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary.
The normal expectation is that this will be achieved no later than five years from appointment.
The Company agreed to compensate Mark for unvested share-based incentives awarded to him by his previous employer and forfeited nd as a consequence of him leaving to join St. Modwen.
The compensation comprised the grant, on 2 November 2016, of an award over 694,325 shares in the Company under and subject to the terms of a share award agreement entered into upon reliance of FCA Listing Rule 9.4.
The award was on a like-for-like basis at a level consistent with fair value at the time of recruitment, and comprises distinct nil-cost option tranches exercisable in accordance with the original vesting timeframe which applied to the forfeited awards subject to the achievement of the relevant performance condition where applicable as noted in the table below.
Number of shares Tranches relevant Tranche comprised within tranche vesting date Relevant performance condition One 138,539 10 April 2017 None Two 211,353 10 April 2017 That which would have applied to the relevant former employer LTIP award granted st in April 2014 with a normal performance period ended 31 December 2016 Three 105,708 10 April 2018 That which would have applied to the relevant former employer LTIP award granted st in April 2014 with a normal performance period ended 31 December 2016 Four 159,134 2 April 2018 That which would have applied to the relevant former employer LTIP award granted st in April 2015 with a normal performance period ending 31 December 2017 Five 79,591 2 April 2019 That which would have applied to the relevant former employer LTIP award granted st in April 2015 with a normal performance period ending 31 December 2017 The tranches will normally vest on their vesting date subject to Marks continued service and the extent to which the relevant performance condition if any is satisfied.
The tranches will normally remain exercisable to their vested extent for a period of six months from time of vesting or such longer period as the Board approves during such period.
On exercise the tranches will be satisfied using existing shares only.
The award includes an entitlement to a cash payment following a tranches vesting date in respect of dividend equivalent value that would have accrued under the forfeited awards to the extent they had vested.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 90 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Payments to past directors and for loss of office audited information Michael Dunn st Further to the disclosure in prior years reports, Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2015.
He remained on garden th leave for the remainder of his notice period to 18 December 2015 when he ceased to be an employee of the Company.
st th For the period from 1 December 2015 to 18 December 2015 Michael received 14,772 in base salary, 571 in benefits and 1,826 in pension contribution.
th On 9 June 2016 Michael exercised the SAYE award that had been granted to him in 2011 to the extent of his accumulated savings plus any applicable interest.
At the point of exercise this comprised an option over 9,160 shares at an option price of 156 pence per share.
th On 6 July 2016 Michael exercised the PSP award that had been granted to him in 2013.
The award, in the form of a nil-cost option, had st been pro rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 31 May 2015 and had vested in full.
In addition to the award exercised 103,468 shares, Michael received 6,816 shares representing the value of dividends paid from the date of award to the date of exercise.
The PSP award granted to Michael in 2014, in the form of a nil-cost option, had been pro rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date st of grant to 31 May 2015.
As noted on page 87, neither absolute nor relative TSR measures achieved the level of performance required for vesting set by the Committee, such that the award over 37,275 shares will lapse in full.
Bill Oliver th Bill Oliver retired from the Board as Chief Executive and an executive director on 30 November 2016.
His employment with the Company also ended on this date.
th Details of Bills remuneration for the financial year ended 30 November 2016 can be found in the table on page 84.
He remained eligible th to be awarded a bonus, subject to the achievement of performance measures, in respect of the financial year ended 30 November 2016: further details can be found on pages 85 and 86.
The Committee has exercised discretion under the rules of the PSP to allow unvested awards to continue subject to time pro rating and th performance assessment.
Awards have been pro rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 30 November 2016: details can be found on page 88.
Satisfaction of the performance conditions will be assessed at the end of the relevant performance periods in line with the PSP rules and vesting will remain subject to the Committees determination as to whether the two financial underpins details of which are set out in note 1 to the first table on page 88 have been met.
To the extent that they vest, awards will be exercisable for a period of six months from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Bill will also receive shares representing the value of dividends paid on vested shares from the date of award to the date of exercise.
All awards will continue to be subject to recovery and withholding provisions.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are shown in the table below.
th As at 30 November 2016 Long-term incentive Long-term awards incentive Ordinary vested but awards not shares unexercised yet vested SAYE awards Executive directors Mark Allan 694,325 1 Bill Oliver 1,009,876 257,587 Steve Burke 526,615 310,573 3,658 Rob Hudson 8,298 223,682 3,658 Non-executive directors Bill Shannon 95,000 Ian Bull 25,000 Kay Chaldecott 21,025 Simon Clarke 3,225,157 Lesley James 30,000 Richard Mully 70,000 th 1 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016. th There were no changes in these shareholdings or interests between 30 November 2016 and the date of this report.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 91 Directors remuneration report continued In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders, executive directors are required to build up a holding of ordinary shares in the Company worth at least 200% of their base salary.
Until this has been achieved, an executive director is required to retain all the shares acquired through the bonus investment process as well as 50% of any exercised long-term incentive award.
th Both Bill Oliver and Steve Burke had met and exceeded the shareholding requirement as at 30 November 2016: Mark Allan and Rob st th Hudson have unless the Committee deem it appropriate to extend the timeframe until 1 November 2021 and 28 September 2020, respectively, to meet the shareholding requirement.
Value of shareholding at th Ordinary shares held as at Shareholding requirement as 30 November 2016 th 1 Executive director 30 November 2016 % of base salary as % of base salary 2 Mark Allan 200% 3 Bill Oliver 1,009,876 200% 556% Steve Burke 526,615 200% 448% Rob Hudson 8,298 200% 8% th th 1 Based on the closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2016 of 280.0 pence and salary as at 30 November 2016. st 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016. th 3 Retired from the Board on 30 November 2016.
External appointments The Company is supportive of executive directors who wish to take on non-executive directorships in order to broaden their experience and they are entitled to retain any fees they may receive.
Mark Allan is a trustee director on the non-executive board on Anchor Trust.
st th For the period from 1 November 2016 to 30 November 2016 he received and retained fees from Anchor Trust of 2,083.
Historic Company performance and Chief Executive remuneration The following information allows comparison of the Companys TSR based on share price growth and dividends reinvested with the remuneration of Bill Oliver, Chief Executive, over the last eight financial years.
Total Shareholder Return 600 500 400 300 200 100 th th th th th th th th th 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 St. Modwen FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services The chart is prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
It shows the Companys TSR and that of the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services th th Indices based on an initial investment of 100 on 30 November 2008 and values at intervening financial year ends over an eight-year period to 30 November 2016.
Since the Company was a constituent of both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices during the year, these are considered to be appropriate benchmarks for the graph.
2 In addition to the annual bonus, the Chief Executive was also awarded a one-off, exceptional payment of 100,000 in relation to the successful equity raising and financial restructuring undertaken in the year.
3 Comprises 45.64% of the 2009 PSP awards and 45.89% of the 2010 PSP awards.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 92 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to employees th The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus between the years ended 30 November 2015 and th 30 November 2016 for both Bill Oliver, the then Chief Executive, and for all permanent employees of the Company.
Change in base Change in Change in annual salary % benefits % bonus % 2 Chief Executive 3.0 0.0 56.1 1 3 4 All permanent employees 3.0 0.0 21.3 1 General cost of living increase for permanent employees.
Including adjustments for promotions and recognition of exceptional performance, the weighted average increase in salary was 4.9%.
2 The year on year decrease in benefits shown in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 84 reflects a reduction in taxable benefit arising following a change of company car.
3 There was no change to the overall structure of benefits available to permanent employees.
Relative spend on pay The table below shows the total expenditure on remuneration for all employees of the Company including pension, variable pay and social security costs compared to other key financial indicators as reported in the audited Group financial statements for the last two financial years.
Information in respect of profit and net asset value performance has been provided for context.
Relevant note to the Group Year ended Year ended th th financial 30 November 30 November Measure statements 2015 2016 % Increase Total spend on pay 3c 21.8m 23.7m 8.7% Profit before all tax 2a 258.4m 60.8m 76.5 % Dividends paid 7 11.1m 12.8m 15.3% Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2f 914.7m 955.2m 4.4% Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 17 Base salary In line with the general cost of living salary increase awarded to the Companys permanent employees, Rob Hudson and Steve Burke st received an annual salary increase of 2.5% with effect from 1 December 2016.
In accordance with his service agreement, the first such st review for Mark Allan will take place in respect of an effective date of 1 December 2017.
Base salary Base salary as at with effect from th st 30 November 1 December Executive director 2016 2016 % Increase 1 Mark Allan 565,000 565,000 Steve Burke 329,481 337,718 2.5% Rob Hudson 275,000 281,875 2.5% st 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016.
Benefits and pension arrangements th Benefits and pension arrangements for the financial year ending 30 November 2017 will be consistent with the respective policies detailed on page 78.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 93 Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed remuneration policy, executive directors will have the opportunity to be awarded a bonus th of up to 150% of salary in the financial year ending 30 November 2017.
Arrangements will be consistent with the annual bonus policy detailed on page 79.
Bonus awards will based on achievement of the following measures: Weighting as Threshold On-target Stretch Super stretch Measure Link to strategy % of award performance performance performance performance Corporate: Trading profit Reflects profitability of the 25% Budget Budget Budget Budget business after operating costs -10% 10% 20% Total accounting return Recognises the delivery of 25% Budget Budget Budget Budget significant added value -15% 15% 30% See-through loan-to-value Ensures continued balance 25% Budget Budget Budget Budget sheet strength 5% -5% -10% Personal: Individual targets for Ensures that each director 25% Substantially Met Exceeded Significantly executive directors focuses on his individual met exceeded contribution in the broadest sense through business performance, leadership role, people and team, and personal development objectives Award % of salary 37.5% 75.0% 112.5% 150.0% Award % of maximum opportunity 25.0% 50.0% 75.0% 100.0% The Committee has set specific targets for all corporate measures, which reflect the Committees judgement of the ability of management to influence performance within the year.
On-target performance will deliver 50% of the maximum opportunity.
Stretch targets are demanding and will require a very substantial outperformance of budget to achieve maximum payout.
Achievement of personal objectives will be determined through a formal performance review process.
The proportion of the bonus that can be paid out in respect of the achievement of personal objectives will be limited to not more than one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
The threshold, target, stretch and super stretch performance requirements for financial objectives, together with outcomes, will be disclosed th in the Remuneration Report for the year ending 30 November 2017.
This report will also include detailed commentary on the key deliverables, and assessment of outcomes, for personal objectives.
Any bonus awarded will be subject to the requirement to invest 40% of the net amount paid in purchasing shares in the Company and to retain these shares for at least three years, irrespective of whether the executive director has met the shareholding requirement.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 94 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Long-term incentives Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed remuneration policy and 2017 Performance Share Plan PSP at the 2017 AGM, PSP th awards to be granted to executive directors in the financial year ending 30 November 2017 will be over shares worth 150% of salary 180% of salary for Mark Allan as detailed on page 90 and will be consistent with the long-term incentives policy detailed on page 80.
Noting the concerns of some investors with regard to the use of absolute TSR as a performance measure, it is proposed that, for the 2016 17 awards, this be replaced with total accounting return TAR.
TAR measures growth in net asset value NAV, a key measure for the business, plus dividends and can be used effectively as an indicator of longer-term performance.
The Committee believes that relative TSR remains an appropriate measure of performance for the Company and so intends to retain this for the 2016 17 awards, with equal weighting between relative TSR and TAR measures.
Relative TSR performance will be assessed on a median to upper quartile ranking approach, which the Committee believes is more appropriate than the current index outperformance basis.
The TSR peer group, previously comprising all the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate & Investment Services Index, will be replaced with a bespoke comparator group of real estate companies but excluding specialist sub-sectors such as estate agencies, self-storage and healthcare.
The constituents of the comparator group will be considered in advance of each award: the constituents of this bespoke group for the 2016 17 awards are set out below.
A&J Mucklow Group Grainger Land Securities Group Shaftesbury British Land Company Great Portland Estates LondonMetric Property St. Modwen Properties Capital & Counties Properties Hammerson Picton Property Income Town Centre Securities Capital & Regional Hansteen Holdings Regional REIT U and I Group Derwent London Helical SEGRO Workspace Group The Committee is satisfied that the targets proposed for the 2016 17 awards, set out in the table below, are suitably stretching.
Performance th against each target will be measured independently over the three financial years ending on 30 November 2019.
The vesting percentage for threshold performance has been reduced from 25% to 20% of the maximum opportunity: this will deliver less value as a percentage of salary at, and requiring stretching performance for vesting beyond, threshold performance.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Performance measure Link to strategy performance performance performance performance Relative TSR performance Rewards outperformance of the returns Companys 20% Companys 100% 50% of award generated by a comparator group TSR is ranked TSR is ranked comprising listed company peers at median at or above of the the upper Directly correlates reward with the return comparator quartile of the delivered to shareholders through share groups TSR comparator price growth and dividend payments groups TSR Provides an objective measure of the Companys long-term success Total accounting return Rewards delivery of continued long-term 5% average 20% 11% average 100% 50% of award significant added value per annum per annum Key internal measure of the Companys long-term performance Reflects value added by the Companys asset management activities Vesting of awards between threshold and maximum performance will be on a straight-line basis.
Performance below threshold would result in nil vesting for that measure.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 95 Directors remuneration report continued In calculating TSR, a three-month average is used at both the start and the end of the performance period to ensure that the calculation is not impacted by potential volatility arising from day-to-day share price fluctuations.
The TSR data and relative positioning of St. Modwen is provided by New Bridge Street to ensure that performance is independently verified.
Total accounting return performance will be subject to audit by the Companys auditor.
The 2016 17 awards will be subject to an underpin condition which the Committee must be satisfied has been met before permitting awards to vest, namely that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the three-year performance period.
The 2016 17 awards will also be subject to a compulsory two-year post-vesting holding period, which will require executive directors to hold any shares vesting after tax for a period of two years, meaning there can be no disposal of shares for a period of at least five years from grant.
The holding period will remain in place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year holding period.
Chairman and non-executive director fees Following a review by the Board, the annual fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors have been increased in line with st the cost of living salary increase awarded to the Companys employees with effect from 1 December 2016.
Fee with Fee as at effect from th st 30 November 1 December 2016 2016 % Increase Base fee Chairman 159,135 163,113 2.5% Non-executive directors 43,709 44,801 2.5% Additional fees Senior Independent Director 9,000 9,000 Audit Committee Chairman 9,000 9,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 9,000 9,000 Dates of appointment of directors Date of contract original letter Director Date of appointment of appointment Expiry of current term Executive directors 1 st th Mark Allan 1 November 2016 6 April 2016 N A th th Steve Burke 30 November 2006 18 January 2016 N A th th Rob Hudson 28 September 2015 20 April 2015 N A Non-executive directors 2 st th st Bill Shannon 1 November 2010 18 October 2010 31 October 2017 st st st Ian Bull 1 September 2014 21 August 2014 31 August 2017 nd nd st Kay Chaldecott 22 October 2012 22 October 2012 21 October 2018 th th th Simon Clarke 11 October 2004 4 October 2004 10 October 2017 th th th Lesley James 19 October 2009 19 October 2009 18 October 2017 st th st Richard Mully 1 September 2013 16 July 2013 31 August 2019 st 1 Appointed Chief Executive on 1 December 2016. nd 2 Appointed Chairman on 22 March 2011.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 96 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Dilution limits In line with the rules of the PSP and Employee Share Option Plan, for which shareholder approval will be sought at the 2017 AGM, and the rules of the current SAYE, the Company observes the recommendation of the Investment Association that the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy awards is restricted to 10% 5% for discretionary schemes of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in any rolling 10-year period.
th The total number of shares which could be allotted under the Companys share schemes compared to the dilution limits as at 30 November 2016 was as follows: Type of scheme Limit Actual All schemes 10% 3.82% Executive schemes only 5% 3.64% th As at 30 November 2016, the Companys Employee Share Trust the Trust held 269,334 shares 2015: 690,274 shares in the Company to enable it to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards.
In accordance with the Trust deed, the Trust has waived the right to receive dividends paid on these shares with the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
Committee membership The Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that they have a sound and objective understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, executive remuneration matters.
Ongoing training is undertaken as required.
Committee meetings and attendance during the th 1 Remuneration Committee members year ended 30 November 2016 Lesley James Chairman 4 4 Ian Bull Member 4 4 Kay Chaldecott Member 4 4 Richard Mully Member 4 4 Bill Shannon Member 4 4 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend.
Remuneration Committee attendees by invitation th Bill Oliver Chief Executive to 30 November 2016 st Mark Allan Chief Executive from 1 December 2016 Simon Clarke Non-executive director Tanya Stote Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee Representatives from New Bridge Street Remuneration Committee advisor Advice provided to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd the parent company of NBS, was re-appointed by the Committee in 2014 following a tender process to provide independent advice on remuneration matters.
Representatives from NBS attend Committee meetings and provide advice to the Committee Chairman outside of meetings as necessary.
In 2015 16 NBS provided specific advice to the Committee in respect of its review of the Companys remuneration policy for directors and subsequent shareholder consultation on proposed amendments, remuneration arrangements relating to the retirement of Bill Oliver and the appointment of Mark Allan, and TSR monitoring services.
NBS also provides advice in relation to non-executive director remuneration.
Fees are charged on a cost incurred basis th with advice to the Committee totalling 136,000 in the year ended 30 November 2016.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under the Groups code which sets out the scope and conduct of the role of executive remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
NBS does not undertake any other work for the Company, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by NBS remains objective and independent.
The Committee also receives input from the Chief Executive on the remuneration arrangements of the other executive directors and of the Company Secretary, and advice from the Company Secretary on governance matters.
Neither the Chief Executive nor the Company Secretary were present when their own remuneration was discussed.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 97 Directors remuneration report continued Activities of the Committee th The Committee met on four occasions in the financial year ended 30 November 2016 to consider the following matters: to consider investor feedback on the Companys remuneration policy and the report on directors remuneration for the 2015 Annual Report: to review market trends and the governance environment in respect of remuneration arrangements: to determine proposed amendments to the Companys remuneration policy for directors and consult with major institutional investors and shareholder representative bodies on the intended changes ahead of the 2017 AGM at which shareholder approval will be sought: to agree the rules of replacement long-term incentive arrangements for which shareholder approval will also be sought at the 2017 AGM: to determine the application of the remuneration policy for the recruitment of Mark Allan and the retirement of Bill Oliver: to review the executive directors base salaries and the fee payable to the Chairman: to set corporate and personal objectives for the 2016 17 annual bonus arrangements for executive directors and undertake an assessment of performance against targets for 2015 16: to approve the outturn of PSP awards granted in 2013: to approve share awards granted in 2016 together with associated performance criteria: and to prepare this report on directors remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting at the AGM The table below details the results of the shareholder vote to approve the Directors remuneration report at the 2016 AGM and the shareholder vote to approve the current remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
1 Resolution AGM Votes for % of vote for Votes against % of vote against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of Directors remuneration report 2016 148,367,066 89.65% 17,125,133 10.35% 165,492,199 1,681,491 Approval of remuneration policy 2014 156,644,976 98.79% 1,916,724 1.21% 158,561,700 3,962,858 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Lesley James Chairman of the Remuneration Committee th 6 February 2017 St. Modwen Properties PLC 98 Annual report and financial statements 2016
