STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors remuneration report Incentivising the delivery of the strategy and value creation Dear Shareholder This letter summarises the major decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee for Our 2016 decisions reflect the year and describes the context in which theprogress made in they were made.
executing the strategy Context andthe continued focus Although the economic environment has onincentivising long-term remained challenging, we have made good progress in the execution of the strategy, performance announced in November 2015.
2016 has seen some improvement infinancial Christine Hodgson performance but returns are still not Chair of the Remuneration Committee wherethey need to be.
Details of how we are performing against our strategic objectives are set out in the Key performance indicators section on HIGHLIGHTS pages 18 to 20 The Committee considered other factors Financial and strategic performance in 2016 delivered aGroup aspart of the wider context when scorecard outcome of45 per cent of the maximum.
This resulted determining 2016 remuneration outcomes.
indirectors annual incentives of18 per cent of fixed remuneration These included: 2016 Group discretionary incentives of$1,039 million The continued importance of rewarding and incentivising employees to Changes made to employee remuneration arrangements to simplify, execute the strategy align toperformance scorecards, and improve competitiveness ofpay Taking a global approach to for our most junior employees remuneration, as we are an international employer with 96 per cent of employees based outside Europe & Americas Wage inflation pressures in many of theemerging markets in which the Groupoperates Directors remuneration in 2016 In May 2016 shareholders approved a newdirectors remuneration policy which isaligned to the Groups strategy.
The Committee appreciates the strong endorsement from investors for the policy.
Feedback received on the policy will beconsidered when the policy is next renewed.
Under the policy, executive directors were eligible in 2016 for a maximum annual incentive of 40 per cent of fixed remuneration.
The Committee determined that Bill Winters and Andy Halford should receive annual incentives of 45 per cent of www.
com 93 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT the maximum based on an assessment competitiveness of pay for our most junior CONTENTS Page ofthe Group scorecard.
A new scorecard approach inanannual incentive of 18 per cent of wasadopted across the Group and used Directors remuneration 95 fixedremuneration.
todetermine the allocation of incentives.
summary Scorecards across all businesses were Long-term incentive plan LTIP awards measured on performance in respect Report on remuneration 96 to 111 willbe granted in March 2017 to Bill and offinancial and strategic measures.
Andy, delivered in shares witha face value All employee remuneration 112 to 114 of 160 per cent of fixed remuneration at the policy The Committee concluded that it would time of award.
These awards will be subject beappropriate that the majority of the Directors remuneration 115 to 118 to the satisfaction oflong-term performance senior managements incentives for 2016 policy measures, which are assessed after three performance were awarded in the form of years.
These performance measures are LTIP awards.
These long-term awards Additional remuneration 119 to 123 comprised of return on equity RoE with disclosures incentivise the continued execution of the aCommon Equity Tier 1 CET1 underpin, strategy, and the value of the LTIP awards relative total shareholder return TSR and will be determined byGroup performance other measures which are aligned with the over the period 2017 to 2019. strategy.
Ifperformance measures are achieved, theshares will vest over the Directors remuneration in 2017 period 2020 to2024.
In 2017 there will be no change to fixed All LTIP awards granted to former executive remuneration.
The transition to the variable directors in March 2014 will lapse in full in remuneration model approved by March 2017.
The performance measures shareholders in 2016 will be completed, have not been met.
with a maximum of 80 per cent of fixed remuneration delivered in annual incentives In response to investor feedback we have and a maximum of 120 per cent of fixed disclosed directors remuneration in sterling remuneration delivered in an LTIP.
where possible inthis years report.
This will provide increased clarity and transparency The 2017 annual incentive scorecard as this is the currency in whichremuneration comprises a balanced combination of is set and paid.
This Directors remuneration report has Group performance and remuneration been prepared by the Committee and for2016 approved by the Board.
The Committee determined that discretionary incentives for 2016 should be$1,039 million.
This includes annual incentives, long-term incentives and incentives paid to eligible leavers, and represents an increase of 5 per cent on 2015.
The Committee decided the incentives were required in order to reward and incentivise those employees who remain with the Group tocontinue to deliver Christine Hodgson the strategy.
Since 2012, incentives are Chair of the Remuneration Committee down by27 per cent.
In 2016, the Committee reviewed the remuneration policy for all employees, including a review of the remuneration principles set out on page 112.
Changes have been made to improve the 94 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
