SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
The year under review The year ahead Dear shareholder Our Directors Remuneration Policy was approved in September As outlined above, no changes will be made to the Directors The Directors Remuneration Report has been divided into three 2014 with 94% of votes cast in favour.
The Committee gave full Remuneration Policy for FY17.
Base salary increases of 3.7% parts: consideration to the operation of the policy prior to proposing it Euan Sutherland and 2.0% Other Executive Directors were 1.
The Remuneration Committee Chairmans Annual to shareholders at the AGM and considers the level of support awarded to the Executive Directors with effect from 1 May 2016.
Statement: This summarises and explains the major obtained to be a strong endorsement.
The Committee has This compares with an average increase of 2.4% across the decisions taken by the Committee, how the Directors reviewed the Directors Remuneration Policy during the year and Group.
In Euan Sutherlands case the level of increase reflects Remuneration Policy was operated in the year just ended and remains of the view that it promotes the attraction, motivation his ongoing performance and contribution.
The annual bonus how it will operate for the current year.
and retention of the executives required to successfully drive our will continue to be capped at 100% of base salary any award strategy.
As such, the Committee has decided that no changes in excess of 100% being awarded in deferred shares based on 2.
Directors Remuneration Policy: This sets out the basis to the Directors Remuneration Policy are required.
challenging financial, business and personal strategic targets.
of remuneration for our Directors which was approved PSP awards will continue to be based 70% on EPS and 30% by shareholders at the AGM in September 2014 and is As announced on 12 May 2016, James Holder resigned on relative TSR.
The Chief Executive Officer will receive an award unchanged.
Although not required to be included in the as an employee and a Director and ceased employment on of 200% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer will receive an report this year, the policy has been included in line with best 1 June 2016.
He received his normal remuneration up to this award of 100% of salary.
Malus and clawback provisions will practice and to assist the reader.
No further payments will be made to James in connection continue to apply.
with his resignation from office.
Annual Report on Remuneration: This sets out the The Committee is confident that the continuation of the remuneration earned by our Directors in the year ended Performance and reward previously approved Directors Remuneration Policy will ensure 30 April 2016 and explains how the remuneration policy will As a result of this years financial performance target having that the Executive Directors are properly incentivised to deliver be implemented in the current financial year.
been met in full there will be a full annual bonus payment strong and sustainable growth.
A full review of the Remuneration made to Executive Directors for the year ended 30 April 2016 Each part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Policy will be undertaken during 2017 and a new policy will be in respect of the Groups financial performance.
Having met Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Major their agreed FY16 personal and strategic objectives, Euan Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, 9.8.
8R shareholders and representative bodies will be consulted in due Sutherland and Nick Wharton will receive full bonus in respect of the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
No bonus award will be made Keith Edelman Part 1: Remuneration Committee to the Executive Directors in respect of the shared business Remuneration Committee Chairman target.
As in previous years, Julian Dunkerton and James Holder Chairmans Annual Statement unaudited 13 July 2016 have elected to waive their FY16 bonus award.
Details of the Overview payments awarded are set out on pages 76 to 77.
The approach of the Committee has remained consistent with previous years: Executive Directors receive a mix of annual and The performance share plan PSP award granted in 2013 in long-term incentives which reward strong business and financial respect of the three-year performance period which ended on performance in line with our strategy and which are measured 30 April 2016 is due to vest in August 2016 and is expected against robust benchmarks.
The Committee considers that to vest at 69% of the original award.
This is based on 55.7% the remuneration arrangements promote our long-term vesting against the earnings per share EPS targets 70% of success within a suitable risk framework, are suitably aligned to awards and 100% against the relative total shareholder return shareholder interests and that the actual remuneration earned TSR targets 30% of awards.
None of the current Executive by the Executive Directors continues to be a good reflection of Directors holds 2013 PSP awards.
Further details about our their individual and our overall performance.
share schemes can be found on pages 69 to 70. www.
co. uk 66 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Part 2: Directors Remuneration Policy unaudited In formulating the remuneration policy, full consideration has been given to the principles set out in the Code.
The Committee regularly reviews the policy to ensure it takes account of best practice Financial and serves our needs.
As part of the regular review, the Committee encourages dialogue with major shareholders and considers their feedback, alongside guidance from the major shareholder Statements representative bodies.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
This section sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 19 September 2014 in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
There are no proposed changes to this policy.
Policy overview We aim to provide a remuneration structure and approach that enables the attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre people with the capability to drive continued growth of the business and which is aligned to shareholder interests.
Where the Committee has discretion in implementing the remuneration policy, that discretion will be exercised diligently and in a manner aligned with shareholder interests.
Discretion will only be exercised within the boundaries and limits set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee will not seek to make changes to any element of Executive Director remuneration to compensate participants for changes in their personal tax status.
Summary of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy Element Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Set at levels to attract and retain talented Executive Directors of the high calibre required to develop and deliver the growth strategy.
Base salary will reflect the individual skill, experience and role of the executive within the Group whilst reflecting that paid to executives of comparable companies.
Operation When determining base salary the Committee typically takes into account: business and individual performance: salary levels at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity: and the salaries paid to other employees across the Group.
Base salary is normally paid on a monthly basis in cash.
The base salary for each Executive Director is normally reviewed annually in May by the Committee although an out of cycle review may be conducted if the Committee determines it appropriate.
A salary review will not necessarily lead to an increase in salary.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum base salary level or maximum annual increase.
Salary increases will typically be in line with the general level of increase awarded to other employees in the Group and or the Directors country of employment.
In exceptional circumstances e. g. where there is an increase in scale, scope and or responsibility, to reflect the development and success of the individual within the role, and or to take account of relevant levels market movements a higher increase may be awarded.
Current salaries are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures Individual and business performance is taken into consideration when deciding salary levels.
co. uk 67 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Element Retirement Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide retirement benefits which are market competitive and to enable us to attract and retain Executive Directors of the right calibre.
Operation Executive Directors can choose to participate in the personal pension plan relevant to the country where they are employed, or to receive a cash allowance, or a combination of the two.
Our Group personal pension plan is a defined contribution plan.
Maximum opportunity The maximum Company contribution to an Executive Directors pension or equivalent cash allowance may not exceed 15% of base salary.
Element Other Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To ensure a competitiveness with broader market practice.
To support personal health and well-being.
Operation Benefit provision is set at an appropriate market level taking into account the Executive Directors home jurisdiction, the jurisdiction where they are based, market practices at similar companies and the level type of benefits provided elsewhere in the Group.
The benefits to which Executive Directors are entitled include but are not limited to a biannual health assessment, private medical insurance for the individual and their family, company sick pay, holiday pay, life assurance, car allowance and staff discount on Superdry products.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate.
In country and global relocation support may also be provided where appropriate.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate, on the same basis as other employees, in our Sharesave scheme and will be entitled to participate in any other all-employee share plan operated in the future.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum level of benefits provided to an individual Executive Director.
Participation by Executive Directors in the Sharesave scheme, and any other all-employee share plan operated in the future, is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by HM Revenue and Customs.
Element Annual Performance Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To encourage and reward the achievement of challenging financial and strategic performance targets during a financial year.
The performance measures set each year align to our strategy and shareholder value creation.
Operation Bonus payments are normally awarded in cash and are not pensionable.
An individual Executive Director may choose to defer bonus awarded into our Group personal pension plan.
The Committee may defer part of an Executive Directors annual bonus into SuperGroup shares for a specified period of time.
Maximum opportunity Up to 150% of base salary.
co. uk 68 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Element Annual Performance Bonus Financial Performance measures Performance is normally assessed over one financial year.
Statements The annual performance bonus may be based on a mix of financial, personal and or strategic business objectives relevant to the particular performance year and is aimed at securing a sustainable long-term business model.
The performance criteria and performance targets are determined by the Committee each year and include threshold levels for minimum award below which no bonus will be awarded, on-target award and maximum award.
The Committee will set demanding performance targets to encourage stretch performance.
These targets are considered to be commercially confidential and will therefore be disclosed in due course after the performance period has ended.
A straight-line sliding scale between threshold 0% of opportunity, target 50% of opportunity and maximum 100% of opportunity is used to determine the level of award.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Element Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward Executive Directors to develop and deliver strategic plans that create long-term value through the setting of strategic targets: and to ensure a strong link between reward, underlying Group financial performance and total shareholder returns.
To support recruitment, long-term retention and collaborative working through share ownership.
Operation Awards are granted on a discretionary basis and normally vest subject to performance and continued employment at the end of a three-year performance and vesting period.
Awards may be structured as conditional awards or nil or nominal cost options.
Executive Directors may benefit, in the form of cash or shares, from the value of any dividend paid over the vesting period to the extent that awards vest.
Maximum opportunity Maximum award limit: 200% of salary.
Exceptional circumstances award limit: 300% of salary for recruitment or retention.
Performance measures Normally based on a three-year performance period.
Performance measures will be based on financial metrics e. g. Earnings Per Share EPS and or relative total shareholder return TSR.
25% of an award vests for threshold performance increasing to 100% vesting for maximum performance.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply.
Element Share Ownership Guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To increase alignment between management and shareholders.
Operation Executive directors not holding shares worth at least 100% of their base salary will be expected to retain 50% of any PSP awards which vest net of tax until such time as this level of holding is met.
Maximum opportunity Minimum of 100% of base salary.
co. uk 69 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Financial performance measures e. g. EPS and TSR are used Annual performance bonus consistent with the policy for for the PSPs performance criteria.
The Groups key performance Executive Directors, annual bonuses that are in place across indicators, as set out in the Strategic Report, contribute to the the Group are typically linked to business performance with a delivery of profit before tax, EPS and TSR.
The combination focus on underlying Group profit, although we retain the right of EPS and TSR performance conditions for the PSP provides to void a bonus award in circumstances where we deem an a balance between rewarding management for growth in individual has not performed to an acceptable level or has sustainable profitability and stock market outperformance.
acted inappropriately during the performance period.
TSR is a clear indicator of the relative success of the Group in PSP a small number of the management team who provide delivering shareholder value and, as a performance measure, significant strategic input or lead a significant function within firmly aligns the interests of Directors and shareholders.
The the Company, and more junior employees who have made an EPS target range will require significant levels of growth and exceptional contribution, may be invited to participate in the the TSR condition will be based on relative outperformance of PSP in any financial year.
Performance against the TSR and EPS targets will be independently calculated and reviewed by All employee share schemes in the UK the Company the Committee.
operates a Save as You Earn SAYE Sharesave share scheme and a Buy as You Earn BAYE share scheme which In approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority was is open to all eligible employees.
Under the SAYE scheme given to the Company to honour any commitments entered employees can elect to save up to 500 each month for a into with current or former Directors.
Details of any payments fixed period of three years.
At the end of the savings period, to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on individuals may use their savings to buy ordinary SuperGroup Remuneration as they arise.
shares at a discount capped at up to 20% of the market price set at the launch of the scheme.
The BAYE scheme gives Remuneration arrangements across the Group employees the opportunity to buy shares up to the value of The reward philosophy is consistent across the Group, namely 1,800 per year using pre-tax earnings.
For every ten shares that reward should support our business strategy and be purchased through this scheme the Company offers one free sufficient to attract and retain high performing individuals.
this framework, there are differences for a range of objective reasons, including global location, culture, best practice, Retirement benefits in line with local country practices, we employment regulation and the local talent market.
encourage all employees to contribute appropriate savings toward their retirement.
In the UK, we operate pension Salaries and benefits a range of factors are considered arrangements within the Occupational and Personal Pension including business performance, individual capability and Schemes Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010. performance, the pay of other employees and external market data.
co. uk 70 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Executive Directors service agreements The following table sets out a description of any obligations on the Company, contained in the current Executive Directors service contracts, which could give rise to, or impact, remuneration Financial payments or payments for loss of office.
Statements Element Terms Notice period A maximum of 12 months by the Company and 12 months by the Executive Director.
Contract date Euan Sutherland 22 October 2014 Julian Dunkerton 12 March 2010 James Holder 12 March 2010 resigned 1 June 2016 Nick Wharton 24 June 2015 Expiry date Euan Sutherland, Julian Dunkerton, and Nick Wharton have no fixed expiry date.
Base salary Contractual entitlement to receive a base salary and for a salary review to take place each year.
We are not obliged to increase an Executive Directors salary following a review.
Pension contributions Employer pension contribution.
Contractual benefits Contractual entitlement to: private medical insurance: company sick pay: life assurance: holiday pay: car allowance: and discount on Superdry products.
Contractual entitlement to participate in the annual performance bonus scheme, subject to our policy in relation to such a scheme and to the Annual bonus approval of the Committee.
Contractual entitlement to be considered for participation in the PSP, subject to our policy in relation to such a scheme and to the approval of the Long-term incentive plan PSP Committee.
The service contract for a new Executive Director will not include any provision that is more generous than those listed above.
All Executive Director service contracts are available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of business and will also be available at our AGM to be held on 14 September 2016.
With the consent of the Board, where an appointment can enhance an individual Executive Directors experience and add value to the Company, Executive Directors are able to accept non-executive appointments outside the Company.
Two members of the Executive Committee currently hold Non-Executive Directorships: Euan Sutherland with Britvic plc and Nick Wharton with Mothercare plc.
Retention of any fees received by the Executive Director is at the discretion of the Committee.
Annual fees retained by Euan Sutherland and Nick Wharton are 55,000 and 50,000 respectively.
co. uk 71 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be The operation of our Sharesave and BAYE will be as permitted Discretions retained by the Committee explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, under HM Revenue and Customs rules and the Listing Rules.
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with our major Details of shares or interests in shares held by Executive according to their respective rules or relevant documents shareholders.
Directors at the end of the financial year are set out in the and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Annual Report on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest Committee retains certain discretions, consistent with market based on their original award terms.
practice, with regard to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following in relation to the PSP: the participants: the timing of grant of Illustrations of application of the Directors Remuneration Policy an award: the size of an award: the determination of vesting: Our remuneration arrangements have been designed so that a substantial proportion of reward is dependent on the achievement of discretion required if dealing with a change of control or stretching short and long-term performance targets.
The chart below shows the value of the current executive directors packages restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of under three reward scenarios minimum, on-target and maximum.
leavers: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. 3,500 rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : reviewing performance measures and weighting: and 3,000 targets for the PSP from year to year.
1,400 In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains 2,500 discretion over: the participants: the timing of grant of a payment: the determination of the bonus payment: dealing with 2,000 a change of control: determination of the treatment of leavers 700 based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment 1,500 1,050 chosen: the annual review of performance measures and 525 weighting: and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to 408 1,000 204 year.
408 408 204 204 500 836 836 836 In relation to both our PSP and annual bonus plan, the 485 485 485 427 427 427 Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set 0 different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the adjustment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
We have used Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Product and Brand Director EPS as a determining measure since inception for the PSP: Fixed Variable PSP it is therefore consistent and transparent to participants and The chart above is based on the following assumptions: shareholders.
The Committee will exercise discretion if required to adjust EPS to reflect what it considers to be a fairer outcome base salary as at 1 May 2016: for shareholders and Executive Directors.
estimated value of benefits and pension: on-target bonus taken to be 50% of the maximum potential 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer, 100% of salary for other executive directors : on-target PSP award excluding Julian Dunkerton and James Holder is taken to be 50% of the maximum potential 200% of salary for Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for Chief Financial Officer : and consistent with the disclosure requirements, no share price appreciation has been assumed.
co. uk 72 000 Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance period actually served.
However, in the event of the death of an Approach to the recruitment and retention of Policy on payment for loss of office Executive Director, the Committee has discretion to determine We are committed to ensuring a consistent approach so that we Executive Directors Financial that awards vest at cessation, subject to performance targets, do not pay more than is necessary in circumstances leading to Principles Statements with no service pro rata reduction.
In the event of an early termination of a contract, When hiring a new Executive Director or promoting to the Board the policy is to seek to minimise any liability.
When managing from within the Group, the Committee will offer a package that is Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, such situations the Committee takes a range of factors into sufficient to attract, retain and motivate the right talent, whilst at including untaken holiday entitlement.
account, including contractual obligations, shareholder interests, all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
In determining organisational stability and the need to ensure an effective In addition, as is consistent with market practice, we may pay an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take handover.
Executive Directors may be entitled to a payment in a contribution towards an Executive Directors legal fees for into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited lieu of notice PILON if notice is served by us.
In the normal entering into a statutory agreement and may pay a contribution to the impact on other existing remuneration arrangements, the course of events, the Executive Director would work their towards fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated candidates location and experience, external market influences notice period.
In the event of termination for cause e. g. gross settlement.
misconduct or negligence, neither notice nor PILON would There is no provision for additional compensation on termination The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be given and the Executive Director would cease to perform following a change of control, nor liquidated damages of any be set in accordance with the terms of our prevailing approved services immediately.
remuneration policy at the time of appointment and take into In the event of termination for reasons other than cause for account the skills and experience of the individual, the market Consideration of conditions elsewhere in our example, resignation where the individual is requested by us to rate for a candidate of that experience and the importance of cease working before the end of the notice period, PILON may Company securing the relevant individual.
If a portion of the notice period is served, the PILON The Committee has oversight of the main compensation Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract payment will be reduced on a pro rata basis.
Payments may structures throughout the Group and actively considers the most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at be made on a phased basis.
Alternatively, rather than making a the relationship between general changes to employee a below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress PILON, we may place an Executive Director on garden leave for remuneration and Executive Director reward.
When considering towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance the duration of some or all of their notice period.
changes to Executive Director remuneration, the Committee is has been proven and sustained.
The annual bonus potential provided with comparative employee information for example, Where an Executive Director leaves during a financial year, the would be limited to 150% of salary and grants under the average salary review across the Group.
annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the PSP would be limited to 200% of salary 300% of salary in financial year worked although it will be pro rated for time and The Committee does not consider it appropriate to consult exceptional circumstances.
paid at the normal payment date.
directly with employees when formulating Executive Director In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and reward policy.
However, it does take into account information Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive or share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay provided by the Group HR Director.
Director under our share plans will be determined based forfeited by an Executive Director leaving a previous employer.
on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards Consideration of shareholder views PSP is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of would be consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting The members of the Committee are always available to discuss employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, periods, expected value and performance conditions.
For any issues or concerns with shareholders.
such as death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, sale of the an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay employing company or business outside the Group or any other element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other status may be applied.
For good leavers, awards will normally ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment vest on their normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the of the relevant performance conditions at that time and will be Committee may agree that certain relocation and or incidental reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance expenses as appropriate will be met.
co. uk 73 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Summary of the Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy The Board aims to recruit high calibre Non-Executive Directors with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
The remuneration policy is as follows: Element Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Fees are set at an appropriate level to attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors, and reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of each role and fees paid in other companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity.
Operation Fees are normally reviewed annually.
Fees are normally paid in cash.
Each Non-Executive Director is paid a basic fee for undertaking Non-Executive Director and Board duties.
A higher fee is typically paid to the Chairman of the Board and the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees may also be payable for taking on Committee responsibilities and other Board duties.
Non-Executive Directors also receive staff discount on Superdry products.
Maximum opportunity As is the case for the Executive Directors, there is no prescribed maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
Performance measures Individual and business performance is taken into consideration when deciding fee levels.
When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the remuneration arrangements offered will be consistent with the policy presented above.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years.
This period may be renewed.
Appointments may be terminated by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director giving three months notice, or in the case of the Chairman, 12 months written notice.
Save in respect of retirement by rotation, a Non-Executive Director being removed from office will be entitled to compensation equal to the fee during any remaining notice period.
Date of appointment Expected date of Name or reappointment expiry of current term Peter Bamford 29 January 2016 AGM September 2018 Keith Edelman 29 January 2016 AGM September 2017 Penny Hughes 1 April 2015 31 March 2018 Ken McCall 29 January 2016 13 July 2016 Minnow Powell 1 December 2015 AGM September 2018 Steve Sunnucks 1 March 2016 AGM September 2019 All Non-Executive Director letters of appointment are available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of business and will also be available at our AGM to be held on 14 September 2016. www.
co. uk 74 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Benefits in kind and pension unaudited believes his significant shareholding in the Company is sufficient Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration Benefits will continue to include a bi-annual health assessment, to incentivise him and align interests with long-term Company The following part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Financial private medical insurance for the individual and their family, sick performance at the current time.
together with the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statements pay, holiday pay, life assurance, car allowance and staff discount Annual Statement, will be subject to an advisory vote at the Awards vest three years after grant subject to service and on Superdry products.
Other benefits may be provided where AGM to be held on 14 September 2016 and sets out how the performance conditions.
We will continue to contribute no more than 15% Directors Remuneration Policy will be implemented in FY17, of salary into the Group personal pension plan and or in the form Consistent with the FY16 awards, performance for FY17 awards and how it was implemented in FY16.
This part of the report of a salary supplement.
will be 70% based on sliding scale EPS and 30% based on TSR has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and relative to a selected group of retailers as measured over the threeMedium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Annual bonus unaudited year period ending at the 2019 financial year end: Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
We will continue to operate an annual bonus plan for FY17 based on the achievement of challenging financial metrics, business 25% of the EPS-related component of the award will vest for The following sections of the Annual Report and Financial objectives and personal strategic objectives.
Specific targets will average annual EPS growth of 8% p. a. increasing on a straightStatements are identified as audited or unaudited as not be disclosed in advance as they are commercially confidential, line basis to 100% vesting for EPS growth of 12% p. a. : and appropriate.
but will be disclosed next year.
The maximum bonus opportunity 25% of the TSR-related component of the award will vest if the in FY17 will be 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2017: Companys TSR is ranked at the median of a comparator group and 100% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Base salary audited increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at the upper Executive Directors base salaries are normally reviewed Long-term incentives unaudited quartile of the group.
The comparator group for the awards will annually, taking into account business and individual The SuperGroup PSP enables us to incentivise and reward comprise the companies listed in the following FTSE AllShare performance, salary levels at companies of a similar size, participants appropriately for contributing to the delivery of our subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing industry, global scope and complexity and the salaries paid to strategic objectives and to provide an appropriate level of longand Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, other employees across the Group.
Recreational Products, Speciality Retailers and Toys at the start Current annual base salary levels are as follows: of the TSR performance period.
For FY17, the PSP grant for the Chief Executive Officer, Euan Sutherland will be 200% of salary and for the Chief Financial From From In addition to the TSR performance condition, the Committee 1 May 2016 26 April 2015 Officer, Nick Wharton, will be 100% of salary.
Although Julian must also be satisfied that there has been an improvement in our Dunkerton is eligible to participate in the PSP, the Committee underlying financial performance.
Euan Sutherland Chief Executive Officer 700,000 675,000 Non-Executive Directors audited Julian Founder, Product & Fee levels for FY17 are as follows: Dunkerton Brand Director 408,000 400,000 From From Audit Remuneration Senior Independent 1 May 26 April James Founder, Brand & 1 Name Base fee Committee chairmanship Director 2016 2015 1 Holder Design Director 306,000 300,000 Peter Bamford 190,000 190,000 190,000 Nick 2 Keith Edelman 50,000 10,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 Wharton Chief Financial Officer 408,000 400,000 Penny Hughes 50,000 50,000 50,000 1.
James Holder resigned as an employee and Director and ceased employment on 1 June 2016.
Nick Wharton was appointed on 24 June 2015.
Steve Sunnucks was appointed on 1 March 2016. www.
co. uk 75 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Benefits for 2016 comprised a car allowance and medical insurance for all the Executive Directors.
For Executive and Non-Executive Directors certain expenses relating to the performance of a Directors duties in carrying out activities, such as travel to and from Company meetings, are classified as taxable benefits by HMRC.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Director is not out of pocket by settling the related tax via the PAYE Settlement Agreement PSA.
In line with current regulations these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the taxable benefits column in the Directors Remuneration table above.
The figures shown include the cost of the expenses grossed up for tax and national insurance.
Euan Sutherland and Nick Wharton received a Company contribution of 15% of base salary in the form of either pension contribution or cash allowance.
Susanne Given left the Company on 31 August 2015.
The table above shows his remuneration as an Executive Director.
Prior to commencing employment with the Group, Nick was remunerated as a consultant.
In the period 27 April 2015 to 23 June 2015 he received 178,277 for services as a consultant.
co. uk 76 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Annual bonus for the year ended 30 April 2016 audited For FY16 the maximum annual bonus opportunity was 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
The performance against the targets was as Financial follows: Statements Start to earn Full Payout Actual Bonus Award 1 Profit-related targets 70% of Executive Directors bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Maximum Full payment under this element 2 Shared Business target 15% of Executive Directors bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Zero Zero payment under this element Personal strategic targets 15% of Executive Directors bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Maximum Full payment under this element 1.
The profit-related target for FY16, against which the maximum target was met, has not been disclosed as it is considered to be commercially confidential.
It will be published in the FY17 Annual Report.
The shared business target for FY16, against which the threshold target was not met, has not been disclosed as it is considered to be commercially confidential.
Annual bonus for the year ended 25 April 2015 audited For FY15 the maximum annual bonus opportunity was 150% of salary for Euan Sutherland as Chief Executive Officer and 100% for all other Executive Directors pro-rated from appointment where relevant.
Reflecting that Euan Sutherland was appointed part-way through the financial year, his bonus arrangement was based two-thirds on profit-related targets and one-third on personal and strategic targets, while the bonus arrangements for all other Executive Directors was based purely on profit-related targets.
Julian Dunkerton and James Holder chose to waive their bonus awards.
The performance against the targets was as follows: Start to earn Full Payout Actual Bonus Award Profit-related targets 100% of annual bonus for Executive Directors and ex Chief Threshold 68m Maximum 77m 63m 0% Executive Officer, 66.6% of Chief Executive Officers bonus.
Personal strategic targets 33.3% of Chief Executive Officers total bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Maximum Full payment under this element Chief Executive Officer only Performance share plan audited The PSP awards granted on 15 August 2013 were based on a three-year performance period ended 30 April 2016.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, the performance condition for these awards was as follows: Metric Performance Condition Threshold Target Stretch Target Actual % Vesting Earnings per share 70% 25% of this part vests for average annual EPS growth of 12% in excess of 12% 18% 12.6% 55.7% RPI, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part vesting for EPS in excess of RPI in excess of RPI in excess max.
70% growth of at least 18% per annum in excess of RPI.
of RPI Total shareholder returns 30% 25% of this part of the award vests if the Companys TSR is ranked at the Median Upper quartile Upper quartile 100% max.
30% median of the comparator companies, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting of this part if the Companys TSR is ranked at the upper quartile of the comparator group comprising FTSE AllShare companies in the following subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Recreational Products & Services, Restaurants & Bars, Speciality Retailers and Toys.
co. uk 77 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
In both the current and prior year, the Committee has excluded re-measurements and exceptional items from both the PSP and the annual bonus plan and in the current year has excluded the performance of the Groups development operations in North America and China in determining the PSP on the basis that the targets, set in 2013, excluded these operations.
None of the current Executive Directors held 2013 PSP awards at the year end.
Details of the awards held by Susanne Given are presented in the Board Changes section below.
Board Changes Payments for loss of office audited No payment has been made to James Holder following his resignation as an employee and a Director on 1 June 2016.
As such he received salary and benefits up to the date his employment ceased.
Payments to past Directors audited Susanne Given stepped down from the Board as Chief Operating Officer on 12 February 2015 and ceased employment on 31 August 2015.
She continued to receive her usual contractual entitlements up until the 31 August 2015 save for certain benefits which ceased from 31 March 2015 and received a payment in lieu of salary for the remaining notice period due under her employment contract of 204,166.
In respect of PSP awards, the 2012 award 241,615 shares under award vested on 16 August 2015 at 32.4% of the maximum.
The 2013 20,852 pro rated shares under award and the 2014 PSP 11,415 pro rated shares under award awards will vest at the normal time subject to time pro rating and performance.
Details of PSP vesting i. e. numbers of shares which vest and pre-tax value at vesting will be disclosed in the relevant years Remuneration Report.
Scheme interests awarded during the year audited PSP awards granted in the year On 14 August 2015, PSP awards were granted to Executive Directors as follows: Number of 1 Executive PSP awards Basis Face value Performance condition Performance period Euan Sutherland 91,358 200% of base salary 1,350,000 Vesting will be determined by EPS Three financial years and TSR over the Nick Wharton 54,138 200% of base salary 800,000 ending 2017 2018 performance period as described below PSP awards are structured as conditional awards.
Based on a share price of 14.77 which was the 10-day weighted average share price.
co. uk 78 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance The performance condition for these awards is set out below: Financial % of award subject to Performance condition condition Targets % of PSP award which will vest Statements 1 Average annual earnings per share EPS growth in excess of the Retail Prices Index RPI 70% Average annual EPS growth of 25% 8% in excess of RPI Average annual EPS growth of 100% 12% in excess of RPI Between 8% and 12% average annual Straight-line between EPS growth in excess of RPI 25% and 100% 2 Total Shareholder Return TSR against comparator group of companies 30% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile Straight-line between 25% and 100% 1.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust the EPS condition if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the condition is no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the condition achieves its original purpose and is not materially less difficult to satisfy.
TSR comparator group: those companies listed in the following FTSE AllShare subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Recreational Products & Services, Restaurants & Bars, Speciality Retailers and Toys.
Directors interests in share awards audited The table below set out details of the Executive Directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service.
Normal vesting At 25 April Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during At 30 April date exercise Share price on Exercise Share price on Executive Scheme 2015 2015 the period the period 2016 Date of award Performance period period date of grant price date of exercise 3 financial years Euan Sutherland PSP 193,965 193,965 22 10 2014 ending 2016 2017 22 10 2017 10.44 3 financial years PSP 91,358 91,358 14 08 2015 ending 2017 2018 14 08 2018 14.77 193,965 91,358 285,323 Nick Wharton 3 financial years PSP 54,138 54,138 14 08 2015 ending 2017 2018 14 08 2018 14.77 54,138 54,138 All awards granted under the PSP are subject to continued employment and the satisfaction of the performance conditions set out above.
The PSP awards are all structured as conditional awards.
co. uk 79 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Share ownership audited The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of SuperGroup Plc at 30 April 2016 are set out below: Interests in ordinary shares Interests in shares Shareholding guideline Director 30 April 2016 25 April 2015 achieved PSP SAYE Total Executive Directors Euan Sutherland 11,613 11,613 No 285,323 1,648 298,584 Julian Dunkerton 22,088,944 26,088,944 Yes 22,088,944 James Holder 9,384,415 9,667,190 Yes 9,384,415 Nick Wharton 5,000 No 54,138 1,648 55,786 Non-Executive Directors Peter Bamford 6,000 6,000 6,000 Keith Edelman 4,000 4,000 4,000 Penny Hughes Ken McCall 5,000 5,000 5,000 Minnow Powell 1,496 1,496 1,496 Steve Sunnucks The following sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are unaudited.
Relative importance of the spend on pay unaudited The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders and employee remuneration costs.
2016 2015 m m Change Employee remuneration costs m 83.8 67.0 25.1% Dividends m 5.0 nil n a www.
co. uk 80 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer unaudited The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year compared to the average of all employees of Financial the Group.
Statements Element of remuneration % change Salary Chief Executive Officer 3.7% Employees 2.4% Taxable benefits Chief Executive Officer nil Employees nil Annual bonus Chief Executive Officer 384% Employees n a Bonus payments are only made to a small group of senior leaders and Wholesale sales roles.
Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows the total cumulative shareholder return TSR for the Group compared with the TSR of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the period from the initial public offer to 30 April 2016.
The FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts was selected as this is the index of which the Group was a constituent for the period shown.
Investment Trusts SuperGroup 90-day moving average FTSE 250 Ex.
Investment Trusts 90-day moving average www.
co. uk 81 Share price p SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
The table below sets out the Chief Executive Officers single figure over the past seven years.
Single figure table audited Total Annual bonus Long-term incentives Year ended Chief Executive Officer remuneration % of max % of max 2016 Euan Sutherland 1,677,125 85.0% 1 3 2015 Euan Sutherland 602,862 33.3% 1 2015 Julian Dunkerton 419,180 2014 Julian Dunkerton 419,412 2013 Julian Dunkerton 419,406 2012 Julian Dunkerton 419,463 2011 Julian Dunkerton 418,745 2 2010 Julian Dunkerton 59,884 1.
Euan Sutherland was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer on 22 October 2014.
At the same time, Julian Dunkerton, previously Chief Executive Officer, switched to the newly created role of Founder and Product and Brand Director.
For the six week period to 2 May 2010.
Annual bonus is the proportion awarded of the maximum bonus opportunity.
Principal responsibilities unaudited The Committee is responsible for determining the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior executives and ensuring it remains appropriate.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: advise on the design of, and to determine and agree the total individual remuneration package of, each of the Executives and Senior Managers, giving due regard to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and recommendations set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance: review the design of, and determine targets for, all share incentive and performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: and oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group and to give advice on any such changes.
co. uk 82 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Membership as at 30 April 2016 and meetings held Adviser to the Committee Dilution During 2016 the Committee received advice from New In accordance with current guidance for employee share during the year Financial Bridge Street NBS - part of AON plc on senior executive schemes issued formerly by the ABI and assumed by The Membership and attendance Number of meetings attended held Statements remuneration and employee share schemes.
Neither NBS Investment Association in 2014, the Committee applies a Keith Edelman Chairman 6 6 nor AON plc provided other services to the Company during limit on the amount of shares which can be issued to satisfy 1 the year.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants employee share plan awards of 10% of issued share capital in Ken McCall 5 6 Group and complies with its code of conduct.
The Committee any rolling ten year period.
Of this 10%, only half can be issued Minnow Powell 6 6 is comfortable that NBSs advice remains objective and to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements.
For the year under review NBSs total fees 1.
Ken McCall steps down from the Committee on 13 July 2016 and is charged were 17,550. succeeded by Steve Sunnucks.
Actual number of meetings attended Statement of shareholder voting Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the directors At last years AGM the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: could have been attended For Against Votes cast Votes withheld The Committee met six times during the year.
In addition to the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors members of the Committee, which comprised independent Remuneration Policy Non-Executive Directors, the executive and other Non-Executive Directors attended Committee meetings by invitation of the Total number of votes 72,404,449 130,067 72,534,516 261,825 Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed.
Peter Bamford Chairman, Penny Hughes Non- % of votes cast 99.82 0.18 100.00 Executive Director, Euan Sutherland Chief Executive Officer, The Directors Remuneration Report, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM Lindsay Beardsell Group General Counsel and Company on 14 September 2016.
Secretary and Andrea Cartwright Group HR Director attended Committee meetings during the year and provided advice to Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Keith Edelman The role of secretary to the Committee was performed by the Remuneration Committee Chairman Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
A report 13 July 2016 on the Committees activities was given to the Board at each Board meeting following a meeting of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed its effectiveness against its terms of reference and the results of the annual Board evaluation, the details of which can be found on page 55.
The review concluded that the Committee was performing effectively.
