GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report The proposed changes to the policy are as follows: REMUNERATION Base salary: We plan to freeze base salaries at 2016 levels for a minimum of two further years, with no increase in 2017 and 2018.
This would mean that salaries would stay at the COMMITTEE current levels for a period of three years in total.
Bonus: We plan to increase the bonus potential to 125% for Brendan Connolly the CEO and 115% for the CFO from their current levels of Chairman 100%.
This will broadly place the executives at the median for lower half FTSE 250 Companies.
However, we will reduce the threshold payment from 20% to 0%.
This means that a more stretching level of performance will be required to achieve a REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP bonus below on-target performance.
Additionally, we will Since 1 January 2016 increase the target for the maximum level from 108% to 110% to further challenge and stretch the executive team at the top Number of end of the target range.
Appointment meetings Position Date attended Bonus deferral: We will introduce a compulsory two-year Brendan Connolly Chair March 2014 3 3 bonus deferral on the increased bonus opportunity for both the Just Jansz Independent May 2012 3 3 non-executive director CEO 20% of any bonus and CFO 13% of any bonus.
We will also implement a further shareholding based deferral of up to Caroline Johnstone Independent April 2015 3 3 non-executive director 50% of the bonus if shareholding targets have not been met after three years.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER LTIP: We will increase the potential award to 150% for the It has been a year of continued debate on remuneration, during CEOfrom 125% and 120% for the CFO from 100%.
This will which we, like many companies, have undertaken a review of our broadly place the executives at the median of lower half FTSE remuneration arrangements including a full consultation process 250 Companies.
Though this is an increase in the award level, with our largest shareholders.
Shareholders comments were it is within the current policy guidelines.
taken into account by the Committee in finalising the Policy.
Iam therefore pleased to present the Directors Remuneration We will also seek flexibility in the LTIP policy to include financial report for the financial yearended 31 December 2016 and our measures other than Relative TSR and EPS, for example a new proposed Remuneration Policy.
ROIC, but we will commit to further consult with shareholders before we make any substantive changes.
As under the current I also take this opportunity to thank the Committee and Board policy, we will not move EPS or any financial metric beyond members for their input, discussion and debate.
I specifically 50% weighting, and the 20% for Strategic Objectives will thank our shareholders and other stakeholders who provided remain.
The awards proposed for 2017 will not change and feedback during our consultation process.
willbe: 40% EPS, 40% Relative TSR and 20% Strategic.
OUR POLICY LTIP deferral: We will introduce an additional two-year Our current policy has been in force since 1 May 2014 and holding period for all vested LTIP awards granted from weare required to submit a new policy for approval at the 2017onwards.
Subject to shareholder approval, this policy will be effective from that date.
The new policy will be applied Claw back: We will include reputational damage in the claw to the salary, bonus and Performance Share Plan awards back circumstances in both LTIP and Bonus awards.
Shareholding: We will increase shareholding requirements for The Board strongly believes the new policy will strengthen the the CEO and CFO to 200% and 150% respectively from their alignment between remuneration and shareholder interests, current level of 100% each.
while providing management with an incentive to continue thestrong performance that Synthomer has delivered recently.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2016 Base salaries: these will remain unchanged for the CEO Our proposals include moderately increasing bonus and LTIP andCFO into 2017 despite an overall 2% increase within opportunities, along with freezing base salaries, increasing theGroup and as per the proposed policy.
shareholding guidelines, reducing threshold bonus pay out, Bonus plan: the three parts of the bonus plan were met widening clawback, and introducing a two-year holding period for intheir entirety in 2016 for both the CEO and CFO.
Additionally, following shareholder consultation we Financial 80%: The Adjusted PBT target was fully met.
are also introducing bonus deferral, increasing the stretchofannual Itwas a strong year, and a record for Synthomer bonus targets and further increasing shareholding guidelines.
historically, with both Europe and Asia performing well above expectations, despite the expected challenges in 56 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION the Nitrile Latex market in Asia towards the latter part of A chemical company relies on their safety, health and the year.
More detailed information on the performance environmental SHE policies and processes to avoid injuries, isavailable in the CEO and Chairmans reports.
These need to be well established and removing the foreign currency translation gains and the implemented to reduce operational risk and achieve operational profits attributable to in year M&A, the maximum target excellence.
SHE targets are reflected in the bonus plan for the of102.6m adjusted PBT was achieved with a result of executives and the Group workforce.
Safety, Health and Environmental SHE 10%: The New product development Innovation remains an two measures were achieved fully.
The executive team have importantelement of aspecialty chemical business and focused on reducing the incidence of both process theeffectiveness and revenue generated from these new environmental safety and accidents in 2016, through products is captured in the strategic elements of the LTIP numerous initiatives including training, audits and a aligning to the Group Strategy.
complete overhaul of the safety philosophy and leadership, resulting in aRecordable Injury Rate RIR of 0.21 versus a Overall, there is a strong link between the Remuneration target of 0.47, alarge drop year on year.
Process Safety structure that keeps the focus on the strategic plan to drive Rate PSR of 0.17 versus a target of 0.26 also reflects the shareholder value.
focus on environmental CSR improvement.
In both cases an excellent result.
REMUNERATION REPORT Personal strategic goals 10%: The CEO achieved all The Directors Remuneration Policy will require a binding vote three of the objectives fully.
With savings around 10m the at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Annual Report on target to control the fixed cost base was achieved against Remuneration will, as in previous years, be subject to an the Synthomer 2015 plan.
A clear integration plan and advisory vote.
We hope that we have the support of our cost synergy delivery has been achieved with PAC, and shareholders in this year of change.
lastly, through a continued upgrading of the management team, the strengthening of the succession planning pool BRENDAN CONNOLLY and the leadership team has been achieved.
Chairman 6 March 2017 The CFO achieved all three of the objectives: the first focused on M&A activity and the resulting financial integration.
With the PAC acquisition, this has been both effective and timely with no surprises.
The second was thecreation of a fit for purpose IT function, and this was achieved through the initial recruitment ofa CIO and theresulting rigour and process that was subsequently developed and is in the process of implementation.
Lastly, developing a measure of site profitability has given the executives and the Board improved information and an improved insight into the business.
LTIP: Though the LTIP awards criteria have been met infullfor EPS and Relative TSR and almost in full for the strategic goals, neither the current CEO and CFO benefit fromthis vesting as these awards were granted prior to theirappointment.
Chairmans fee: We reviewed the Chairmans fee during theyear and, in light of the increased demands of his role hisannual fee was increased from 160,000 to 170,000.
This isthe first increase since January 2014.
ALIGNMENT TO GROUP STRATEGY We continue to believe that there is a strong link and alignment between the remuneration structure and new policy and the Group Strategy of innovation, excellence and growth.
Both organic growth and M&A remain important strategic foundations for growth in Synthomer and these are reflected inthe strategic goals and the EPS growth.
Efficiencies, costreduction, fide-bottlenecking are again important in the Chemical industry and these savings and increased capacity are considered in the budget target which in turn is measured by the resulting profitability PBT in the bonus plan and ultimately the EPS growth in the LTIP.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 57 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued AT A GLANCE 2016 outcomes Base salaries in 2017 unchanged for CEO and CFO Annual bonus targets fully met Key changes proposed to be made to current remuneration policy: Element Changes to strengthen alignment with shareholders Incentivising management BASE SALARY Freeze base salaries at 2016 levels for a minimum of two years: Chief Executive Officer: 535,500 Chief Financial Officer: 334,560 BONUS Compulsory bonus deferral.
Two year deferral for any Increase maximum bonus opportunity to 125% bonus in excess of previous levels.
for the CEO and 115% for the CFO from their current Must defer 50% of bonus if shareholding levels of 100%.
requirements not met after three years.
Increase stretch of maximum bonus targets from 108% to 110% of budget PBT.
Reduce threshold bonus award from 20% to 0%.
Wider clawback circumstances to include reputational damage.
Improved disclosure of the personal and SHE objectives.
LTIP Introduce a two year holding period for all vested Within the current policy limits, increase the LTIP awards.
operational LTIP award level to 150% for the CEO Retain current policy on LTIP performance from 125% and 120% for the CFO from 100%.
measures for 2017 this will be 40% EPS, 40% relative TSR, 20% strategic objectives.
SHAREHOLDING Increase shareholding requirements from 100% of REQUIREMENTS salary to 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
Element Policy in 2016 Proposed Policy in 2017 BASE SALARY Salary levels are generally reviewed annually by Base salaries frozen at 2016 levels until at least the end theCommittee.
For 2016, executive director salaries were: Chief Executive Officer: 535,500 Chief Financial Officer: 334,560 BENEFITS Benefits to executive director may include private health No change.
insurance, life insurance and a fully expensed car.
From time to time the Committee may review the benefits provided.
The Remuneration Committee may remove benefits that executive directors receive or introduce other benefits if it considers it is appropriate to do so.
Any other benefits will be proportionate with the current benefits provided.
Where executive director are required to relocate No change.
orcomplete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional benefitsor vary benefits according to local practice.
PENSION Executive directors are eligible to participate in the No change.
Executive directors may receive payments as a cash allowance which they may use either in conjunction with that plan and or to enable them to make their own arrangements up to a maximum of 25% of base salary.
58 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Element Policy in 2016 Proposed Policy in 2017 ANNUAL BONUS Performance targets will be determined by No change.
theCommittee at the beginning of the annual performance period.
The Committee will assess performance against these No change.
targets following the end of the performance period.
The Committee may adjust awards upward or No change.
downward to reflect the overall performance of the Company or the individual.
The Committee may reduce or defer the level of No change.
payment of an award to take into account exceptional business circumstances.
The Committee may claw back awards up to three years Claw back is extended to include material after payment if the Groups accounts have been materially reputationaldamage.
misstated or there has been an error in the calculation of any performance conditions which results in over payment.
At least 70% of awards are subject to underlying profit No change.
before tax or other relevant financial measure targets.
Up to 30% of awards are subject to strategic and No change.
operational measures, including personal objectives.
The award for threshold performance is normally 20% The award for threshold performance is reduced to 0%.
The maximum opportunity is 100% of base salary.
The maximum opportunity is increased to 125% ofbasesalary for the CEO and 115% of base salary fortheCFO with compulsory deferral into shares tobeheldfortwo years in relation to the increase inbonusopportunity.
2011 Awards of shares or nil-cost options are made annually with No change.
PERFORMANCE vesting conditional on the Companys performance against SHARE PLAN long-term targets over a three year performance period.
The Committee may reduce or defer the level of vesting No change.
of an award where an event has occurred, such as a material health or safety incident Awards may give rise to dividend equivalents.
The Committee may claw back awards up to three years Claw back is extended to include material reputational after vesting if the Groups accounts have been materially damage.
misstated or there has been an error in the calculation of any performance conditions which results in overpayment.
All vested awards net of tax if applicable must be No change.
retained by executive directors until share ownership guidelines are met.
Under the plan rules approved by shareholders, the No change.
value of shares awarded to an individual in any one year may not normally exceed 150% of salary.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 59 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued Element Policy in 2016 Proposed Policy in 2017 2011 Annual awards to executive directors are: Annual awards to the executive directors are increased to: PERFORMANCE Chief Executive Officer: 125% of salary Chief Executive Officer: 150% of salary SHARE PLAN Chief Financial Officer: 100% of salary Chief Financial Officer: 120% of salary CONTINUED subject to the following performance measures: subject to the following performance measures: At least 40% based on relative TSR performance.
At least 80% based on financial measures.
This may At least 40% based on EPS growth targets.
include TSR, EPS, ROIC or any other measure considered Up to 20% based on performance measures linked to appropriate by the Committee.
Any change to the financial the delivery of the business strategy.
measures used would be subject to prior shareholder No single financial measure will constitute more than consultation.
Up to 20% based on performance measures linked tothedelivery of the business strategy.
No single measure will constitute more than 50% of anannual award.
A maximum of 25% of each element will vest for No change.
The Committee may amend the final vesting level under No change.
the TSR element if it does not consider it to be reflective of the underlying performance of the Group.
Under the plan rules approved by shareholders there is No change.
the ability to make additional awards in exceptional circumstances.
Additional awards may be made in the case of a No change.
Any such awards would be subject to additional shareholding guidelines or holding periods to be determined by the Committee.
Any additional award would be subject to the overall No change.
Any additional awards made in exceptional No change.
circumstances will be subject to performance Introduction of a two year holding period post vesting for conditions and vesting schedules as determined by the awards made in 2017 and thereafter.
Committee at the time of award.
SHAREHOLDING The executive directors are required to build unfettered The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer GUIDELINES interests in shares of at least 100% of salary.
are required to build interests in shares of at least 200% and 150% of salary respectively.
If the guidelines are not met within three years of appointment the executives would be required to use 50% of any bonus to buy shares until the guidelines are met.
60 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY PRINCIPLES The proposed Policy includes a number of changes from the The key principles for executive directors remuneration at previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM: Synthomer are as follows: Base salaries will be frozen at 2016 levels until at least the end Sufficient to attract and retain executive directors of the ability of2018.
and expertise necessary to achieve the strategic goals of The maximum bonus opportunity will be increased from 100% theCompany.
The CEOs bonus opportunity will be increased Incentivise executive directors by rewarding performance and to 125% of salary.
The CFOs opportunity will be increased to driving the right behaviours.
Align executive director reward with the experience of shareholders.
The bonus award for threshold performance will be reduced from 20% to 0% of maximum.
Bonus deferral will be introduced in respect of the increased In setting executive directors remuneration, the Committee takes bonus opportunity.
20% of the CEOs bonus and 13% of the account of pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The CFOs bonus will be deferred into shares for two years.
Committee also considers corporate governance requirements and The annual PSP awards will be increased.
The Chief Executive best practice in terms of remuneration structures and the process Officers award will be increased from 125% to 150% of salary.
The Chief Financial Officers award will be increased from 100% to 120% of salary.
The Committee reviews performance targets regularly to ensure PSP awards granted from 2017 onwards will include a two year thatthey do not encourage or motivate inappropriate risk taking.
holding period following the end of the three year performance Furthermore, the Committee, when necessary, will take into account period.
any environmental, social and governance ESG events and the The policy for financial PSP performance measures will be Audit Committees reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls simplified.
At least 80% of any award will be based on financial and risk management when assessing performance.
performance, with no single measure having a weighting of more than 50% of an annual award.
The following diagram provides an overview of the key elements of Shareholding guidelines will be increased.
The Chief Executive reward for executive directors and the performance measures used.
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer will be required to build aninterest in shares of at least 200% and 150% of salary DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY respectively.
If the guidelines are not met within three years The following sections set out our proposed new Directors ofappointment the executives would be required to defer Remuneration Policy the Policy.
This new Policy, which is 50%ofany bonus into shares until the guidelines are met.
intended to replace the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 The clawback policy for bonuses and PSP awards will AGM, is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the AGM on beextended to include material reputational damage.
27April 2017 and, if approved, will come into effect from that date.
The background to and explanation of the key changes from the current policy are given in the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee starting on page 56.
In addition a summary of these changes is set out in the At a glance tables onpages 58 to 60.
KEY ELEMENTS OF REWARD PENSION & BASE SALARY ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN BENEFITS At least 70% AT LEAST 80% Profit before tax Based on financial measures Up to 30% UP TO 20% Strategic and operational objectives Strategic measures 2017 awards: 2017 awards: 80% Profit before tax 40% Relative TSR 10% Health & Safety 40% EPS growth 10% Individual strategic and operationalgoals 20% Strategic measures Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 61 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued FUTURE POLICY TABLE Element Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link tostrategy BASE SALARY Supports the Salary levels are generally There is no overall maximum for None, although individual recruitment reviewed annually by the salary opportunity or increases.
Salary increases will normally performance are factors ofexecutive be in-line with theincreases taken into account when When reviewing salary levels the Directors.
awarded toother employees considering salary Committee takes into account: withinthe Group.
increases Reflects the the individuals skills, individuals skills, Larger increases may bemade experience and performance: experience, under certain circumstances, the size and scope of the performance including, but not limited to: individuals responsibilities: and role within pay and conditions elsewhere an increase in the scope the Company.
inthe Group: and or responsibility of the pay at companies of similar individuals role: size: and the development of the the complexity and individual within the role: international scope of alignment to market levels: theGroup.
and corporate events such as asignificant acquisition or Group restructuring which impact the scope of the role.
For 2017, executive director salaries are: C G MacLean: 535,500 S G Bennett: 334,560 and will be frozen at this level until at least the end of 2018.
BENEFITS Provided to Benefits to executive directors There is no overall maximum None support the may include private health forbenefits, as thecost of retention and insurance, lifeinsurance and insurance benefits may vary recruitment afully expensed caror car from year-to-year depending ofexecutive allowance.
From time totime onthe individual circumstances Directors.
theCommittee mayreview and the level of any relocation thebenefits provided.
The benefits, allowances and Committee may remove benefits expenses will depend on that executive directors receive thespecific circumstances.
or introduce other benefits if it considers it is appropriate to do so.
Where executive directors are requiredto relocate or complete aninternational assignment, the Committee may offer additional benefits or vary benefits according to local practice.
Executive directors may participate in any all-employee share schemes or other benefit arrangements on the same basis as other employees.
62 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Element Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link tostrategy ANNUAL BONUS Incentivises Performance targets will be The maximum opportunity is up At least 70% of awards thedelivery of determined by theCommittee to 125% of salary.
aresubject to underlying financial, atthebeginning of the annual profit before tax or Opportunities for current strategic and performance period.
otherrelevant financial executive directors are: operational measure targets.
The Committee will assess objectives C G MacLean: 125% of salary performance against these Up to 30% of awards are selected to S G Bennett: 115% of salary targetsfollowing the end of subject to strategic and support our theperformance period.
operational measures, business including personal strategy within The Committee may adjust objectives.
awardsupward or downward to reflect the overall performance For 2017 awards, oftheCompany or the individual.
performance measures willbe 80% profit before The Committee may reduce tax, 10% health and safety ordefer the level of payment objectives, 10% personal ofan award to take into strategic and operational accountexceptional business objectives.
The award for threshold A proportion of any bonus performance is normally earned is deferred for two years.
For current executive directors this is 20% and 13% of any bonus for C G MacLean and SGBennett respectively.
The Committee may claw back awards up to three years after payment if the Groups accounts have been materially misstated, there has been an error in the calculation of any performance conditions which results in overpayment or if there are circumstances giving rise to material reputational damage tothe Group.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 63 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued Element Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures link tostrategy 2011 Incentivises The vesting of awards is conditional Under the plan rulesapproved At least 80% based on PERFORMANCE executive on the Companys performance by shareholders, the value financial measures.
This SHAREPLAN directors to against long-term targets over ofshares awarded to an may include TSR, EPS, Approved by deliversustained performance period of at least individual in respect of any one ROIC or any other shareholders at performance threeyears.
year may not normally exceed measure considered the 2011 EGM andsustainable 150% ofsalary.
appropriate by the The Committee may reduce or returns for Committee.
Any change defer the level of vesting of an Annual awards to current shareholders over to the financial award where an event has executive directors are: the longer term.
measures used would occurred, such as a material be subject toprior C G MacLean: 150% of salary healthor safety incident.
shareholder S G Bennett: 120% of salary consultation.
The Committee may claw back Under the plan rules approved Up to 20% based on awards up to three years after by shareholders there is the performance measures vesting if the Groups accounts ability to make additional linked to the delivery of have been materially misstated, awards in exceptional the business strategy.
there has been an error in the circumstances.
No single measure will calculation of any performance constitute more than conditions which results in Additional awards may bemade 50% of an annual award overpayment or for awards from in the case of atransformative 2017 onwards if there are Company event.
Any such circumstances giving rise to For 2017 awards, awards would be subject material reputational damage performance measures will toadditional shareholding totheGroup.
40% guidelines or holding periods EPS and 20% strategic tobe determined by the Vested awards relating to grants measures.
made from 2017 onwards are subject to a holding period post A maximum of 25% of Any additional award would be vesting of an additional two years.
each element will vest for subject to the overall plan limit threshold performance.
The Committee may amend the final vesting level under the TSR element if it does not consider it to be reflective of the underlying performance of the Group.
Any additional awards made in exceptional circumstances will be subject to performance conditions and vesting schedules as determined by the Committee at the time of award.
PENSION Provide a Executive directors are eligible to Maximum of 25% of base None competitive level participate intheGroup personal salary.
benefits to Allowances for current executive Executive directors may receive support both directors are: payments as a cash allowance retention and which they may use either in C G MacLean: 25% of salary recruitment of conjunction with that plan and or S G Bennett: 20% of salary executive to enable them to make their own directors.
SHAREHOLDING The Company operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors to strengthen the alignment between GUIDELINES theinterests of the executive directors and the shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are required to build interests in shares of at least 200% and 150% of salary respectively.
Allvested awards under the 2011 Performance Share Plan net of tax if applicable must be retained by executivedirectors until this requirement is met.
If the requirement is not met within three years of appointment theexecutive directors would be required to defer 50% of any bonus to buy shares until the guidelines are met.
64 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Provisions to withhold or recover sums paid under incentives are as detailed in the table above.
No other elements of remuneration are subject to recovery provisions.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where theterms of the payment were agreed i before 27 April 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Awards granted under the PSP may: a be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economiceffect: b have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would fair, reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy: c incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vest up to the time of vesting or where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: d be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and e be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may materially affect the Companys share price.
Deferred bonus shares may be structured as conditional share awards, nil-cost options or the delivery of shares subject to sale restrictions.
In each case, the parameters of the PSP set out above will apply where applicable, save that shares subject to sales restrictions will receive dividends rather than dividend equivalents.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS Annual bonus The annual bonus performance measures are chosen to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising executive directors to meet financial targets for the year and to deliver specific strategic and operational goals.
This balance allows the Committee to effectively reward performance against the key elements of our strategy.
The bonus targets are set by the Committee each year to ensure that executive directors are appropriately focused on the key objectives forthe next 12 months.
Targets are set by reference to the Companys business plan.
Performance Share Plan The performance measures under the PSP are set to align with the long-term strategy of the Company and long-term value creation for shareholders.
Measures for 2017 awards include: EPS growth reflects the financial performance of the Company.
The Committee sets targets to be appropriately stretching, with regard to a number of internal and external reference points.
Relative TSR Total Shareholder Return TSR reflects the Companys ultimate delivery of value to shareholders.
The Committee considers that this promotes alignment between the interests of executive directors and the shareholder experience.
Strategic measures This element directly incentivises management to deliver the Companys key strategic priorities.
The Committee considers that this performance framework represents an appropriate and balanced basis on which to measure the performance of the Company.
DIFFERENCE IN POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed in accordance with the same principles that underpin remuneration for thewider employee population.
The wider employee group also participate in performance-based incentives.
Throughout the Group, base salary and benefit levels are set in accordance with the prevailing market conditions.
Differences between executive director pay policy andother employee pay reflect the seniority of the individuals, the prevailing market conditions and the corporate governance practices forexecutive director remuneration.
The key difference in policy is that for executive Directors a greater proportion of total remuneration isbased on incentives.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 65 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES NON-EXECUTIVE The Board reviews non-executive director fees annually.
When reviewing fee levels the Board may consider the DIRECTOR FEES scope and time commitment of the role, the skills and experience of the individual, and fee levels at other companies.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the determination of their own fees.
Non-executives are paid differential fee levels based on their membership of Board committees, chairmanship of Board committees or role as Senior Independent Director and the time commitment required from them.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
CHAIRMAN FEES The Committee reviews Chairman fees annually.
When reviewing fee levels they may consider the scope and time commitment of the role, the skills and experience of the individual, and fee levels at other companies.
The Chairman does not participate in the determination of the fee level.
Expenses incurred in the performance of duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
Total fees to non-executive directors, including the Chairman, operate within the cap defined in the Articles of Association currently 750,000 per annum.
RECRUITMENT POLICY Executive directors The Committee would have regard to the following principles when agreeing the components of a remuneration package upon the recruitment of a new executive director: Base salary will be set taking into account the principles set out in the policy table and may be set at a level higher or lower than the previous incumbent.
The Committee may, on appointing an executive director, need to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Any buyout would take into account the terms of the arrangements e. g. form of award, performance conditions, timeframe being forfeited in the previous package.
The form of any award would be determined at the time and the Committee may if necessary make use of LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for the purpose of buyout awards only.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buy-out awards will, in the opinion of the Committee, be no more valuable than the entitlement which has been forfeited.
Annual bonus opportunity will be no more than the maximum set out in the policy table.
The Committee may determine that for the firstyear of appointment the annual bonus award will be subject to such conditions as it may determine.
PSP opportunity will be no more than the plan rules maximum set out in the policy table.
The exceptional maximum may be used for thepurpose of recruitment.
The maximum variable pay opportunity on recruitment excluding buyouts is 425% of salary, consistent with the maximums in the policytable above.
Other For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than salary for example a non-executive director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis.
Where an executive is appointed from within the Company, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions and that they would be appointed on a new service contract.
Similarly, if an executive director is appointed following the acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Non-executive directors and Chairman In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive director or Chairman, remuneration arrangements will be in line with the principles detailed in the relevant table above.
SERVICE CONTRACTS The current contracts in place for executive directors are as follows: Director Date of contract C G MacLean 17 November 2014 S G Bennett 31 March 2015 There is no unexpired term as each of the executive directors contracts is on a rolling basis.
Save in circumstances justifying summary termination the notice period for each of the above contracts is one year.
Service contracts for new executive directors will be limited to 12 months notice.
The Company may at the Committees discretion make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the salary, pension contributions and contractual benefits that would have been paid during the notice period.
This payment may be made at the Committees discretion as alump sum or monthly instalments and may be subject to mitigation if the director finds an alternative position during the notice period.
66 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The executive directors are also entitled to 25 working days holiday plus public holidays per calendar year.
All non-executive directors are appointed in writing.
Letters of appointment do not include entitlement to participation in the Companys share incentive plans or any other of its employee benefits, and do not currently have a notice period.
The Company may add a notice period of no more than three months.
The non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election.
There is no right to compensation for lossof office if they are not re-elected or if the Company terminates the appointment because the non-executive director has accepted aposition with another company without prior board approval and which the Board reasonably considers likely to give rise to a material conflict.
The periods of appointment and the requirements for re-election of non-executive directors are provided within the Board Membership and Balance section of the Corporate Governance report on page 50.
Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for an executive Director.
Where either party gives notice of the termination of an executive directors employment, the Committee may make a payment in lieu of notice for the outstanding period as described above.
Other than this provision, the obligation to pay accrued but untaken holiday and as outlined below regarding bonus and the Performance Share Plan, service contracts make no provision for pre-defined compensation on termination.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the directors legal or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
The Committee may award an annual bonus for leavers taking into account the circumstances of departure.
Any bonus would normally be subject to performance and time pro-rating and would not be made in circumstances of poor performance.
Any such bonus would be in such proportions of cash and shares and subject to such deferral arrangements as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstance.
On cessation of employment the executive director will retain any deferred bonus shares and the deferred period will normally continue tothe original release date.
The treatment of outstanding PSP awards is governed by the 2011 Performance Share Plan rules under which executive directors may currently hold awards in the form of share options or conditional rights to receive shares.
Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for good leaver Treatment for other leaver 2011 Death Awards will vest subject to the Unvested awards lapse in full Performance Injury, ill-health or disability achievement of performance Share Plan Transfer of employing company conditions and unless the Committee orbusiness outside the Group determines otherwise will be time Retirement with agreement pro-rated to reflect the proportion of oftheCommittee the vesting period that has passed Redundancy atthe time of leaving.
Any other reason as determined The vesting date for such awards will bytheCommittee normally be the original vesting date, although the Committee may determine that awards can vest upon the cessation of employment subject to the assessment of any performance condition.
Where unvested awards are subject to an additional holding period, the Committee will determine the extent to which the holding period applies following cessation.
Awards in the form of options that vest early due to cessation of employment may be exercisable until the earlier of i 12 months from the date of vesting, and ii the normal expiry of the exercise period.
Following this date unexercised awards will lapse.
If the participant ceases employment after the normal vesting date, options may be exercisable until the earlier of 12 months from the date of cessation, or the normal expiry of the exercise period.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 67 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued If an individual leaves holding vested PSP awards which are still subject to a holding period, the underlying shares will either be released at the end of the original holding period, or at an earlier date determined by the Committee.
Where an award is made for the purpose of recruitment for example a buyout award then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award having regard to the circumstances of the recruitment, the terms of awards being bought out and the principles for leavers in the current policy.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, unvested PSP awards will normally vest early and deferred bonus shares will normally be released.
The extent to which unvested PSP awards vest will be subject to achievement of the performance conditions as determined by the Committee at the time of the change of control and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, will be time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed at that time.
In the event of an internal reorganisation the Committee may determine that awards are automatically surrendered for a new award which the Committee determines is equivalent to the surrendered award including as to any performance condition except that it shall be over shares in the acquiring company or some other company.
In the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which, in the opinion of the Committee, would materially affect the market price of shares, the Committee may allow PSP awards to vest or deferred bonus shares to be released on the same basis as for a change ofcontrol.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The following charts illustrate the different elements of the executive directors remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
The assumptions used are provided below the charts.
The illustrations are based on annual bonus awards for 2017 and Performance Share Plan awards to be made in 2017.
C G MACLEAN S G BENNETT 2,500,000 1,500,000 2.16m 1.21m 2,000,000 1,200,000 37% 33% 1,500,000 900,000 1.29m 0.75m 16% 16% 31% 32% 1,000,000 600,000 31% 31% 0.42m 0.68m 500,000 300,000 100% 53% 32% 100% 56% 35% 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan Component Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Base salary Base salary for 2017 Pension Value of cash supplement for 2017 Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided in 2016 Variable Annual bonus 0% of maximum 60% of maximum C G MacLean 125% of salary S G Bennett 115% of salary 1 2011 Performance Share Plan 0% vesting 25% vesting C G MacLean 150% of salary S G Bennett 120% of salary Note: 1.
The value for the Performance Share Plan is based on the face value of annual PSP awards under the forward looking policy and base salaries for 2017.
Thecalculation excludes share price growth or dividends during the performance period.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY When setting the policy for the remuneration of the executive directors, the Committee has regard to the pay and employment  within the Group.
The Committee considers salary increases within the business but does not formally .
The Committee does not consult directly with employees when formulating the Policy for executive directors.
68 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the remuneration policy during 2016.
The Committee consulted with its largest shareholders as part of this process, and shareholders comments were taken into account by the Committee in finalising the Policy.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 Operation of the executive director Remuneration Policy for 2017 The current Policy has been in force since 1 May 2014.
Subject to approval of the new policy by shareholders at the AGM on 27 April 2017, the specific remuneration arrangements for 2017 are described below.
BASE SALARY There were no salary increases awarded for 2017 and accordingly salaries remain at 2016 levels as follows: C G MacLean: 535,500.
Executives receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions, a fully expensed car or car BENEFITS allowance and private health insurance.
2017 cash allowances in lieu of pension contributions: C G MacLean: 25% of salary S G Bennett: 20% of salary ANNUAL BONUS For 2017, performance under the annual bonus will be measured on the following basis: 80% subject to performance against underlying profit before tax targets.
10% subject to performance measures against key health and safety targets.
10% subject to performance against individual strategic and operational goals.
Targets and objectives for 2017 are, by their financial and commercial nature, considered by the Board to be unsuitable for disclosure in advance.
However, the Committee will provide information on targets and objectives retrospectively.
2017 maximum award opportunity: C G MacLean: 125% of salary S G Bennett: 115% of salary PERFORMANCE For awards made in 2017, performance will be measured on the same basis as for awards made in 2016 other SHARE PLAN than in relation to the business strategy target as follows: 40% based on relative TSR performance versus FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and financial services companies: 25% of this element will vest for median performance.
100% vesting for upper quartile performance.
Vesting on a straight-line basis between these points.
40% based on underlying EPS growth: 25% of this element will vest for EPS growth of 4.5% per annum.
100% vesting for EPS growth of 10% per annum.
This target range was set following consideration of the long-term strategy and the outlook for the markets inwhich we operate.
20% based on performance against two equally weighted measures directly linked to the delivery of the businessstrategy: Proportion of sales from new products, measured over the five years to the end of the performance period incentivising greater innovation through new product development.
Cumulative underlying profit before tax growth in respect of acquisitions in line with the strategic plan as approved by the Board incentivising the delivery of profitable growth.
For each of these measures, 25% will vest for threshold performance.
The targets for these measures, and the level of performance achieved, will be disclosed following the end of the performance period.
2017 maximum award opportunity: C G MacLean: 150% of salary S G Bennett: 120% of salary SHAREHOLDING The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are required to build interests in shares ofat least GUIDELINES 200% and 150% of salary respectively.
The Committee will keep the level under review.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 69 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued The following information is audited: SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Base Annual Long-term 1 2 salary Benefits bonus incentives Pension Total Year Executive directors C G MacLean 2016 535,500 13,200 535,500 133,875 1,218,075 2015 500,943 135,845 484,412 125,234 1,246,434 S G Bennett 2016 334,560 21,125 334,560 67,360 757,605 2015 223,594 93,717 216,214 321,100 44,719 899,344 Notes 1.
This is the total taxable value of benefits received by each Director during 2016.
The table below provides details of the main component of the relevant benefits paid to executive directors.
For 2015 the value includes the buyout award made following the appointment of Mr Bennett as detailed on page 73.
Car expenses benefit Others Total C G MacLean 13,200 13,200 S G Bennett 20,118 1,007 21,125 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION Base salary The base salary levels for 2017 have been frozen at those effective 1 January 2016 and are set out below.
Executive directors 2016 base salary 2017 base salary % change C G MacLean 535,500 535,500 0% S G Bennett 334,560 334,560 0% Annual bonus 2016 award For 2016 the Company operated a cash bonus plan for the executive directors related to the achievement of profit before tax targets, health and safety targets and individual strategic and operational goals.
The achievement of the profit before tax target represented up to 80% of the maximum bonus opportunity achievable of 100% of annual basic salary.
The health and safety targets were given a 10% weighting of the maximum achievable with the balance of 10% relating to individual strategic and operational goals.
Overall bonuses for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Maximum bonus as a Total bonus as a Total bonus Executive directors % of salary % of maximum C G MacLean 100 100 535,500 S G Bennett 100 100 334,560 Further information of the three elements of the bonus are as follows: 1.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 80% The profit before tax targets set and achievement are set out below: 2 Threshold Target Maximum Achieved Level of award % of element 20% 60% 100% 100% 1 Profit before tax 90.25m 95.00m 102.60m 106.60m Notes 1.
Targets are set by reference to the Board approved internal budget for the Group and measured on a constant currency basis.
For the purposes of calculating Achieved Profit Before Tax the contribution from the acquisition of PAC was deducted from 2016 underlying profit before tax and interest relating to monies borrowed to fund that acquisition were added back and the disposal of Synthomer South Africa was annualised.
Further details of this achievement are given in the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on page 56.
70 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
HEALTH & SAFETY 10% Targets with an aggregate weighting of 10% related to improvements in personal and process safety.
A PERSONAL SAFETY Target recordable injury rate Recordable injury rate achieved 0.47 or less 0.21 Level of award: 0% for a rate above 0.47: 5% for a rate equal to or less than 0.47.
B PROCESS SAFETY Target process safety incident rate Process safety incident rate achieved 0.26 or less 0.17 Level of award: 0% for a rate above 0.26: 5% for a rate equal to or less than 0.26.
As a result of out-performance against both measures the maximum award of 10% was achieved.
Further details of the definition and measurement of the recordable injury rate and the process safety incident rate are given on page 24.
INDIVIDUAL STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL GOALS 10% Individual goals and achievements against them considered by the Remuneration Committee with an aggregate weighting of 10% included: C G MacLean achievement of cost control targets, completion of Synthomer 2015 programme at the end of 2016. delivery of synergy benefits from acquisitions, integration of, and cost savings from, the PAC acquisition on track.
development of succession planning for leadership roles, management team upgraded and succession pool strengthened.
The maximum opportunity was awarded.
S G Bennett performance relating to merger and acquisition activity, successful financial integration of the PAC acquisition.
development of Group IT function, CIO recruited and work programme in the course of implementation.
enhancement of aspects of financial reporting, development of profitability by site measure.
Further details of performance against these goals is given in the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on page 56.
2011 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN 2016 award The awards made on 8 April 2016 to C G MacLean and S G Bennett were as follows: Percentage vesting at Performance Number of threshold period Executive Directors Scheme Basis of award shares Face value performance end date C G MacLean 2011 PSP nil-cost options 125% of salary 182,416 669,375 25% 31 12 2018 S G Bennett 2011 PSP nil-cost options 100% of salary 91,173 334,560 25% 31 12 2018 The face value of the awards was calculated using a share price of 366.95 pence per share, the average share price on the four dealing days prior to the date of grant.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 71 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration report continued The awards made on 8 April 2016 under the 2011 PSP are subject to the following performance conditions: Relative total shareholder return condition EPS condition Company relative TSR performance againstthe FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and financial services companies over three year period ending 31December 2018 EPS for the 2018 financial year Percentage of award that will vest Upper quartile 28.6 pence or more 40% On a straight-line basis between 10% and Between median and upper quartile Between 24.5 pence and 28.6 pence 40% Median 24.5 pence 10% Below median Less than 24.5 pence 0% A further 20% of the award is subject to strategic measures as referred to on page 60, the targets for which will be disclosed following the end of the performance period.
PENSION ENTITLEMENTS Both executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
No additional benefit is receivable in the event of a director retiring early.
Cash allowance % salary C G MacLean 25 S G Bennett 20 SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committee membership Committee Non-executive directors Base fee fee chair fee Total N A Johnson 2016 160,000 160,000 2015 160,000 160,000 The Hon.
Base fee includes an amount of 5,000 per annum for role as Senior Independent Director from 1 May 2015.
Appointed to the Board on 20 March 2015.
The fees of the non-executive directors and the Chairman were reviewed in 2016 and as a result of which the Chairmans annual fee wasincreased by 10,000 to 170,000 and the annual committee membership fee of 5,000 was increased to 10,000 for Mr Connolly, DrJansz and Mrs Johnstone, all with effect from 1 January 2017.
The fee increases reflected the increased demands of these roles.
72 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS NUMBER OF SHARES OPTIONS Total Vested unfettered Interests in unexercised interests in Unvested Share Interests Company performance shares and performance options Share in shares at shares related options vested options related options exercised ownership 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December during requirements 2016 1 2 Directors 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 % of salary % of salary C G MacLean 218,161 0 218,161 414,142 0 100% 129% S G Bennett 0 0 0 159,656 0 100% 0% The Hon.
A G Catto 1,492,392 7,647,500 J Chen B W D Connolly 2,200 Dato Lee Hau Hian 44,763 Dr J J C Jansz 10,000 N A Johnson 100,000 C A Johnstone 0 Notes Non-beneficial interest.
Unvested performance related options comprise the awards made under the 2011 PSP in 2015 and 2016.
Details of the performance conditions attaching to the 2016 awards are set out on page 70.
As disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report, in addition to his performance related award S G Bennett was granted a buyout award of 100,000 shares in 2015 which will vest subject to continued employment until 31 December 2017.
As at 31 December 2016 executive directors are required to hold 100% of their annual salary in the Companys shares.
Until this requirement is met no sales of shares that vest under long-term incentive plans are permitted other than to satisfy tax liabilities that arise on the exercise of share awards under such plans.
The Committee considers that unfettered unexercised vested nil-cost awards are economically equivalent to shares and as such that they should count on a net of tax basis toward compliance with the 100% salary guideline.
As noted on page 69 it is intended to increase the shareholdings required to be held by the executive directors following the approval of the Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
The performance conditions attaching to the 2011 PSP awards granted in 2015 are as follows: Relative total shareholder return condition EPS condition Company relative TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index EPS for the 2017 financial year Percentage of award that vests excluding investment trusts and financial services companies overthree year period ending 31 December 2017 Upper quartile 25.95 pence or more 40% Between median and upper quartile Between 22.25 pence and On a straight-line basis between 25.95pence 10% and 40% Median 22.25 pence 10% Below median Less than 22.25 pence 0% A further 20% of the award is subject to strategic measures as referred to on page 69 the targets for which will be disclosed following the end of the performance period.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS No payments were made to past directors.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE No payments for loss office were made during the year.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 73 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued The following information is unaudited: PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The graph and the table below allow comparison of the total shareholder return of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer remuneration outcomes over the last eight years.
1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Synthomer plc FTSE 250 excluding investment and financial services companies The graph above compares the total shareholder return performance of the Company with that of the FTSE 250 which is considered to be the most appropriate index against which to make a comparison.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CEO total single figure ofremuneration 000 786 1,484 3,934 1,487 923 967 1,246 1,218 Bonus % of maximum awarded 100 100 100 27 0 57.3 96.7 100 LTI % of maximum vesting 0 100 100 100 50 0 n a n a The CEO total single figure of remuneration includes salary, benefits and pension contributions paid in the year together with bonuses and long-term incentive awards which vested based on performance in the year.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF DIRECTOR UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMPARED WITH UK GROUP EMPLOYEES The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and that of the employees of the Groups main UK trading subsidiary.
Total employee pay is based on the total salary, benefits and bonuses for employees of that company comprising some 335 employees.
The directors consider that this employee population is the most relevant for comparison purposes taking into account geographical location and remuneration structure.
Salary % increase Taxable benefits % increase Annual bonus % increase C G MacLean 2 90.3 10.5 Total employee pay, benefits and bonuses 3.3 25.6 9.6 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The 2015 dividend includes a special dividend of 7.8p per share equating to 26.5m.
Excluding this special dividend, dividends to shareholders increased by 11.4%.
Total employee remuneration in 2016 is impacted by the depreciation in sterling relative to 2015, and the remuneration of the PAC employees from 1 July 2016.
The table below shows the relative importance of the Groups all employee remuneration expense compared with returns to shareholders by way of dividends.
The 2015 dividend includes a special dividend of 7.8p per share equalling 26.5m.
Excluding this special dividend, dividends to shareholders increased by 15.6%.
Total employee remuneration in 2016 is impacted by the depreciation in sterling relative to 2015 and the remuneration of the PAC employees from 1 July 2016.
74 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Dividends are the dividends paid in the year.
Total employment remuneration is the consolidated salary cost for all Group employees.
2016 2015 Emoluments 000 000 The total amounts for Directors remuneration and other benefits were: Emoluments 2,204 2,351 Note Emoluments are recognised on a pro-rata basis for the period they were Directors.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board provided that there is no adverse impact to their role and duties to the Company.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the executive directors where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Neither Mr MacLean nor Mr Bennett currently hold any external appointments.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Remuneration Committee membership since 1 January 2016: Brendan Connolly Chairman Just Jansz Caroline Johnstone Attendance at Committee meetings is set out on page 50.
KEY DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee is responsible for determining, in agreement with the Board, the Companys policy on executive remuneration and the specific remuneration for the Chairman and each of the executive directors, including pension rights, within the terms of the agreed policy.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the remuneration of senior executives throughout the Group.
ADVISERS The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and the Group HR Director are invited to attend Committee meetings to contribute to the Committee in its deliberations.
However, no individual is involved in discussions, or is part of any decisions, relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee received independent advice from Deloitte LLP Deloitte who were appointed as the Committees independent remuneration advisers in April 2013.
During the year, Deloitte provided advice on the proposed new remuneration policy, governance and market trends and other remuneration matters that materially assisted the Committee.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of this work were charged on a time and expenses basis and totalled 27,550 for advice in 2016.
Deloitte also provided tax services to the Company in the year.
The Committee was satisfied that this did not compromise the independence of the advice received.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, and adheres to its code of conduct.
Deloitte was appointed directly by the Committee, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors remuneration report in 2016.
Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Member Number % of vote Number % of vote Number 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 266,192,043 99 1,495,056 1 2,818,002 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy 231,338,319 93 17,333,766 7 4,858,658 By order of the Board R ATKINSON Company Secretary 6 March 2017 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 75
