Governance Directors Remuneration Report Dear shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31March 2016.
This introduction provides context for the Committees decisionmaking during the year, and summarises key points from the Report, including those relating to performance and incentive plan outcomes, and Committee activities.
Business performance context We made good progress this year with solid financial performance and strong project delivery.
We generated improved earnings, despite some very challenging market conditions: and successfully executed the major structural change initiatives needed to strengthen the business and increase our focus on Speciality Food Ingredients SFI.
Incentive outcomes reflect shortand long-term performance and resulted in total executive remuneration less than 80% of target levels, which the Committee considers to be consistent with the underlying financial health and performance of the business.
Some of the key financial highlights include: Anne Minto, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Group adjusted profit before tax increased by 5% SFI adjusted operating profit increased by 10% New Products sales increased by 34% in constant currency 2016 REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE Overview of our remuneration framework Performance highlights and 1 incentive outcomes Component of Key features remuneration Annual bonus Target Actual Achieved Base salary and Market competitive elements to attract % of employment benefits the right calibre of executives Metric target including health cover, car and defined Group adjusted profit 200.1m 209.6m 9.5m contribution retirement benefits before tax PBTEA 4.7% Annual bonus Rewards achievement against annual Net sales less cost of 1 352.9m 1 326.2m -26.7m Group financial performance objectives: raw materials -2.0% performance: Max cash bonus is 100% of salary Profit Max opportunity is 175% of salary Operating cash flow 63.2m 86.0m 22.8m Sales Any award over 100% is paid in 36.1% Cash flow shares, deferred for two years CFO target: 50% of salary Bonus award to Chief Executive: 77% of maximum CEO target: 75% of salary Bonus award to Chief Financial Officer: 77% of maximum Performance Supports the Groups strategic aims to See page 72 for more detail.
Share Plan: create shareholder value from efficient EPS 50% profitable growth and to motivate and Performance Targets Actual ROCE 50% retain senior talent: Share Plan threshold-stretch 2013-2016 Max award is 300% of salary 2013 Award 15% vesting at threshold EPS 50% 6% 15% compound annual -10.5% below growth over three years threshold Shareholding Chief Executive 4x salary requirements Chief Financial Officer 3x salary ROCE 50% 12.6% 15.6% at the end of 12.8% above the performance period threshold Claw back and malus Apply for two years after the provisions determination of a bonus or vesting 10.9% of the award made in 2013 will vest, based on the of PSP awards combination of EPS and ROCE performance See page 73 for more detail.
Safety and broader corporate responsibility matters are specifically factored into the Committees decisions on pay and annual incentive plan outcomes.
1 Targets for these awards were established and performance is assessed under proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, adjusted to reflect the impact of the disposal of joint-venture business during the period to enable a like-for-like assessment of performance.
Annual Bonus targets are at budgeted exchange rates.
Annual Bonus targets for the financial year ending 31 March 2017, and Performance Share Plan targets for awards made in 2016 have been established under equity accounting for joint ventures, consistent with the changes to our financial reporting made during the year.
62 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating profit increased by 1% with The combination of successful completion of these major strong core business growth offsetting significant Commodities structural change projects, and a solid financial performance for weakness 29 million headwind the year ending 31 March 2016 including a 34% increase in New Adjusted diluted earnings per share on continuing operations Products sales, means the business is stronger, and has helped increased by 8% 2.5p us to make early progress against our 2020 Ambition.
Net debt reduced by 121 million to 434 million, consistent Incentive outcomes for the year with strong cash flow performance.
As set out in this Report, headline incentive outcomes for the year 1 At the same time, we successfully delivered our major structural were as follows : change initiatives, significantly strengthening the business in Annual bonus plan: Awards for the year at 77% of maximum support of our 2020 Ambition: reflect solid financial performance, with profit and cash The SPLENDA Sucralose business was re-structured and performance ahead of stretching targets set at the start of the re-positioned as a more focused, low-cost and sustainable year, in the context of challenging market conditions: alongside business.
This was delivered by implementing a rigorous successful delivery of complex structural change projects value-based approach to securing volume, and by consolidating which bring greater focus to our SFI business, in pursuit of our manufacturing into a single facility in McIntosh, Alabama, and 2020 Ambition.
closing the Singapore facility completed on 31 March 2016 Performance Share Plan PSP : Awards made in 2013 reached The re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture across the end of their three-year performance period.
Our adjusted multiple countries in Europe was completed, increasing our return on capital employed in the year to 31 March 2016 focus on SFI and reducing our exposure to more regulated exceeded the threshold vesting requirement and is in excess commodity markets in Europe of our cost of capital.
EPS targets for the three-year period have Capacity expansion projects for SFI were completed not been achieved.
Accordingly, a vesting level of 10.9% of as planned.
Total remuneration outcomes are below target: On the basis These large and complex projects have been delivered safely, of these variable pay outcomes, total actual remuneration for to the planned timetable, and with exceptional cash costs from the year for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer will projects being lower than planned.
be less than 80% of target levels as illustrated in the We also continued to strengthen business processes and Application of remuneration policy charts below.
disciplines across the Group, particularly in our supply chain.
Proposed changes for the year ahead Application of remuneration policy The charts below illustrate the value that may be delivered Our remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM with 97.87% of votes in favour.
We have made no changes to our under different performance scenarios and the value actually delivered, for the year ended 31 March 2016. remuneration policy during the year or for the year ahead.
Changes to the Performance Share Plan We are proposing changes to the metrics and targets from 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE Total so that these awards are better aligned with the Groups Stretch 22% 29% 49% 4 421 strategy and our long-term goals.
Target 36% 19% 45% 2 781 In summary, metrics for the 2017 financial year are proposed as: Threshold 75% 25% 1 321 SFI profit growth Consistent with the SFI growth-led 25% business strategy and investment case 100% 996 Group profit growth Key performance metric to drive 25% sustainable long-term profitable growth 47% 45% 8% 2 139 Group Return on Drives efficient investment to generate 0 1m 2m 3m 4m 5m Capital Employed value-added returns for the future ROCE 50% Actual remuneration in the year is 23% below target.
The target ranges associated with these metrics are described in more detail on page 75.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Total Alongside these changes, we propose to introduce: Stretch 21% 29% 50% 2 989 A new post-vesting holding period so awards to executive Target 37% 14% 49% 1 739 directors will have a five-year horizon An additional dividend underpin, recognising the importance Threshold 74% 26% 861 of the dividend to investors.
100% 638 These changes are being made within our existing remuneration policy, and have been subject to a detailed 2 Actual 49% 51% 1 296 consultation with a broad group of our largest shareholders.
0 1m 2m 3m 4m 5m Base and benefits Annual bonus Performance Share Plan 2 Does not include the value from the compensatory share award made on employment see page 76.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 63 B elow thres hold Actual Below threshold Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Key Committee activities during the year Shareholder consultation regarding 2016 PSP awards In addition to the responsibilities of the Committee which are In keeping with our existing shareholder-approved remuneration described in summary on page 69, the Committee spent policy, we are proposing changes to metrics for our PSP significant time on the following key matters during the year: programme for 2016, so that these awards are better aligned with strategy and priorities in the business, and our longer term Reviewing the effectiveness of remuneration arrangements: outlook set out in the 2020 Ambition described on page 8.
Continuing the work referenced in my introductory statement last year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of current In summary, we propose to: remuneration arrangements.
Retain the existing ROCE metric to incentivise efficient Review of the Annual Bonus Plan: investment for the future We made changes to ensure stronger links between our annual Replace the current EPS metric with the combination of a Group planning process and the establishment of bonus targets: and profit metric to drive sustainable long-term profitable growth, adopted a simpler operating cash flow metric that will have a and introduce an element directly related to SFI profit growth, greater impact on promoting effective cash management in in support of our strategy and 2020 Ambition that SFI generates the business.
c. 70% of Group profit by 2020. Review of the Performance Share Plan PSP : We anticipated the need for a review of the PSP in the 2015 Alongside these changes we propose to introduce a new postAnnual Report, driven by a number of factors including the vesting holding period so awards to executive directors will have very significant changes in the business since 2010, when the a five-year horizon: and awards will be subject to an additional current metrics were originally adopted.
The proposals dividend underpin, recognising the importance of the dividend discussed on pages 74 and 75 have been carefully developed to investors.
and align with our strategic priorities to deliver long-term value The Committee has considered these changes carefully and by growing the total value of the Group, focusing on above believes that they are necessary and appropriate, in the context of market growth in our higher value SFI business, and the changes in the business since the PSP was originally adopted, maintaining a strong balance sheet.
and the ambition we have for the business.
We have consulted with Shareholder engagement activity following the 2015 AGM: a significant number of our largest shareholders in relation to these The particular actions we have taken during the year are proposals, and are pleased to note that the proposals have met with discussed below.
As Chairman of the Committee I would like to high levels of stated support during that consultation process.
thank our shareholders for both their engagement with us and their support during the year.
These specific proposals are described in more detail on pages 74 and 75.
In January 2016, I led the annual review of the Committees effectiveness.
The review concluded that the Committee Remuneration Report and implementation of policy for the appropriately fulfilled its role and carried out its duties against year ahead the responsibilities described in its terms of reference.
Our remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM with 97.87% of votes in favour.
2015 AGM The resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report The Committee is satisfied that this policy provides for a strong received majority support at the 2015 AGM, but at lower than alignment between Group performance and the remuneration historical levels.
We commissioned an independent review to of executive directors and, as stated in this Report, we intend to better understand the reasons for this outcome, and the review continue to operate within this approved remuneration policy, identified a number of recommendations and actions which have incorporating the changes to the PSP described above, during now been implemented.
Further information is provided in the the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
Board Effectiveness review on page 50.
Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee About this Report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the We have structured the rest of this Report as follows: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and 65 Context and overview of the remuneration policy Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 67 Key components of Directors remuneration 2013 the Regulations, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report on Remuneration:  LLP have audited such content 69 The Remuneration Committee as required by the Act the information on pages 72 to 79 marked as audited.
70 Executive directors remuneration 71 Chairmans and non-executive directors fees 71 Annual Bonus 73 Long-term incentive Performance Share Plan PSP 76 Other audited disclosures 64 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report CONTEXT AND OVERVIEW OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY Directors remuneration policy The Directors Remuneration Policy Report was formally approved by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2014 with 97.87% of votes cast to support the resolution and it remains our intention that the policy will apply for a period of three years from the date of that AGM.
No changes have been made to the remuneration policy since it was approved by our shareholders at the 2014 AGM and we intend to operate within this policy during the financial year ending 31March 2017.
The policy is published on pages 53 to 63 of our Annual Report 2014, and also available on our website www.
The Committee retains discretion on specific aspects of policy and implementation, as described in the remuneration policy, along with an overriding discretion to determine bonus outcomes and judge the level at which share awards vest, to ensure that payments are consistent with the underlying financial health and performance of the business, within the maximum opportunity stated in the policy tables.
The Committee may make minor changes to the policy without seeking shareholder approval, for example, to benefit the administration arrangements, or to take account of changes in legislation.
Any such changes would be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
Remuneration strategy and key principles The Groups remuneration strategy, and supporting principles which apply consistently across employee, management and executive populations, is summarised in the table below.
Remuneration strategy Key principles The Groups Base pay and benefits are referenced to the comparative local market, taking account of company size remuneration strategy and operations is to provide packages For all employees, our pay for performance framework provides for meaningful differentiation in that enable the Group salary progression and opportunities for career progression, based on each individuals contribution to recruit, retain and The total package opportunity should provide meaningful reward for superior performance and motivate high-calibre encourage the achievement of genuinely stretching short-term and long-term objectives individuals in the Below executive level, key individuals who have a specific accountability for driving annual and markets in which longer-term performance may be selected to participate variously in our sales incentive plan, the we operate to deliver annual bonus plan, and or the Performance Share Plan superior operational performance and Alignment with shareholders long-term interests is carefully preserved, for example, through: a outstanding significant proportion of pay being based on performance: effective governance around remuneration financial results decisions: a considered approach to setting performance targets: the adoption of shareholding guidelines at senior executive levels: and malus and claw back provisions on incentive awards All aspects of remuneration are designed to encourage a focus on long-term, sustained performance and risk management Our approach is intended to be equitable and transparent and operate across the Group, recognising that we recruit talented individuals and operate in an international market Outcomes must be achieved in a way that is consistent with the Groups Values and Code of Ethics, and that fosters sustainable, profitable growth Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 65 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The charts below illustrate the international nature of our business although we are UK-listed and headquartered in London, a very significant proportion of our people, our shareholders, and our customers are based outside the UK.
Accordingly, it is important that our remuneration arrangements are appropriately competitive in that international context.
1 1 2 OUR SALES OUR SHAREHOLDERS OUR EMPLOYEES 1 4 4 4 3 1 UK 1% 1 UK 55% 1 UK 5% 2 US 69% 2 US 22% 2 US 48% 3 3 Other European 3 Other European 3 Other European 1 2 3 countries 9% countries 19% 2 countries 27% 2 4 Rest of world 21% 4 Rest of world 4% 4 Rest of world 20% 1 Sales by destination from continuing operations as per Note 5.
2 Analysis of shareholder register as at 30 March 2016.
A clear link between our strategy and directors remuneration The Groups remuneration arrangements place a clear emphasis on driving Group performance, through incentives that are directly linked to key performance indicators KPIs which come from our business strategy.
In this way, we maintain a keen focus on delivering long-term growth, thereby enhancing long-term value for shareholders.
The table below summarises the KPIs that we use to measure the Groups success against our strategy.
The right-hand column describes how these KPIs link directly to remuneration arrangements.
Key performance indicators Link to directors remuneration Adjusted operating profit Underlying profit performance is a key determinant of awards under the Annual Bonus Plan Adjusted diluted EPS growth Awards under the Performance Share Plan depend on this metric Dividend per share The dividend has a direct impact through individual executive share ownership and dividend equivalents on deferred bonus awards Net debt Objectives are reflected in incentive plan target setting, but this metric does not directly impact remuneration Speciality Food Ingredients sales growth Informs the sales target in the Annual Bonus Plan that is set by the Committee each year Return on capital employed Awards under the Performance Share Plan depend on this metric Group operating cash flow This is a performance metric in the Annual Bonus Plan Net debt to EBITDA and interest cover Objectives are reflected in Annual Bonus Plan targets, but this metric does not directly impact remuneration Safety metrics Safety and broader corporate responsibility matters are specific factors that the Committee may factor into decisions on pay and annual incentive plan outcomes 14 Key Performance Indicators 66 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report KEY COMPONENTS OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION As a Committee, we believe that our approach to remuneration provides a relatively simple but effective overall framework that is aligned with long-term success and returns to shareholders.
The executive directors remuneration consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, and retirement and other benefits as described in the table below.
Malus and claw back provisions apply to incentive awards following release, and a strong alignment with shareholders interests is maintained through significant personal shareholding requirements imposed on each director.
The shareholder-approved remuneration policy is published on pages 53 to 63 of our Annual Report 2014, which is available on our corporate website www.
The summary below highlights the key components of the remuneration framework for executive directors, their link to strategy, and how the remuneration policy has been implemented in 2015.
It is not intended to act as a substitute for the approved policy referred to above.
REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK SUMMARY Each component has a clear purpose, and the variable elements are driven by KPIs which have a clear link to strategy Providing market competitive fixed remuneration to attract the right calibre of executive Base salary and Base salary decisions are referenced to the comparative local market taking account of company size employment and operations and personal performance.
Increases are typically limited to the general increase for benefits Group employees in the same local market Retirement benefits are provided by way of defined contribution, or equivalent cash arrangements.
71 For more Other benefits may include car or allowance, health insurance and life cover Supporting near-term growth goals by rewarding strong annual financial performance Target bonus is 50% of salary for the CFO and 75% of salary for the CEO Annual bonus Key drivers: Maximum cash bonus is 100% of salary.
Maximum total bonus opportunity is 175% of salary, with any award over 100% paid in shares, which are deferred for two years Profit Sales Metrics relate to profitability, sales and cash flow.
Profit performance is the most important of these metrics: no bonus is payable if performance is below threshold, regardless of performance against other Cash flow metrics: and profit performance has the greatest impact on overall bonus outcomes 71 For more Supporting the Groups strategy by incentivising sustained profit growth and capital efficiency over successive three-year performance periods, and retaining senior executive talent Current awards Performance Metrics applicable to current awards were adopted in 2010 as they represent key determinants of Share Plan: shareholder value creation: Key drivers: 50% relates to EPS growth over the three-year performance period: the threshold requirement EPS is 6% compound growth p. a. and full vesting of that element requires 15% compound growth p. a. ROCE 50% relates to the ROCE performance achieved in the final year of the performance period: with the technical adjustments described on page 73, the threshold requirement for ROCE performance is 12.6% and full vesting requires ROCE performance of 15.6%, both being in excess of our weighted average cost of capital The maximum award that may be made to executive directors is 300% of salary: if the threshold level of performance is achieved across both metrics, 15% of the award will vest Changes for 2016 For 2016, changes to the metrics are proposed so that these awards are better aligned with the Group strategy and our long-term goals as described in detail on pages 74 and 75 Alongside these changes for 2016, we propose to introduce: A new post-vesting holding period so awards to executive directors will have a five-year horizon An additional dividend underpin, recognising the importance of the dividend to investors These changes are being made within our existing remuneration policy, and have been subject to a detailed 73 For more consultation with a broad group of our largest shareholders To focus on sustainable value creation over time and to strengthen long-term alignment of interests between senior executives and the Groups shareholders Shareholding Executive directors are subject to individual minimum share ownership requirements which must be requirements retained for the duration of employment: Chief Executive 4x salary : Chief Financial Officer 3x salary Claw back Share ownership requirements extend to Executive Committee members at three times base salary, and malus to a broader group of executives in senior leadership roles at a level equal to their base salary Overriding Claw back and malus provisions apply for two years following bonus awards or the vesting of PSP awards factors Safety and broader corporate responsibility matters are specific factors that the Committee may factor into decisions on pay and annual incentive plan outcomes Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 67 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Service contracts The Groups policy regarding executive directors service contracts and appointment terms is to take account of market practice, and to ensure that provisions in relation to notice periods or termination payments are not excessive, as well as to ensure that contracts provide appropriate protection for the Group, for example, in relation to restrictions on competition, solicitation of customers or employees, and the protection of intellectual property.
Executive directors are employed under service contracts commencing on dates as follows: Javed Ahmed Chief Executive 10October 2009: Nick Hampton Chief Financial Officer 1 September 2014.
The contracts provide for six months notice from the executive and 12 months notice from the Group.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment and do not have service contracts or notice periods.
Under the terms of their appointment, they are usually expected to serve on the Board for between three and nine years, subject to their re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and non-executive directors receive a fee for their services, and do not participate in the Groups incentive or pension schemes, do not receive any other benefits, and have no right to compensation if their appointment is terminated.
Service contracts for executive directors and letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Executive directors external appointments The Board believes that the Group can benefit from executive directors holding external non-executive directorships.
Such appointments are subject to approval by the Board and are normally restricted to one position for each executive director.
Fees may be retained by the executive director concerned.
No executive holds a disclosable appointment.
Consideration of shareholder views The remuneration strategy described here was established in 2010 following a review and extensive consultation with major shareholders.
Shareholders approved the continuing use of the Performance Share Plan as our long-term incentive at the AGM in 2012, and formally approved the remuneration policy at the AGM in 2014.
The Committee led by the Committee Chairman engages with our major institutional shareholders each year specifically on remuneration topics, alongside the Boards wider-ranging shareholder engagement programme.
An independent review was commissioned following the 2015 AGM, to ensure the Board and Remuneration Committee had a clear understanding of shareholders views.
The Committee also receives regular updates on investors views and corporate governance matters.
These lines of communication ensure that emerging best practice principles are factored into the Committees decision making during the year.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The principles on which we base remuneration decisions for executives as described on page 65 are broadly consistent with those on which we base remuneration decisions for all employees.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the general pay and employment conditions of other employees of the Group when making decisions on executive directors remuneration.
This includes considering the levels of base salary increase for employees below executive level, and ensuring that the same principles apply in setting performance targets for executives incentives as for other employees of the Group.
The Committee also reviews information on bonus payments and share awards made to the broader management of the Group when determining awards and outcomes at executive director level.
68 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Report sets out how our established remuneration policy has been implemented during the year.
The Report also covers details relating to the composition and key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and provides more information on how our incentive plans have operated.
Implementation of the remuneration policy in the financial year ending 31 March 2017 The Group intends to continue to operate within the approved Directors remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
Resolution to approve the Report on Remuneration at the 2016 AGM A resolution to approve this Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 21 July 2016.
Statement of shareholder voting The remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2014.
The Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 29 July 2015.
The voting outcomes were disclosed following the relevant AGM as follows: 1 Total for Total against Votes withheld Resolution number of votes % of vote number of votes % of vote number of votes Directors Remuneration Policy Report 289 561 233 97.87 6 296 870 2.13 2 779 849 Annual Report on Remuneration 180 754 298 58.77 126 815 378 41.23 15 965 954 1 Votes withheld are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
On 29 July 2015, there were 466,420,623 ordinary shares in issue, excluding treasury shares 24 July 2014 467,386,228.
The resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report received majority support at the 2015 AGM, with 58.77% votes cast in favour.
As this was lower than the very high levels of historical support, the Board commissioned an independent review to better understand the reasons for this outcome.
The review confirmed that the vote was largely reflecting shareholders views on the adjustment to compensatory awards made to the Chief Financial Officer on appointment, as described in last years Annual Report.
The independent review identified a number of recommendations and actions, which have now been implemented.
Further information is provided in the Board Effectiveness review on page 50.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Meetings during the year The Remuneration Committee comprises independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met ten times during the year.
Membership and attendance during the year were as follows: Number of meetings Number of Directors as at 31 March 2016 eligible to attend meetings attended Anne Minto Chr 10 10 William Camp 10 10 Paul Forman 10 10 Dr Ajai Puri 10 10 Former Committee member 1 Sir Peter Gershon 2 2 1 Ceased to be a member of the Committee on 1 June 2015.
Lars Frederiksen joined the Board and the Committee with effect from 1 April 2016.
The Committee has also met twice since the end of the financial year, and before the signing of the Annual Report.
The Company Secretary serves as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board: the Chief Executive: the Executive VP Human Resources: the VP Global Compensation and Benefits: and the Executive VP General Counsel are normally invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee, although none is present or involved when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
The Committees external advisor Deloitte LLP attends each meeting to provide independent advice, and also provides regular updates to the Committee on relevant corporate governance and market-related developments.
Main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Assessing the appropriateness of executive remuneration in the context of the Groups strategy and priorities as well as overall competitiveness, taking into account data from independent, external sources Setting the detailed remuneration of the executive directors, designated members of senior management, and the Company Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive, including: base salary or fees: annual bonus: long-term incentives: benefits: and contractual terms Setting performance targets for awards made to senior executives under the annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive plan, and reviewing performance outcomes Reviewing the broader operation of the annual bonus and Performance Share Plans, including participation and overall award levels Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee has a formal calendar of items for consideration.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 69 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Committee advisor The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP as its external advisor following a review and competitive tender process during 2012.
As part of its annual processes, the Committee considered and confirmed that advice received during the year from Deloitte LLP was objective and independent.
Deloitte LLP is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct: this gives the Committee additional confidence that the advice received is objective and independent of conflicts of interest.
Fees charged by Deloitte LLP for the provision of remuneration advice to the Committee amounted to 87,200 for the year ended 31March 2016, with fees being charged on a time incurred basis.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided services to the rest of the Group on corporate finance, consulting, systems, tax compliance and accounting.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Chart showing total shareholder return and Chief Executive pay The chart illustrates the cumulative total shareholder return TSR performance of Tate&LylePLC against the FTSE 100 Index over the past seven years.
The FTSE 100 Index is considered to be an appropriate benchmark for this purpose since it is a broad equity market index with constituents comparable in size to Tate&Lyle over the period to which the chart relates.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index and Tate&Lyle in the seven years from 31 March 2009.
Iain Ferguson was Chief Executive prior to that date.
The total remuneration figure shown for the year ended 31 March 2012 includes one-off compensatory appointment awards.
Comparison of movement in Chief Executive and broader employee remuneration 1 3 Change in value: year ended 31 March 2016 vs 31 March 2015 Base salary Value of benefits Annual bonus 4 Chief Executive 0% -13% n a 2 5 Broader employee population 3% -7% 1 No changes to benefit policies or provision were made in respect of the Chief Executive or employees during the year.
The % change shown versus the prior year is the result of differences in employee participation levels and changes in the cost of insured benefits.
2 The broader employee population refers to a global population of salaried employees for salary comparison and the UK employee population for the benefits comparison, reflecting the context in which executive directors salaries and benefits are determined: for the bonus comparisons, it refers to the global group of participants in the annual bonus plan so that the combination of business performance across our divisions that contributes to the Groups results is appropriately represented.
3 Includes deferred shares where applicable.
4 No bonus was paid year ended 31 March 2015, so this comparison cannot be expressed as a percentage.
5 fide-minimis annual bonus payments were made for the year ended 31 March 2015, so the year-on-year comparison noted as 2,865% for completeness is a function of the very small prior year figure.
Relative importance of spend on pay Year ended Year ended 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by employees of the Group continuing operations 262m 224m 17.0% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and purchase of ordinary shares 137m 142m -3.5% Distributions to shareholders mainly reflect the dividend 130 million which is held at the same level as the prior year.
A small component of the total represents the value of shares purchased to satisfy management share incentive awards which reduced from 12 million to 7 million in the year.
The aggregate figure therefore shows a small decrease versus the prior year, although distributions to shareholders by way of the dividend have remained constant.
70 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report The year-on-year increase in remuneration reflects: i increased salary costs in line with increased headcount year-on-year including the acquisition of Gemacom and Slovakian facility : and ii increased variable pay management incentive arrangements, reflecting company performance, relative to negligible incentive payments in the prior year.
The sections that follow provide more information on remuneration decisions and the operation of incentive plans during the year ended 31 March 2016.
Base salary Executive directors salaries are reviewed annually, with effect from 1 April.
At the 2016 review, the Committee agreed executive directors salaries for the year ahead, taking current market positioning into account.
The average increase awarded to employees across the Group was approximately 3%.
Executive directors base salaries as at 1 April 2016 2015 % change Javed Ahmed 721 000 721 000 0% Nick Hampton 512 750 495 400 3.5% CHAIRMANS AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES Fees are reviewed annually, in accordance with our stated policy, by the Committee excluding the Chairman in respect of the Chairmans fee, and by the Chairman and the executive directors in respect of other non-executive directors fees.
At the 2016 review, noting that no fee increase had been awarded since April 2014, and taking into account the competitiveness of current fees against the comparable market position, and the time commitment required of each role and the level of increase applicable to UK employees, it was agreed that fees would be increased as summarised in the table below.
Fees per annum as at 1 April 2016 2015 % change Basic fees 1 Chairman 334 250 324 500 3% Non-executive director 64 750 62 850 3% Senior Independent Director 75 050 72 850 3% Supplemental fees per annum Chairman of Audit Committee 17 150 16 650 3% Chairman of Remuneration Committee 12 900 12 500 3% Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 11 450 11 100 3% Chairman of Research Advisory Group 24 000 23 300 3% 1 The Chairmans fee includes his role as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
ANNUAL BONUS Overview The bonus structure described here applied during the year ended 31 March 2016 and will be retained for the year ending 31 March 2017.
The bonus focused performance on three objectives: profitability: sales performance: and operating cash flow.
Before any bonus is payable, a minimum level of profit has to be achieved by the Group, regardless of performance against other metrics.
For each performance metric, there is a corresponding multiplier, which varies between threshold, target and stretch levels of performance.
Once the minimum profit threshold is achieved, bonuses are calculated by applying the multipliers, which have the effect of increasing or decreasing the value of the bonus depending on performance against each metric in turn.
Step 1 Target bonus Profitability Step 2 Step 3 % of base salary Bonus achieved multiplier Sales Operating Chief Executive X X X as % of once minimum performance cash flow 75% Chief Financial base salary threshold is multiplier multiplier Officer 50% achieved At target level of performance, the multiplier is 1 for each metric, so if performance is at target against each metric, the result is a target bonus outcome.
To achieve the maximum payout, performance against all three metrics must be at or above the stretch level.
Profit performance is the most important of the three metrics, so multipliers for the profitability factor are more heavily geared than for the other two metrics, that is, improvements in profitability have a significantly greater impact on bonus payments.
All multipliers and their weightings are agreed by the Committee when targets are set at the start of the year, reflecting the importance of each of the metrics in the context of the progress made against the Groups long-term business strategy.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 175% and above a certain level of performance, the bonus calculation for the Chief Executive is made on the basis that the bonus target is 50% of salary.
Malus claw back provisions Both the cash and share elements are subject to malus and claw back provisions for a period of 24 months following award, which means that they may be recouped in whole or in part, at the discretion of the Committee, in the exceptional event that results were found to have been misstated or if an executive director commits an act of gross misconduct.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 71 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Overview for the year ended 31 March 2016 1 Stretching bonus targets set at the Bonus awards at 77% of maximum reflect solid financial performance alongside start of the year strong delivery of complex structural change projects Challenging market and operational Solid financial performance: 2 conditions: 4% increase in Group profit bonus metric Commodities headwinds Strong underlying business performance: Sucralose pricing SFI operating profit 10%: New Product sales increased to US$86 million Supply chain disruption in 2014 BI operating profit 1% with strong core business growth offsetting significant impacting customer service and the commodities weakness 29 million headwind need to re-build inventories Cash flow benefits from significant working capital reduction Increased IS IT platform depreciation Balance sheet strengthened with net debt reducing by 121 million to 434 million Manufacturing capacity constraints Lower than planned finance costs achieved from managing the timing of US bond projected for much of the year.
drawdown Adjusted diluted earnings per share 8% Clear executional priorities: Deliver major complex structural Strong delivery of complex structural change projects: change projects, including those SPLENDA Sucralose business re-positioned to maximise returns: successful announced in April 2015 closure of the Singapore plant and capacity expansion in McIntosh, Alabama, USA Strengthen supply chain performance.
Executing the Eaststarch re-alignment in Europe to increase focus on SFI through acquiring the speciality-focused plant in Slovakia and reducing exposure to more regulated markets by substantially exiting the bulk-focused plants in Turkey, Bulgaria and Hungary Both projects delivered safely, to planned timetable, and with exceptional cash costs from projects lower than planned Completion brings greater strategic focus to our SFI business, in pursuit of our 2020 Ambition 1 Targets and performance reflect proportionate consolidation of joint ventures in line with the Groups financial reporting at the start of the year: see page102 for a reconciliation to current reporting and at budgeted exchange rates, in line with prior years.
No other profit adjustments have been made.
2 Bonus metrics are at budgeted exchange rates.
Allowing for the exchange rate difference, this profit trend is consistent with adjusted profit before tax for continuing operations under proportionate consolidation of joint ventures see Note 4 which was 6% higher year-on-year as reported 3% in constant currency.
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2016 audited The table below provides further information on each metric.
The Board considers that bonus targets for the year ahead are commercially sensitive because they may reveal information about the business plan in the year ahead that may damage our competitive advantage, and accordingly does not disclose these on a prospective basis.
However, we continue our practice of reporting the level of performance required to achieve maximum bonus for the year just ended relative to the prior years performance, and the level of performance actually achieved against those targets.
Bonus objective Profitability Sales performance Cash management Metric Adjusted profit before tax Net sales less cost of raw materials Operating cash flow Definition Adjusted profit before tax, Gross sales net of associated Adjusted group operating cash exceptional items, amortisation selling costs, less the costs of flow: based on the average of and net retirement benefit interest raw materials used in production half year and full-year figures Rationale Measures the underlying profit Measures whether management Measures whether the business generated by the business and is growing the business: by is managing its working capital whether management is converting assessing growth after deducting and converting profit into cash growth into profit effectively the cost of raw materials, this effectively metric better reflects the value added by the business Threshold 176.3m 1 217.6m 56.9m Target 200.1m 1 352.9m 63.2m Stretch 209.1m 1 383.3m 66.0m 1 Actual performance 209.6m 1 326.2m 86.0m 1 See footnote 1 above.
The Committee also considers the Groups safety and overall financial performance to ensure that the results are a true reflection of the underlying strength and performance of the Group.
On the basis of these performance outcomes, annual bonus awards of 77% of maximum, equivalent to 134% of base salary, were awarded by the Committee to the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Total remuneration for the year remains below target policy levels.
The bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash.
The excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares.
The shares are released after two years subject to the executive director remaining in service with the Group, and carry the right to receive a payment in lieu of dividend between award and release.
Both the cash and share elements are subject to malus and claw back provisions, as set out on page 71.
Arrangements for the coming year This framework will be retained for the year ahead, and performance targets are established under equity accounting for joint ventures, consistent with the changes made to our reporting framework during the year.
72 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 1 Targets Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP Overview The PSP provides a share-based incentive to closely align executive directors and senior executives interests with the strategy and with the interests of shareholders over the long term, and is therefore an important component of the overall package.
At the 2012 AGM, 98% of shareholder votes cast supported the resolution to approve the PSP.
Maximum award level Since the 2010 AGM, awards to executive directors and other senior executives have been granted at the discretion of the Committee, with flexibility for the Committee to make awards of up to 300% of base salary where necessary to ensure market competitiveness, while taking into account Group performance.
Actual awards are considered by the Committee on a case-by-case basis.
The actual award to the Chief Executive in 2015 was below the maximum, at 250% of salary.
Performance conditions The release of awards depends on the Groups performance during the three-year performance period beginning on 1 April in the year of the award.
For awards made since 2010, the performance conditions comprised two elements, explained in the table below, consistent with the principles established following the review and consultation with shareholders at that time.
Metric Adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS Adjusted return on capital employed ROCE Definition Performance is measured by comparing the compound Performance is measured by the adjusted ROCE on annual growth rate CAGR of the Groups adjusted continuing operations achieved at the end of the threediluted EPS from continuing operations over the year performance period against the pre-determined 1, 2 performance period against pre-determined targets targets Weighting 50% of the award depends on this metric 50% of the award depends on this metric Rationale The Committee selected this metric as it is a key The Committee selected this metric as it is a good determinant of shareholder value creation indicator of the effectiveness of strategic investment decisions and of the quality of earnings generated Vesting schedule EPS performance Vesting outcome ROCE performance Vesting outcome 2012, 2013, 2014 CAGR % of maximum % of maximum and 2015 awards Below 6% Nil Below 12.6% Nil 6% 15% 12.6% 15% Between 6% and 15% On a straight line Between 12.6% and 15.6% On a straight line between 15% and 100% between 15% and 100% At or above 15% 100% At or above 15.6% 100% 1 The ROCE outcome may be adjusted downward in the event of an asset impairment adding this back into capital employed : this is to encourage a prudent investment strategy.
For this reason, in the event of there being an impairment of assets during the performance period, the ROCE figure for PSP purposes can be significantly lower than the unadjusted ROCE number reported in the Groups accounts.
2 ROCE performance is assessed on the basis of proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, consistent with the basis on which targets were set for awards made in 2013, 2014, and 2015.
Targets for awards to be made in 2016 will be established under equity accounting for joint ventures, consistent with the changes to our reporting made during the year.
The Board approved Eaststarch business re-alignment in the accounting period ending 31 March 2016 will impact reported ROCE performance for awards that were made prior to this date.
The pro-forma impact of these items amounts to a 0.8% reduction on reported performance and accordingly the ROCE targets applicable to outstanding awards previously disclosed as 13.4% 16.4% have been adjusted by the same amount.
The ROCE target range of 12.6% to 15.6% remains significantly above our weighted average cost of capital.
The Committee noted that the sale of joint-venture businesses was approved by the Board in the context of our Group strategy and that this adjustment is necessary to enable a like-for-like comparison of actual ROCE performance which is assessed in the final year of the performance period with the targets as they were originally intended to apply.
The Committee reviews the appropriateness of metrics and targets ahead of the grant of awards in any year to ensure these remain sufficiently stretching.
In practice, no changes to the performance targets have been made since they were established in 2010, and accordingly shares awarded under the PSP in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are subject to the same conditions.
Changes proposed for 2016 are discussed on pages 74 and 75.
Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justified by the broader underlying financial performance of the Group.
2013 PSP awards vesting by reference to the period ended 31 March 2016 audited PSP awards made in 2013 were dependent on EPS growth and ROCE targets as described above, with each condition applicable to half of the award.
Performance against these conditions and the vesting outcome is indicated in the table below.
Performance Weighting Performance Vesting outcome Combined vesting outcome condition outcome for this element EPS growth Based on the combination of EPS and ROCE 50% -10.5% nil performance, the Committee has 1 ROCE 50% 12.8% Above threshold confirmed that 10.9% of the PSP awards made in 2013 are capable of vesting.
1 ROCE performance is shown under proportionate accounting consistent with the basis on which the targets for the 2013 award were established.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 73 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The performance period applicable to 2013 awards is 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016.
Over this period, earnings per share declined, and accordingly the 50% of the award which relates to that performance metric will lapse.
Over the same period, the business has maintained clear principles in relation to the disciplined use of capital, and ROCE performance of 12.8% under proportionate accounting will result in a moderate proportion of the PSP award that was made in 2013, i. e. 10.9% of the total award, being permitted to vest.
In confirming the vesting outcome, the Committee also considered the broader underlying financial performance of Tate&Lyle over the performance period, to ensure that vesting results based on these performance outcomes are consistent with a broader view of the financial health and performance of the business.
Future awards changes to the metrics, introduction of post-vesting holding period As noted in the Chairmans introduction, we anticipated the need for a review of PSP metrics and targets in the 2015 Annual Report, and completed the review during the course of the year.
The Committee has considered the proposals set out below carefully and believes these changes which are within the scope of our existing shareholderapproved remuneration policy are necessary and appropriate, in the context of the changes in the business since the PSP was originally adopted in 2010, and the long-term ambition we have for the business.
In keeping with the commitment we made in our policy, we have consulted with a broad group of our largest shareholders in relation to these proposals, and are pleased to note that the proposals have met with high levels of stated support during that consultation process.
Business context for the review This review has been driven by a number of factors, including: There have been very significant changes in the business since 2010, when the current PSP metrics were originally adopted The new financial disclosure framework we have adopted brings greater insight to our performance against key strategic growth drivers.
Following the re-alignment of our Eaststarch joint venture in Europe, we have adopted equity accounting for joint ventures for our adjusted reporting, which brings additional clarity to our financial performance measures but has a dilutive like-for-like impact on reported ROCE The clear articulation of our 2020 Ambition see the Chief Executives Review on page 8 for further details has provided further impetus to review the operation of our long-term incentive plan to ensure it is aligned with strategy, and effective in driving performance.
There have been significant changes to the business since 2010, when the current PSP metrics were introduced: Material changes in the structure and operations of the business since 2010, including the sale of the European Sugars business completed in 2011, and disposing of the manufacturing facility at Fort Dodge, Iowa, to limit our exposure to bio-ethanol The major business re-alignment we announced in April 2015 to substantially exit our European Bulk Ingredients business which operated through our Eaststarch joint venture The significant restructuring of our SPLENDA Sucralose business also announced in April 2015 to maximise returns and reposition it as a more focused, low-cost and sustainable business.
The following business priorities form the basis of the Groups investment proposition to create value for shareholders through a materially re-shaped business focused on Speciality Food Ingredients: Mix of Group profits by 2020 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Speciality Food Ingredients Bulk Ingredients 70% Grow on average modestly ahead Core business to provide steady FROM SFI of the market earnings Margin expansion over time Dampen volatility in Commodities Broaden geographic sales mix 2 e. g. 30% sales from Asia Pacific and Latin America by 2020 1 US$200 million sales from New Products by 2020 Re-position SPLENDA Sucralose 1 Speciality Food Ingredients 70% to reflect market conditions and 2 Bulk Ingredients 30% pricing trends, and manage for modest profitability Changes to metrics for 2016 PSP awards In summary the changes to metrics and targets for 2016 are as summarised below: ROCE performance will continue to apply to half of the award, as we continue to believe very strongly in the efficient deployment of Group capital The other half of the award will be focused on profit growth: to best reflect our business mix and growth priorities, we intend that half of this element will relate to growth in Group operating profit PBTEA, while half will relate to growth in SFI operating profit PBITEA excluding SPLENDA Sucralose.
74 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Appropriate threshold and stretch targets for each of these metrics have been considered carefully by the Committee taking into account a number of reference points, as indicated below.
Overall, performance at these levels requires both our Speciality Food Ingredients SFI and Bulk Ingredients BI businesses to perform strongly in their respective markets: growing SFI modestly ahead of the global market which is expected to grow at c. 4-5%, and managing the BI business for steady earnings against a US bulk sweeteners market that is in long-term structural decline see pages 10 and 11 for more details in Marketplace.
Metrics for 2016 Rationale for metric Target range Rationale for target ranges Awards weighting threshold-stretch SFI adjusted Consistent with the 8% 13% p. a.
Targets above-market SFI growth and significant new operating profit SFI growth-led 3-year compound product sales expressed in 2020 Ambition excluding business strategy and growth Value generative in context of global market growth SPLENDA investment case of 4-5% and our historic operating profit growth trend Sucralose 25% of c. 7% excluding SPLENDA Sucralose Growth rates reflect 2020 Ambition that Group profits from SFI increase to 70% by 2020 Group adjusted profit Key performance 5% 10% p. a.
Targets are consistent with execution of Group strategy: before tax 25% metric to drive 3-year compound steady earnings from BI currently c. 40-50% of profits, sustainable longgrowth redeploying capacity to SFI over time, with profitable term profitable SFI growth ahead of market growth Targets are aligned with our 2020 Ambition and the realities of our operating model without growth investment in BI Group Return on Drives efficient 12% 16% in the final Proposed ROCE targets drive disciplined efficient Capital Employed investment to year of the 3-year approach to capital allocation ROCE 50% generate value-added performance period Reflects geographic footprint post exit from European returns from the total bulk business business Recognises technical reduction from equity accounting for joint ventures Incentivises ROCE progression from current levels Financial underpin Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justified by the broader underlying financial performance of the Group.
The level of vesting at threshold will continue to be limited to 15% of the maximum for executive directors, and we are not making any changes to the maximum award levels which were approved by shareholders as part of our remuneration policy.
Other changes: post-vesting holding period and dividend underpin In conjunction with these changes from 2016, the Committee proposes to: Impose a new post-vesting holding period: executive directors will be required to hold shares for a two-year period after the end of the three-year performance period i. e. the combination of performance and holding period will be five years in total.
This holding period will sit alongside the existing personal shareholding requirements and claw back malus provisions, and demonstrates a strong long-term alignment with shareholder interests Adopt a specific additional Committee discretion to reduce PSP vesting for the performance period, regardless of the level of achievement against the applicable performance conditions, if dividends paid by the Group over the performance period do not conform to the stated dividend policy.
We have made a commitment to a progressive dividend policy, where we aim to grow the dividend over time taking into account the earnings prospects of the business.
This approach recognises the importance of the dividend to investors, and underlines the Groups commitment to the stated dividend policy.
Malus and claw back provisions Awards made under the PSP from 1 April 2013 are subject to malus and claw back provisions for a period following the vesting date and extending to the fifth anniversary following the date of grant.
During this period, the Committee may determine that an award will lapse wholly or in part or may require that a participant shall repay up to 100% of the value of any award that has vested by virtue of performance, in the event of circumstances including the following: material misstatement of financial results: misconduct which justifies, or could justify, summary dismissal of the participant: or if information emerges which would have affected the value of the original award that was granted to a participant, or the level at which the performance conditions were judged to have been satisfied.
Changes for 2017 will align with 2020 Ambition The proposed changes for 2017 financial year that are described here have been carefully developed to reflect the strategy and 2020 Ambition, and have been subject to a detailed shareholder consultation process.
These proposals align the PSP with our strategic priorities to deliver long-term value by: Incentivising overall growth in the value of the Group Focusing on above market growth in our higher value SFI business Maintaining a strong balance sheet.
With this approach, the Committee is confident that PSP awards will be appropriately aligned with strategy and priorities in the business, and our long-term outlook as expressed in the 2020 Ambition.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 75 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued OTHER AUDITED DISCLOSURES Single figure table audited 1 000s Salary fees Benefits Annual bonus Share awards Pension Total 3 Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Chairman Sir Peter Gershon 325 325 325 325 Executive directors 4 Javed Ahmed 721 721 20 23 968 178 252 252 2 139 996 5 Nick Hampton 495 280 13 19 665 521 123 70 1 817 369 Non-executive 2 directors Liz Airey 73 81 73 81 William Camp 74 74 74 74 Paul Forman 63 16 63 16 Douglas Hurt 80 64 80 64 Anne Minto 75 66 75 66 Dr Ajai Puri 86 86 86 86 Former director 6 Virginia Kamsky 16 63 16 63 Totals 2 008 1 776 33 42 1 633 699 375 322 4 748 2 140 1 Benefits for executive directors include health insurance and car allowance.
The cash value of the healthcare benefit provided to the Chief Executive will increase in the year ahead to better reflect the cost of provision of international healthcare benefits since the position was originally established on appointment in 2009 driven by periodic premium renewals and the rates based on age and medical inflation trends over time.
2 In accordance with the Groups expenses policies, non-executive directors receive reimbursement for their reasonable expenses for attending Board meetings.
In instances where those costs are treated by HMRC as taxable benefits, the Group also meets the associated tax cost to the non-executive director through a PAYE settlement agreement with HMRC.
3 Bonus includes the value of deferred shares.
The cash bonus award to Javed Ahmed was 721,000 and the cash bonus award to Nick Hampton was 495,000.
4 This is the PSP Award made in 2013.
PSP awards outcomes are discussed on page 73.
5 This is a compensatory share award made on appointment.
Further details are provided on page 78.
6 Virginia Kamsky stepped down as a director on 1 July 2015.
Total pension entitlements audited Directors participate in arrangements that are defined contribution in nature.
Contributions made to or in lieu of pension in respect of each director during the year are shown in the single figure table, and are equivalent to 35% of salary for the Chief Executive and 25% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Payments to past directors audited As announced on 24 June 2014, Tim Lodge stepped down as Chief Financial Officer on 31 August 2014 and ceased employment with the Group on 31 December 2014.
As we announced at the time, and in keeping with our shareholder-approved policy, the Committee determined that Mr Lodge would retain rights to previously granted PSP awards which may vest subject to the rules of the Performance Share Plan and the relevant performance criteria, on a time pro-rated basis reflecting the proportion of the three-year vesting period during which he was employed as reflected in the table on page 77 of the 2015 Annual Report.
Accordingly the pro-rated portion of the award made in 2013 will vest at 10.9%, being 9,579 shares, based on the achievement of performance conditions as described on page73.
The Committee has not exercised any discretion in relation to this individuals award.
There have been no other payments to past directors other than as disclosed in this Report.
No loss-of-office payments have been made during the year.
76 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Share awards made during the year audited Number of Face value Performance Performance % of vesting Award Type of award Date of grant shares of award conditions period at threshold 1 Javed Ahmed Performance Nil cost option 10 December 292 595 1 802 500 50% adjusted Three 15% Share Plan 2015 diluted EPS financial growth: years ending 50% adjusted 31 March 2 ROCE 2018 1 Nick Performance Nil cost option 10 December 241 251 1 485 000 50% adjusted Three 15% Hampton Share Plan 2015 diluted EPS financial growth: years ending 50% adjusted 31 March 2 ROCE 2018 4 AppointmentNil cost option 7 July 2015 121 781 700 000 Continued Three 0% related employment financial Restricted and satisfactory years ending 3 Share Award personal 31 March performance 2017 1 Under the terms of the Plan approved by shareholders, the number of shares comprising an award in any year is calculated based on the average share price over the last three months of the preceding financial year, being 616.04 pence per share for the 2015 award.
During the year, the Committee approved awards of 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 300% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer, which is within our approved remuneration policy.
2 Performance conditions applicable to Performance Share Plan awards made in 2015 are described on page 73.
3 As set out in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report page 71 of Annual Report 2015.
The 2015 Directors Remuneration Report was subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
4 This award was made by reference to the average share price over the five dealing days from 28 May 2015, being 574.80 pence.
Historic awards under all-employee schemes audited The table below sets out the current position of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company that were granted to current and former executive directors in the years prior to the current reporting year.
Savings-related share options are options granted under the HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan.
Options are granted on the same terms to all participating employees, are not subject to performance conditions, and are normally exercisable during the six-month period following the end of the relevant threeor five-year savings contract.
The exercise price reflects a 20% discount to market value as permitted under HMRC rules, and is applicable to all participants.
Options Options Options As at As at vested exercised lapsed 31 March Exercise 1 April 2015 during year during year during year 2016 price Exercise number number number number number pence period Javed Ahmed 01 03 15 to Savings-related options 2009 3 720 3 720 0 418.00 31 08 15 Javed Ahmed 01 03 20 to Savings-related options 2014 5 941 5 941 510.00 31 08 20 Nick Hampton 01 03 20 to Savings-related options 2014 3 529 3 529 510.00 31 08 20 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 77 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Share awards made in prior years audited The table below sets out the current position of share-based awards made to executive directors.
Market Market price price As at Awards Awards Awards As at on date on date 31 March vested lapsed exercised 31 March awards awards 2015 during year during year during year 2016 granted exercised Vesting number number number number number pence pence date Javed Ahmed Share-incentive arrangements on recruitment: 1 Compensatory Award A 419 403 419 403 444.90 01 10 11 2,3 Compensatory Award C 257 870 257 870 444.90 525.00 29 05 12 2,3 Long-term incentive Award A 656 640 656 640 444.90 525.00 29 05 12 2,4 Long-term incentive Award B 473 042 473 042 440.20 525.00 28 05 13 2,5 Long-term incentive Award C 256 134 256 134 590.50 525.00 27 05 14 2,7 Performance Share Plan : After 8 6 2012 310 567 310 567 671.00 31 03 15 After 8 2013 267 418 267 418 817.50 31 03 16 After 2014 305 584 305 584 707.83 31 03 17 Deferred shares from annual bonus 9 Bonus year ending 31 March 2012 2 010 2 010 671.00 525.00 29 05 14 Nick Hampton Share incentive arrangements on recruitment: 01 09 15 and 10 11 2014 Restricted Share Award 193 361 96 681 193 361 620.60 01 09 16 1 This award, to compensate Javed Ahmed for certain long-term incentives given up by him as a consequence of leaving his former employer, was not subject to performance conditions.
The shares were available to exercise from 1 October 2011, being the second anniversary of Javed Ahmed joining the Group, and will remain exercisable until 30 September 2017.
Pending delivery, he receives a payment in lieu of dividend on these shares which is subject to the deduction of tax.
In the event of a change in control, the shares would be delivered immediately.
2 The three-year performance period for these awards began on the first day of the financial year in which the award was granted.
3 This award was subject to the same performance conditions as PSP awards made in 2009.
4 This award was subject to the same performance conditions as PSP awards made in 2010.
5 This award was subject to the same performance conditions as PSP awards made in 2011.
6 As disclosed in the Annual Report 2015, the Chief Executive informed the Committee that he waived his entitlement to the proportion 14.7% of the award that was capable of vesting.
7 The performance conditions for PSP awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are 50% adjusted diluted EPS and 50% adjusted ROCE, as described in this Report.
8 The PSP award made in 2013 will vest at just above threshold, following the Committees assessment of performance conditions as described on page 73.
9 Deferred shares are granted under the annual bonus scheme as described on page 72.
The full value of these awards has been disclosed previously in the emoluments table s in the relevant bonus year s. For example, the values of deferred shares relating to performance in the year ended 31 March 2012 are included in the emoluments table for the year ended 31 March 2012 contained within the Annual Report 2012.
10 This award was made in connection with Nick Hamptons employment, to compensate him for incentives forfeited with his previous employer, as described in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report which itself was subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM : 2014 Restricted Share Award RSA : As described on page 71 of the 2015 Annual Report, the 2014 RSA may vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversary of appointment, subject to employment and specified performance conditions.
The performance conditions attached to the RSA relate to strategic and operational milestone activities agreed by the Committee, the detailed disclosure of which was considered to be commercially sensitive at the time of grant.
The Committee approved the vesting of the first tranche of the award, in full, on the first anniversary of appointment, taking into account Nick Hamptons specific contributions to the business, including: Leadership of the supply chain review project to address the factors that led to disruption in winter 2014 15 which had an impact on the financial results for the year ended 31 March 2015 Playing an instrumental role in the major actions we announced in April to re-align the business to strengthen and increase the focus and quality of our Speciality Food Ingredients business Leading the improvements in our communications with the market, including the development of the enhanced disclosure framework, announced in the Groups half-year results for the six months to 30 September 2015.
11 This date applies to the second tranche of the RSA which may vest on the second anniversary of appointment.
78 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited Personal share ownership requirements policy on executive share ownership The Committee and executive management believe that personal investment in Company shares is an important part of our overall remuneration framework.
Material personal investment in Company shares serves to strengthen the long-term alignment of interests between senior executives and shareholders.
Our executive shareholding requirements are more demanding and extend to a greater number of senior executives in the Group when compared with similar UK-listed companies.
The Chief Executive has a target share ownership requirement of four times base salary, and his current shareholding significantly exceeds this target.
The Chief Financial Officer has a target shareholding of three times base salary, to be achieved within five years of appointment.
Nick Hampton joined Tate&Lyle in September 2014, and therefore has until September 2019 to meet this target.
Other Executive Committee members are subject to the share ownership policy, with target holdings at three times salary.
This policy extends to a broader group of executives who have senior leadership roles within the Group.
The shareholding target for this group is equal to their base salary.
Under the shareholding policy, the value of shareholdings is assessed net of tax, at the prevailing share price, and executives are expected to reach the required level of shareholding within five years of appointment.
The Committee monitors progress against the share ownership requirements annually.
Directors interests audited The interests held by each person who was a director during the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All of the interests set out in the table are beneficially held and no director had interests in any class of shares other than ordinary shares.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share plans.
Shares Shares not Options not Interest in conditional on conditional on conditional on Total as at Total as at 1 2 3 4 shares performance performance performance 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Chairman Sir Peter Gershon 149 729 149 729 106 006 Executive directors Javed Ahmed 3 028 692 865 597 419 403 5 941 4 319 633 4 246 736 Nick Hampton 20 000 337 931 218 462 3 529 579 922 438 923 Non-executive directors Liz Airey 26 000 26 000 26 000 William Camp 6 800 6 800 4 800 Paul Forman 10 000 10 000 Douglas Hurt 10 000 10 000 10 000 Anne Minto 8 600 8 600 8 600 Dr Ajai Puri 6 018 6 018 6 018 Former director 5 Virginia Kamsky 10 000 10 000 10 000 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
2 Includes awards under the Performance Share Plan and the special arrangements that were put in place to facilitate Javed Ahmeds and Nick Hamptons recruitment which are subject to performance conditions as described on page 78.
These awards were made as options with a nil exercise price.
3 Includes vested but unexercised awards granted to Javed Ahmed and Nick Hampton, and unvested awards made to Nick Hampton in connection with their respective appointments.
4 These are HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan awards.
5 As at cessation of directorship on 1 July 2015.
There were no changes in directors interests in the period from 1 April 2016 to 25 May 2016.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the close of business on 31 March 2016 was 578.00 pence, and the range during the year ended 31 March 2016 was 502.00 pence to 654.50 pence.
On behalf of the Board Anne Minto Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2016 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 79
