Directors report: Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED such as due diligence and similar assurance services exceed 30% of External auditor the prior year Group audit fee.
In addition, fees for eligible non-audit Re-appointment services are not to exceed 70% of the Group audit fee, calculated on As noted earlier, Deloitte LLP is the Companys external auditor.
The Board is satisfied that, following the performance is kept under regular review by the Board and the Audit above-mentioned review and taking into account the forthcoming new Committee and the Committee undertook a formal assessment of the regulation, this policy will be conducive to the maintenance of good external audit process during the external audit of the Companys 2016 governance, best practice and auditor independence and objectivity.
results and of Deloittes suitability going forward.
Non-audit services in 2016 predominantly related to work undertaken This review took the form of a detailed checklist and questionnaire as a result of Deloittes role as auditors, in particular the assurance work issued to Directors: executives involved in the detailed stages of the carried out in connection with the announcement of the Companys audit process: and a representative sample of employees in regional half year results for 2016, which is of direct benefit to shareholders business units which were subject to audit.
The responses were although it is not formally regarded as audit work for reporting augmented by external feedback on the relative performance of purposes.
Deloitte also performed certain real estate work, for which auditors generally, and from regulatory sources.
they were selected as they were considered to be the best supplier for that service.
All independence considerations were considered with The outcome of this review was that the Committee recommended to regard to these services, in line with the above policy, and were fully the Board, which in turn is recommending to shareholders in Resolution compliant with it.
13 at the 2017 AGM on page 154, that Deloitte LLP should continue as auditor to the Company.
The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the importance of the independence of auditors.
Its review of the auditors performance Tender during 2016 included non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied A formal competitive audit tender process was carried out by the that the carrying out of the above work did not, and will not going Company with regard to the 2008 audit, following which Deloitte was forward, impair the independence of the external auditor.
It also selected to continue as external auditor to the Company.
The current recognises that, from time to time, there is a clear commercial lead engagement partner is Edward Hanson, whose responsibility for advantage based on cost and timetable requirements in using the the audit under Deloittes partner rotation scheme commenced with the Companys auditors.
As a result, the value of non-audit services work 2014 audit.
The Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put the was 0.1m in 2016 2015: 0.2m as set out in Note 6 to the Accounts external audit contract out to tender at least once every 10 years.
Company also notes the guidance issued by the FRC by way of transitional arrangements.
Therefore, and having due regard to the Internal Audit foregoing, having conducted a tender process in 2007 2008, the The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency Company presently intends to defer tendering again, until completion of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets: ofEdward Hansons rotation following the conclusion of the audit of the to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks: and to monitor 2018 accounts in 2019, but will of course keep the matter under the activities of the Group in accomplishing established objectives.
regular review, taking into account the annual performance review to be Following each review an Internal Audit report is provided to both conducted by the Committee as well as other relevant factors.
There the management responsible for the area reviewed and the Group are no contractual restrictions on the Companys selection of its Management Team GMT.
These reports outline Internal Audits opinion external auditor.
of the management control framework in place together with actions indicating improvements proposed or made as appropriate.
The Chief Statement of compliance Executive, the GMT and senior management consider thereports on The Company has complied throughout the reporting year with the a regular basis and are responsible for ensuring thatimprovements provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market are made as agreed.
A database of audit recommendations and Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender processes and improvement initiatives is maintained.
Follow-up and escalation Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. processes ensure that such improvements are implemented and fully embedded in a timely manner.
Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services The Company belongs to and participates in industry-wide The Audit Committee has a formal policy on whether the Companys external auditor should be employed to provide services other than forumsandother initiatives aimed at combating fraud within the constructionindustry.
In line with the Code, the Committee has regard to the relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services Summaries of all key Internal Audit reviews and activity and resulting by Deloitte.
reports are provided to the Audit Committee for review and discussion.
As part of that policy, the Committee has determined that the following The Internal Audit function also formally reviews proposed related-party assignments should not be undertaken by the auditors: transactions, such as purchases by employees from Group companies, to ensure proper procedures are followed and that such procedures are Bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or undertaken strictly in accordance with the formal policy in place and, financial statements.
The provision of advice on large Information Technology systems.
The most recent independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit function was carried out in 2015 on behalf of the Audit Committee Services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, by PwC and its nding was that Internal Audit continues to operate recruitment or remuneration.
A number of initiatives were progressed during 2016 to The Committee has reviewed this policy in light of the new regulation ensure the Internal Audit function continues to meet both current best set out in the EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulation 2014.
These practice and the evolving needs of the Group.
Regulations came into force on 17 June 2016 and apply to the The Internal Audit Charter, which codifies the aims, processes Company from 1 October 2017. and outputs of Internal Audit, was reviewed by the Committee for The Regulations substantially curtail those non-audit services which ongoing appropriateness.
can be provided by the auditor to the Group and in particular prohibits The Head of Internal Audit has direct access at all times to the all tax-related services, including compliance services as well as general Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board and also advice, and all consultancy and advisory services.
The Regulations also to the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
require that Board approval is required if eligible non-audit services, 76 Taylor Wimpey plc The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational, related resourcing, in the light of projected wider economic and market compliance and assurance controls which include risk management.
The Committee reviewed the Directors expectations: the criteria upon which they were based: and the sensitivities applied: and Compliance with the Groups system of internal control is primarily driven and agreed that they were reasonable.
The statement appears on page 47 co-ordinated through compliance with an established Operating Framework together with details of the processes, assumptions, and testing which supported by detailed manuals covering the main disciplines.
clear levels of delegated authority, responsibility and accountability, and are subject to periodic review to ensure they remain appropriate and Annual Report and Accounts 2016 proportionate to the Groups changing strategic and operating requirements.
Adherence to the Operating Framework is monitored by management and Code provision C. 1 assessed independently by Internal Audit.
At its half year and year end The Board has responsibility under C. 1 of the Code and its Supporting meetings, the Board reviews risk in relation to the Companys strategic Principles and Code Provisions, for preparing the Companys Annual objectives and its current plans to deliver them.
It also reviews progress and Report and Accounts: for ensuring that it presents a fair, balanced and performance in action taken to mitigate the impact of thoserisks.
understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects: The Board is supported in this by more regular and detailed reviews, by and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Audit Committee, including the review of progress reports from Internal the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Audit, and by operational risk reviews across the business, led by the Process GMT.
These reviews during 2016 resulted in a number of enhancements to internal controls, designed to reduce or better manage risk across the The review of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts took the form of a detailed assessment of the collaborative process of drafting them, business.
These included issuing of an updated Commercial Manual with improved processes, controls and monitoring: restating the critical which involves the Companys Investor Relations: Company Secretariat: and Finance Departments, with guidance and input fromother relevant elements of the Customer Journey process: and initiating work to strengthen supply chain interfaces.
It ensured that there is a clear and unied link between this Annual Report and Accounts and the Companys With regard to cyber risk, the Committee oversees the actions being taken other external reporting, and between the three main sections of the to monitor Information Technology IT initiatives which aim to either directly Annual Report andAccounts the Strategic Report: the Governance protect and reduce the risk of cyber type attacks and fraud, support and Reports: and the Financial Statements.
enhance the current IT environment or that are crucial in their contribution to key business initiatives aiming to enhance the experience of customers, In particular, the Committee: suppliers and employees.
Reviewed all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this Annual Report.
At its meeting in February 2017, the Board, after conducting its own review and after reviewing more detailed assessments from the Audit Committee, Ensured that it correctly reected the Companys performance remained satisfied that the system of internal control continued to be effective in the reporting year, as described on pages 48 to 52. in identifying, assessing, and ranking the various risks facing the Company: Ensured that it correctly reected the Companys business model, and in monitoring and reporting progress in mitigating their potential impact as described on pages 25 to 41. on the Company.
The Board also approved the statement of the Principal Ensured that it correctly described the Companys strategy, Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report.
Ensured that it presented a consistent message throughout.
Whistleblowing Considered whether it presented the information in a clear and concise The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear process that manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate shareholders includes an  hotline through which any person, access to relevant information.
including employees of the Company, may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other operational matters significant items or inappropriate behaviours in the work place.
All whistleblowing cases As part of the above process, the Committee considered the following are formally investigated by the Head of Internal Audit, Group Director significant items in connection with the preparation of the 2016 Annual of Health, Safety and Environment where appropriate, Group Human Report and Accounts: Resources Director and or the Group Legal Director and Company That the carrying value of inventory is reective of the lower of cost Secretary depending on the nature of the issue.
The Chief Executive is and net realisable value and all relevant disclosures are included in the apprised of all allegations and conclusions of the review.
The Company carries out a net realisable value assessment Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the Audit for inventory every six months, the process and results of which are Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit Committee discussed by the Audit Committee.
agenda, which allows the Committee to regularly review the adequacy of That the assumptions used in calculating the net pension liabilities the policy in line with its requirement to do so under the Code.
The policy are reasonable and supported by appropriate data and external itself is periodically reviewed and an exercise is currently underway to advice.
The Company takes external advice, including market-wide update it including the ability for workers to make protected disclosures comparisons, in valuing pension assets and liabilities.
These are under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 with regard to our business and its discussed and agreed by the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the policy and its The Committee also satisfied itself that the underlying business administration remain effective.
processes that dictate the way in which inventory is costed and Going concern allocated remains appropriate.
The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities, taking As part of the year-end process the Audit Committee received updates on into account the Principal Risks and Uncertainties identied on pages 44 other judgemental areas including provisions and taxation.
Having considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view presentation of exceptional items and changes to IFRS were also that the Groups nancing arrangements and capital structure provide both considered when reviewing the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
The Committee Conclusion reviewed the forecasts and the Directors expectations based thereon, A summary of the process and of the Committees findings, was and agreed that they were reasonable.
Accordingly, the consolidated considered by the Board at its meeting on 23 February 2017.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concernbasis.
outcome of that review was that the Committee confirmed to the Board Viability Statement that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts met the requirements of Code provision C. 1, and the Boards formal statement to that effect, The viability statement is designed to be a longer term view of the to meet the requirements of the Code, is set out on page 63. sustainability of the Companys strategy and business model and 77 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT KATE BARKER Chairman of the Remuneration Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDER Following my appointment to the position of Chairman of the MAIN OBJECTIVE Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2016, having served on the Committee since April 2011, on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures summarise the Companys current Remuneration Policy the Current for developing policy on executive remuneration: to propose to Policy and the way it has been implemented during 2016. the Board a suitable remuneration policy which challenges and motivates the senior management team to deliver the Looking ahead, I also explain in this report the Committees thinking with Companys strategy and deliver value for our shareholders: to regard to the design and structure of the revised Remuneration Policy the agree the remuneration packages of individual Directors and New Policy which is being put forward to shareholders for approval on a senior executives: and to monitor and report on them.
binding basis at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
If approved, the New Policy, will operate from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM until our AGM 2016 DEVELOPMENTS in 2020.
Supported delivery of the Companys strategy through a The Committee continues to remain very mindful of the interest in Remuneration Policy allied to robust and stretching targets that executive remuneration.
The Committee has therefore carefully reviewed ensured that the potential and actual reward available to and taken into consideration the developments in corporate governance Executive Directors and wider executive team was closely linked and best practice during the year.
In line with this, the Committee has to performance measures reecting those achievements.
again sought to ensure that the remuneration policies and practices at Reviewed the Remuneration Policy with the support of the Taylor Wimpey, and the New Policy being proposed at this years AGM, Committee advisers and consulted with shareholders and are clearly explained and justied such that they will drive behaviour that shareholder bodies ahead of the submission of the New Policy to shareholders for approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
is both appropriate and in the long term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Continued the process of increasing alignment with shareholders through encouraging greater participation in our all-employee The Committee has continued its much-valued and long established share plans and share ownership guidelines at management practice of engaging and consulting with its key institutional investors levels below the senior team.
and also with shareholder representative bodies with regard to Director In conjunction with the Board, further increased participation remuneration, focusing in particular on obtaining feedback on the by our employees inthe all-employee share plans.
proposals for the New Policy.
As in previous years, the Committee has considered and taken into account all of the feedback which it has 2017 OBJECTIVES received and is, as ever, very grateful for the constructive engagement To carefully monitor Company performance in relation to the that has taken place.
achievement of its strategic goals, so as to ensure that the Shareholders approved the Current Policy at the 2014 AGM, with a vote potential and actual reward available to Executive Directors and in favour of in excess of 98%.
Subsequent years Remuneration Reports the wider executive team remains closely linked to performance detailing the application year on year of the Current Policy were approved measures reecting those achievements.
by shareholders with votes in favour of in excess of 99% in 2015 and 98% To prepare for the implementation of the New Remuneration in 2016.
I believe that this level of support indicates that the Current Policy Policy subject to its approval by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
has been appropriate and proportionate and that shareholders have To continue the process of increased alignment with recognised this.
Accordingly, the Committee has very much borne this in shareholders through increased participation in our all-employee mind when considering the framework of the New Policy.
To review ways in which employees and stakeholder views are The Committee remains rmly committed to ensuring that the taken into account at Board level.
remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Management Team supports and drives the Taylor Wimpey strategy based on a framework Remuneration Committee which both challenges and motivates the Senior Management Team to deliver the strategy and value for our shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Kate Barker.
All members of the Committee are Independent Non Executive A summary of the changes proposed between the Current Policy and Directors as required by the Code.
Its members are set out in the the New Policy is set out on page 81 and as can be seen, only limited table below.
changes are being proposed for shareholder approval.
One change that we are proposing relates to pension contributions: so as to ensure that Directors are treated the same as other senior executives, the pension Committee members Number of meetings attended contributions for any future Director appointed to the Board will be Kate Barker Committee Chairman 2 2 reduced from the current maximum of 30% of salary down to 20%.
Kevin Beeston Chairman 2 2 Secondly, the malus and clawback provisions which were introduced in a Angela Knight 0 0 2015 so as to apply to the long term incentive plan in the same way as they already applied to the annual bonus scheme are now included in Rob Rowley 2 2 the Policy table.
b Margaret Ford Former Member 2 2 a Appointed on 1 November 2016. b Resigned on 1 November 2016.
78 Taylor Wimpey plc PERFORMANCE MEASURES AGAINST OUR STRATEGY The Remuneration Committee closely links performance targets and announced by the Company in May 2016 when setting the various remuneration with the achievement of the Companys strategic performance targets for executive management.
Those objectives are set out on pages 26 to 27 and the performance targets and strategy is set out below and also later in this Remuneration Committee was mindful of the Medium Term Strategy Report on page 88.
Measures in our Variable pay plans Link to Strategic Priorities Financial measures in Annual Incentive Plans Revenue, Trading profit, Cash To maximise revenue and margin, generally without increasing turnover, and ensure that a significant majority of the profit is available as cash to service dividends to shareholders Business objectives in Annual Incentive Plans Re-investment Provide for replenishment of raw materials for the business, primarily land but also e. g. staff development, whilst remaining within the agreed strategy and budget constraints Processes Develop and improve robust processes to deliver the strategy in a safe and environmentally friendly manner People Develop the team: spot and encourage talent and progression: maintain robust succession planning: and monitor employees satisfaction Customers Improve quality, reliability and responsiveness to customer concerns Performance measures in our Performance Share Plan Alignment with shareholder interests Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to the FTSE 100 and to major UK housebuilders efficient use of capital Improving returns on capital invested in each project: development: and business: ensuring capital allocations encourage efficiency and provide for sufficient return to shareholders PBIT Margin Margin is a key indicator, both for investors and for the Companys strategy of driving margin rather than volume Cash conversion Ensure that a significant majority of profit is available as cash to service dividends to shareholders The Remuneration Committee is confident that the New Policy will ensure invite shareholders to vote on the proposed New Plan at the same time that the level of remuneration in place and its linkage to the achievement of as they vote on the introduction of the New Policy referred to earlier.
A increasing shareholder value continues to remain appropriate.
In particular, summary of the rules of the proposed New Plan is set out in the Appendix the New Policy is designed to: ensure that executive remuneration will to the Notice of AGM on pages 161 to 163. continue to be directly related to the achievement of the Companys Salaries strategic aims: link a significant proportion of pay to performance, with appropriate and robust performance criteria and targets: directly relate The general annual salary increase being proposed throughout the increases in pay and pension to the workforce in general: have no Company is 2% of salary and it is proposed that this will also apply to the retrospective adjustment or re-testing of performance or related metrics: three Executive Directors.
As in previous years, salary increases for the and remain sufciently exible to address changing circumstances as they year 2017 will take effect from 1 April.
arise but within carefully agreed parameters.
The Remuneration Committee therefore commends the New Policy to shareholders as Annual Bonus Scheme Resolution 20 at the 2017 AGM as set out in the Notice of Meeting on During the year, the Company performed strongly against its financial page 155. targets, namely: Earnings Before Interest and Tax, Return on Capital Employed and Cash Conversion.
The Company did not however meet the The New Policy is subject to a binding vote of shareholders and is included challenging Customer Service target that was set for 2016 and which in this Report in full.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes attracted a 20% weighting.
Improving customer service will continue to the implementation of the Current Policy during the year, will again be remain an area of ongoing focus by the management team during 2017. subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Voting on both the New Based on the performance of the Company against its targets, the bonus Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration, will take place at the outturn for 2016 was 120% of the maximum bonus potential of 150% of forthcoming AGM to be held on 27 April 2017. salary.
Consistent with recent practice, one-third of this incentive for the The Committee is also proposing at the AGM to seek approval for a new Executive Directors will be deferred into shares to be held on trust for three long term incentive plan in the form of a new Performance Share Plan years without any matching element.
For 2017, the Committee is proposing the New Plan.
The New Plan, is intended to operate for a period of ten that the structure of the Annual Bonus Scheme in terms of metrics and years and will effectively be based on the Existing Performance Share Plan, weightings should remain unchanged.
other than incorporating some revisions to the Rules in order to bring them Full details of the performance targets and the relative achievement against into line with current and best practice.
Although the Existing Plans ten each, are set out in detail on page 92. year life does not expire until 16 April 2018, having been approved by shareholders in 2008, the Committee considers it to be appropriate to 79 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Subject to shareholder approval, a new Performance Share Plan the New Plan will be introduced for awards made after 2017.
For awards made in Executive Directors single gure 2017 under the Existing Plan, margin on a PBIT basis will be re-introduced The following chart compares the 2016 single gure for total as a performance metric.
The Committee believes this measure continues remuneration for each of the Executive Directors with the to be a key indicator for investors and for the Companys overall strategy of equivalent gure for 2015.
The gures for 2015 have been restated driving margin.
To enable this change, Cash Conversion will have a reduced as explained in note d on page 90 so as to provide a more weighting from 25% to 15%.
ROCE will also have a reduced weighting meaningful comparison by only including the 2013 PSP awards from 25% to 20%.
The ROCE performance measure has itself been that vested in the 2015 gures.
stretched from a range of 26% last years stretch to 30%: the Cash Conversion target has been stretched from 65%-70% to 65%-75%: and the Executive Single total remuneration gure 000 new PBIT Margin target is 20%-22% which is designed to broadly reect Director the Companys announced medium term strategy in seeking to further Pete Redfern 2016 28% 26% 46% 3,764 increase the expected returns from thebusiness.
TSR versus the FTSE 100 Chief Executive and TSR versus the designated industry peer group will remain unchanged.
2015 19% 17% 64% 5,438 The Committee rmly believes in ensuring a strong alignment between its Ryan Mangold 2016 28% 28% 44% 1,795 Executive Directors and senior management with the interests of the Group Finance Director Companys shareholders.
Executive Directors interests continue to be 2015 20% 19% 61% 2,456 strongly aligned with those of the Companys shareholders in three ways: James Jordan through the share ownership requirements described on page 94 the level 2016 29% 26% 45% 1,785 Group Legal Director of which the Committee will keep under regular review : via the requirement and Company 2015 20% 17% 63% 2,549 to defer each year one third of their annual bonus into shares which are then Secretary required to be held on trust for three years described in more detail on page 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0 83, and through the requirement to retain for one year after vesting, the Fixed Pay Bonus LTIP net post-tax benefit deriving from any vesting of the PSP award for 2014 rising to a two year retention for awards in 2015 and subsequent years.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Committee supports the employee voice proposals currently under The level of vesting under the Performance Share Plan awards made in consideration by the Government and in anticipation of this, the Company 2014 reect the increasingly challenging targets that were set for is already putting in place a National Employee Forum which will build upon participants and the impact on the TSR measure of some wider economic the existing regional Employee Consultative Committees.
It is intended that uncertainties.
However, other key performance metrics continued to both the Chairman and I from a remuneration perspective will have some perform strongly, including increases in Return on Capital Employed: engagement with that Forum, which I very much look forward to.
Operating profit Margin: and Cash Conversion from 27.1% to 30.7%: The Committee believes that both its remuneration framework including 20.3% to 20.8%: and 67.0% to 81.4%, respectively, during the three year the incentives for further improving performance that have been awarded performance period to the end of 2016.
This improvement in financial during the year, together with the New Policy and the New Plan being performance has contributed, notwithstanding the market uncertainty proposed for future years, support the Companys strategy to deliver referred to above, to a c. 38% increase in Taylor Wimpeys share price enhanced returns to shareholders.
The Committee also believes that the over the same period from 111.5p on 31 December 2013 to 153.5p Annual Bonus Scheme payments and the level of vesting of awards under on 31 December 2016 and a total shareholder return of c. 56% over the the Existing Performance Share Plan reect the Companys success to date same period, which resulted in a significant increase in value for our in the delivery of that strategy.
shareholders commensurate with the level of the awards that have vested.
I do very much hope that you will again feel able to support the level of The Committee believes that the level of achievement under both the remuneration paid with respect to 2016, our remuneration proposals for Annual Bonus Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan reects the 2017, and both the proposed New Policy and New Plan at this years Companys excellent underlying performance, which is described in the Annual General Meeting.
Chairmans Statement on page 12 and the Chief Executives Statement on page 18.
The operation of the incentive arrangements for 2017 will be unchanged structurally.
With regard to the Annual Bonus Scheme, this scheme will retain EBIT, ROCE RONOA see page 88, Cash Conversion and KATE BARKER Customer Service as measures with the same metrics and weighting.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 80 Taylor Wimpey plc Introduction The main changes proposed in the New Policy, the full text of which is set out on pages 82 to 84, are, for convenience, summarised below: This Report has been prepared to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation, including the Large The formal inclusion of malus and clawback provisions into the policy and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports table in respect of the Performance Share Plan: Regulations 2008 as amended Regulations, and has also been The reduction in the maximum pension contribution for future prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Directors: Governance Code the Code and the UK Listing Authority ListingRules.
The inclusion of reimbursement of reasonable business-related This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee expenses incurred by Non Executive Directors: on behalf of the Board.
The introduction of the New Performance Share Plan the New Plan The 2016 Remuneration Report includes disclosures which reect based on the Existing Plan, which is also in the form of a performance in full the Regulations on remuneration reporting, divided into share plan.
two sections: Malus and clawback provisions have applied to Annual Bonus Scheme awards for a number of years and more recently to awards made under Remuneration Policy Report: this sets out details of the new the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Where there has been misstatement of Remuneration Policy, describing the framework within which the results, error in calculating the incentive payment, or misconduct on the Company remunerates its Executive Directors and other senior part of the individual, the Committee has the ability to seek to recover any executives subject to shareholder approval.
If approved by overpaid bonus or share plan award.
This applies for a period of up to shareholders at the 2017 AGM, it will replace the Current Policy three years following the determination of the performance conditions approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will apply for a applying to the award and can be effected by reducing if necessary to period of three years from the date of the 2017 AGM or until a revised zero the payment or vesting of any future cash bonus or share plan award Policy is approved by shareholders if sooner.
Any existing remuneration or by requiring the individual to repay the overpaid amount.
commitments or contractual arrangements such as historical share The Remuneration Policy Report as approved by shareholders at the awards, agreed prior to the approval and implementation of this Policy Companys 2014 AGM is set out on the Companys website at in accordance with any policy in place at the time, namely before www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporate-governance 27 April 2017, will be honoured in accordance with their original terms.
The Companys proposed New Policy appears on pages 82 to 84.
Annual Report on Remuneration: this sets out how the Companys existing Remuneration Policy was applied during 2016 and how Policy overview the New Policy will be implemented in 2017, subject to shareholder A key part of the Committees role is to ensure that the remuneration approval of the New Policy at the 2017 AGM.
The Annual Report on of Executive Directors and senior management is aligned to the Remuneration will be subject to an advisory resolution at the AGM on Companys strategic objectives.
It is, of course, key that the Company 27 April 2017.
Details of the resolution and its status as an advisory is able to attract and retain leaders who are focused and also appropriately vote are set out in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on page 154. incentivised to deliver the Companys strategic objectives within a framework which is aligned with the interests of the Companys The Regulations require that the Companys auditors report to shareholders.
This alignment is achieved through a combination of deferral shareholders on certain parts of this Report and state whether into shares of a percentage of the Annual Bonus Scheme: a retention in their opinion those parts have been properly prepared in accordance period for vested long term incentive awards: and share ownership with the requirements.
The Remuneration Policy Report, which describes guidelines which require executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey the Committees current Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and shares, either directly or by retaining vested long term incentive share which has applied since its approval by shareholders on 17 April 2014, awards.
These guidelines, which the Committee reviews on a regular contains unaudited information.
Some elements of the Annual Report on basis, require Executive Directors to put in place a plan to accumulate Remuneration, which describes how the Committee has implemented a holding in the Company of twice their basic salary within a its existing policy in 2016, contain audited information.
Remuneration Policy Report The Committees Remuneration Policy ensures that a significant percentage of the overall package of Executive Directors and senior Unaudited information management remains at risk.
With all packages for Executive Directors This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 substantially geared towards meeting targets set under the annual bonus and long term incentive schemes, the Committee believes that the pay of Schedule 8 set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
and benets of its Executive Directors and senior management adequately takes account of reward versus risk.
The Companys existing Remuneration Policy was subject to a binding shareholder voteat the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company In line with The Investment Associations Guidelines on Responsible andwas approved by 98% of shareholders who voted.
Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management The Company is proposing to shareholders the New Policy at the will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by forthcoming 2017 AGM, in order to meet the requirement for such policies inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, to be submitted to shareholders at least every three years.
The New Policy the Committee under its terms of reference may, where it considers is again designed to ensure that the remuneration framework will support appropriate, take ESG matters into account when considering the and drive the Taylor Wimpey strategy forward by both challenging and overall remuneration structure.
motivating the Executive Directors and Senior Management Team to deliver it and drive value for our shareholders.
Details of the proposed The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration New Policy and a comparison with the Current Policy are set out on arrangements, which are all very carefully considered, will encourage pages 82 to 84. inappropriate risk taking or behaviour by any executive.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure The maximum annual salary increase will not Company executives of a suitable that salaries remain competitive with external normally exceed the average increase which and individual calibre for the role and market practices and are competitive when applies across the wider workforce.
However, performance are duties required.
measured against FTSE peers other non-financial larger increases may be awarded in certain factors considered companies of a similar size in terms of market circumstances including but not limited to: when reviewing capitalisation and other large UK housebuilders.
increase in scope or responsibilities of There is no automatic entitlement to an increase the role: each year.
to apply salary progression for a newly Takes into account the following: recently appointed Director: and the performance, role and responsibility of each where the Directors salary individual Director: has fallen signicantly below the market positioning.
the economic climate, general market conditions and the performance of the Company: the level of pay awards across the rest of the business: and salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Chairman and The Chairmans and Fees consist of a single consolidated fee for Aggregate annual limit of N A Non Executive NonExecutive Directors the Chairman plus the payment of a cash amount 1 million imposed by the 1 Director fees fees should be in line with to cover his ofce expenses, an annual fee for the Articles of Association.
recognised best practice other Non Executives and additional fees for the and be sufficient to attract Chairman of the Audit Committee and the and retain high calibre Remuneration Committee.
An additional fee is also nonexecutives.
paid to the Senior Independent Director in recognition of the responsibilities of that role.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non executive, taking into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of the Nomination Committee and or the Audit Committee and or Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year.
Takes into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, benets-in-kind or pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to participate in the Companys private medical insurance scheme.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon which are determined to be a taxable benefit, can be reimbursed.
Other benets, Provides a competitive The main benets offered include: Life assurance of up to four times basic salary N A including package of benets to and a pension of up to two-thirds of the company-provided car or a cash allowance benetsassist with recruitment members entitlement for a spouse on death in lieu: in-kind and retention of staff.
in service, or in retirement, are provided, provision of a fuel card: together with a childrens allowance of up to life assurance: 100% of the dependants pension for three or more eligible children.
The cost of these private medical insurance: and benets is not predetermined.
a 5% discount on the price of a new or part The value of a company-provided car or a cash exchange home acquired from the Group in allowance in lieu is of a level appropriate to the the UK or Spain.
individuals role and is subject to review from Benets-in-kind are not pensionable.
The fuel card covers the cost of all fuel, for both business and personal use.
For home purchases, the price discount is calculated at the plot release price less the average discount to third party buyers for that house type on that development, less a further 5% employee discount.
No more than one home per annum can be acquired at a discount under the scheme.
82 Taylor Wimpey plc Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual Bonus Rewards the achievement Bonus awards are determined by the Committee The maximum Annual Bonus The Annual Bonus Scheme Scheme of stretching objectives that after the year end, based on annual performance Scheme opportunity for Executive measures are based support the Companys against targets set at the beginning of each year.
Directors is set at 150% of base on a scorecard of designated annual and strategic goals.
Target is set at 75% of salary key annual financial, operational One-third of any bonus payable is deferred into and threshold at 0%.
and environmental measures Compulsory deferral in shares for three years and held in trust.
No further and the measures for 2017 are shares with no matching performance conditions apply.
described in the Annual Report is designed to further align Dividends or other distributions will accrue in on Remuneration.
the interests of Directors favour of participants during the three year deferral with shareholders.
The Committee may vary period and will be received with any shares that the metrics and weightings vest after the applicable deferral period.
from year to year according A malus and clawback mechanism applies to all to strategy and the market, participants in the event of a material misstatement however financial measures of the Groups accounts and also for other dened will normally have the most reasons.
The period of the clawback is three significant weighting.
years from the date of payment.
No element of the Annual Bonus Scheme is pensionable.
Long Term Annual grants of shareExecutive Directors and other designated The maximum award currently The targets and weightings for Incentive Plan based long term incentives senior executives can receive annual awards in performance shares is normally 2017 are described in the Annual Existing Plan assist with retention and the of performance shares.
over shares with a face value of Report on Remuneration.
incentivisation and 200% of base salary.
In exceptional Awards of performance shares provide alignment The Committee may vary the motivation of senior circumstances this can be increased with shareholders as they deliver subject to measures that are included executives to achieve returns up to 300%.
meeting performance conditions the full value in the plan and the weightings for shareholders through the of the shares, which can increase and decrease between the measures from inclusion of relative Total over the three year performance period.
Any changes to Shareholder Return TSR the metrics would be subject Dividends or other distributions will accrue as a measure, driving further to prior consultation with the for Directors during the performance and holding UK operating margin Companys major shareholders.
periods and will be received with any shares that progression and improving vest in favour of participants after the applicable Awards vest 20% for threshold return on net operating performance period.
performance and 100% for assets through the cycle.
maximum performance with The use of shares and a Performance measures are currently straight line vesting in between.
post-vesting shareholding measured over three financial years.
period helps align the A malus and clawback mechanism applies to all interests of senior executives participants in the event of a material misstatement with those of the Companys of the Groups accounts and also for other dened shareholders.
The period of the clawback is three years from the date of payment.
Pension The Company aims Pension benets for Executive Directors are Pete Redfern: cash allowances N A to provide competitive provided through one or more of the following of 20% of salary up to a scheme retirement benets that arrangements: specic cap and 25% of salary represent an appropriate above the cap.
4 Personal Choice Plan : level of cost and risk for James Jordan: cash allowances 5 3 the Groups shareholders.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme : of 20% of salary up to a scheme or as cash allowances.
specic cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
Ryan Mangold: 20% of salary, split between a cash allowance and Company pension contribution.
Company contributions to any pension scheme in respect of the recruitment of a new Executive Director will not exceed 20% of base salary per annum, which is the Company contribution rate for senior management.
A Salary Exchange Arrangement is available, allowing the sacrifice of a portion of salary, to be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets All-employee All employees including The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard Sharesave: Employees can elect N A share schemes Executive Directors are terms under which all UK employees with for a savings contract of either encouraged to become at least three months service can participate.
three or five years, with a maximum shareholders through the monthly saving set by legislation operation of all-employee or by HMRC.
Options can be share plans such as exercised during the six months the HMRC tax-advantaged following the end of the contract.
Sharesave plan and a Share SIP: Employees can elect to Incentive Plan SIP.
contribute an amount per month orper tax year by one or more lumpsums.
The maximum saving or contribution level is set by legislation or Government from time to time and the Committee reserves the right to increase contribution levels to reect any approved Government legislativechanges.
Shareholding Encourages greater levels of Executive Directors and senior executives are Executive Directors: 200% of N A guidelines shareholding and aligns expected to achieve and maintain a holding salary 100% within five years employees interests with of the Companys shares at least equal to a of appointment and balance by 2 those of shareholders.
significant proportion of their respective salary.. agreement with the Chairman 1.
The Company makes a contribution to the Chairmans ofce-related and other expenses, as reported on page 90.
Until the 200% target is achieved, an Executive Director will be required to retain in shares at least 50% of the net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the performance share plan or other share based Long Term Incentive Plan.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Schemes The Group has two principal UK pension schemes: Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan and Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The latter was created on 7 March 2013 and all members of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme and the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension & Life Assurance Fund, the two legacy dened benefit schemes, were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013.
Two Directors are members of the TWPS, which is closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan PCP The PCP was introduced on 1 April 2002.
It is a dened contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which all new eligible UK employees are invited to join.
All active members of the two legacy dened benefit arrangements were invited to join the PCP when those arrangements closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Executive section of the TWPS.
They have a Normal Retirement Age under the TWPS of 62.
Performance criteria pay charts 2017 The charts below illustrate the level and mix of remuneration based on the New Policy depending on the achievement of threshold, target and maximum for the Executive Directors under the policy.
Salary is 836,118, 420,240 and 388,198 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively with effect from 1 April 2017.
Benets are 50,000, 21,000 and 44,000 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
Pension is 201,500, 84,048 and 96,647 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
For the Annual Bonus Scheme the target and maximum award is 75% and 150% of salary, respectively.
For performance share awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan Existing Plan the target assumed for these purposes to be at threshold performance and maximum are 40% and 200% of salary, respectively.
84 Taylor Wimpey plc 000s Committee discretion the NEF which will work with members of the Group Management Team and build upon the existing regional Employee Consultative Committees.
The Committee fully recognises that the exercise of discretion must be During 2017, the NEF will receive updates and provide feedback and input undertaken in a very careful and considered way and that it is an area into specic matters such as remuneration, customer service and other that will quite rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders and other important operational matters.
It is intended that the Chairman and the stakeholders.
It is however also important for the Committee to retain Remuneration Committee Chairman will attend the NEF from time to time some discretion to make payments outside of its Remuneration Policy in and also seek feedback on specic topics via the Group Legal Director exceptional circumstances.
The Committee confirms that any exercise of and Company Secretary or other Group Management Team members discretion in such circumstances would be within the available discretions as appropriate.
set out in this Report and that the maximum levels available under any relevant plans would not be exceeded.
How performance measures were chosen With regard to the Annual Bonus Scheme and Performance Share Plan, The performance metrics that are used for each of the short and long term the Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a incentive plans have been selected to reect the Groups key strategic number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans goals and are designed to align the Directors interests with those of the but in all cases within the rules.
These include but are not limited to the Companys shareholders.
following matters with the maximum level of award restricted as set out The Annual Bonus Scheme performance metrics include a mix of in the Policy table on pages 82 to 84 : financial and non-financial metrics reecting the key annual priorities of Who participates in the plans: the Group.
The financial metrics will generally determine at least 50% The timing of grant of award and or payment: of the bonus and include profit before interest and tax as this reects the Companys strategic objective to increase profit.
The other financial The size of an award and or a payment, subject to the limits of metrics, selected on an annual basis, will be measurable and will ensure the rules: that executives are motivated to deliver across a scorecard of key Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event objectives.
The improvement of customer service remains an area of of a change of control or reconstruction: ongoing focus and the Remuneration Committee has therefore retained Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified it as a challenging measure.
categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: The performance conditions applicable to the Long Term Incentive Plan were selected by the Committee as they are consistent with the overall Discretion to dis-apply time pro-rating in the event of a change of longer term success of the Company.
TSR provides an external control or good leaver circumstances: assessment of the Companys performance in two ways.
Firstly, against Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, its competitors via an unweighted industry peer group and secondly, corporate restructuring, acquisition, divestment, change of control, relative TSR measured against an appropriate sector of the FTSE.
The special dividend or a change in prevailing market conditions : latter has progressed over recent years, in line with the improvement in The ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional the Companys share price and capitalisation, from the FTSE 250 for 2014 events so that they can still full their original purpose: and awards: through the 50 companies ranked immediately above and below Discretion to allow participants to sell, transfer, assign or dispose of the Company for 2015 awards: to the FTSE 100 for 2016 awards.
It also some or all of their shares in exceptional circumstances before the end aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by of the holding period, subject to such additional terms and conditions shareholders.
The ROCE and Cash Conversion targets ensure that that as the Committee may specify.
returns to shareholders and the generation of cash to fund them are the result of long term sustainable financial performance.
PBIT Margin is a key How shareholder views are taken into account indicator for investors and for the Companys strategy of driving margin rather than volume.
The Remuneration Committee appreciates and considers very seriously all shareholder feedback received in relation to remuneration each year The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and the and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
appropriateness of the performance targets each year.
Targets are set Shareholder views are key inputs when shaping the Remuneration Policy based on a sliding scale that takes account of internal planning and and the Committee welcomes any comment or feedback on any aspects external market expectations for the Company.
Only a modest level of of remuneration and will always consider and respond.
rewards are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of our The Committee regularly engages with its largest shareholders regarding challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
the ongoing Remuneration Policy and implementation and will take into account any feedback when determining any changes that might apply.
Additional information performance metrics for 2017 awards The last such consultation took place in December 2016 and included the proposed new Remuneration Policy and the performance targets and The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance metrics and weightings of the Annual Bonus Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan relative weightings for both the Annual Bonus Scheme annual cash bonus and salary proposals for 2017 to be proposed in line with the New Policy plan and the Existing Plan.
Those for the Annual Bonus Scheme remain being submitted to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
unchanged save for amending the targets.
The Committee follows the principles of good governance relating to For the Existing Plan, the two TSR measures are retained, versus FTSE Directors remuneration as set out in the Main Principles, Supporting 100 and a peer group, and continue to aggregate 50% of the performance Principles and Code Provisions of the Code.
The Committee reviews and target, reecting the importance of a direct link to shareholder interests.
takes into account any governance related developments and guidance The ROCE and Cash Conversion targets are also retained, but with lower that arise, on an ongoing basis.
weightings of 20% 2016 award: 25% and 15% 25% respectively.
This permits the addition of a fifth metric for 2017, namely, PBIT Margin, which How employees voice is taken into account is re-introduced at 15% of the award, having been replaced for the past two years by Cash Conversion.
Margin remains a key indicator for The Committee supports and welcomes the employee voice proposals investors and directly links to the Companys strategy of driving margin currently under consideration by the Government and in anticipation of rather than volume.
this, the Company is already putting in place a National Employee Forum 85 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External Non Executive Director positions In the case of an external hire, the Company may choose to buy-out any incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving Subject to Board approval and provided that such appointments fall within the previous employer.
This will only occur where the Company feels that the general requirements of the Code and do not give rise to any conict it is a necessary requirement to aid the recruitment.
The replacement issues which cannot be managed by the Board and the Executive value would be provided for, taking into account the form cash or shares Director, Executive Directors are permitted to take on non executive and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing positions with other companies.
Executive Directors are permitted to retain performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement their fees in respect of such positions.
Any such appointments would be share awards, if used, will be granted using Taylor Wimpeys existing share the subject of a public announcement to the London Stock Exchange.
plans wherever and to the extent possible, although in exceptional Pete Redfern is an independent non executive director on the Board of circumstances awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if Travis Perkins plc where he also serves on its Remuneration and Stay Safe necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
His current fees total 57,000 per annum 2015: 57,000. from the outset with shareholders, malus and clawback provisions may also apply where appropriate and the Committee may require new Remuneration Policy for the wider workforce directors to acquire Company shares up to a pre-agreed level.
When setting the policy for Executive Directors, the Committee is made Shareholders will be informed of any buy-out payments at the time fully aware of pay structures across the workforce.
In addition, the of appointment.
Committee will conduct a formal review of remuneration across the Group In the case of an internal hire including a promotion, as previously reported, and for all levels of employee every three years.
This review now coincides the Company will honour any commitments entered into prior to their with the work that is undertaken in connection with the renewal of the appointment to the Board even where it is not consistent with the Policy three year Remuneration Policy.
prevailing at the time such commitment is fullled.
Virtually all of the Companys employees participate in incentive Directors contracts arrangements.
Many employees can elect to take their performancerelated payment in shares rather than cash, further enhancing the link and It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts alignment between shareholder value and employee reward throughout of employment providing for a maximum of one years notice either way.
the Company, which both the Company and the Committee remain keen This meets the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Service contracts for all Executive Directors and letters of appointment for all Non Executive Directors are available for inspection as described in the The Company also offers both Sharesave and SIP schemes to all eligible Notice of Annual General Meeting.
UK employees with more than three months service.
Each of the Executive Directors service contracts provides for: In the past, the Company also operated the Land Value Plan LVP for senior divisional and functional roles with payouts in shares.
The LVP The payment of a base salary details of which are set out on operated from 2012 to 2014 with awards made to participants in each page 88 : year and was open to designated senior executives below Executive An expensed Company-provided car or a cash allowance in lieu: a Director level.
It was designed to reward participants for managing the fuel allowance: life assurance: and private medical insurance details landbank in a way which added value, through a combination of managing of which are set out on page 90 : and adding value to the existing land portfolio and buying land and adding Employers contribution to a pension scheme details of which are set value over and above the base case for each acquisition.
Performance out on page 90 : was measured over a three year period and awards to senior participants A notice period by either side of 12 months: were in shares which were required to then be retained for 12 months.
The LVP addressed a strategic imperative for the period in question and has A provision requiring a Director to mitigate losses on termination.
now been withdrawn, with participants instead considered for full The service contract for each of Pete Redfern and James Jordan participation in the Performance Share Plan.
No Executive Director additionally provides for a pension allowance.
Each service contract contains the following performance-related Remuneration Policy on recruitment or promotion provisions: Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Current Policy, Participation in the Annual Bonus Scheme: and taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Where Participation in one or more long term incentive plan.
appropriate, the Company may offer a below market salary initially with a view to making above market and workforce increases over a number of The Company has the right to terminate contracts by making a payment in years to reach the desired salary positioning, subject to individual and lieu of notice.
Any such payment will typically reect the individuals salary, Company performance.
Benets and pension will be provided in line with bonus, entitlement, benets in kind and pension entitlements.
The those offered to other Executive Directors, with relocation expenses Company will be mindful, on termination of an Executive Directors arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be employment, of the need to mitigate costs and phase payments, which considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their cease when the individual obtains an alternative role.
There are no change employment with the Company.
Legal fees and other costs incurred by the of control provisions that apply in relation to the service contract of any individual may also be paid by the Company, if considered appropriate and Executive Director.
Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including, but not limited The variable pay elements that may be offered will be subject to the to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no payment would usually be due maximum levels described in the policy table on pages 82 to 84. under the Annual Bonus Scheme unless the individual remains employed The Company may also apply different performance measures if it feels and is not under notice at the payment date.
Any payment to a good these appropriately meet the strategic objectives and aims of the leaver under the Annual Bonus Scheme would be based on an Company whilst incentivising the new appointment.
assessment of their and the Companys performance over the applicable period and pro-rated for the proportion of the Annual Bonus Scheme The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the Taylor Wimpey year worked.
plc Board or an external hire.
86 Taylor Wimpey plc Where an Executive Director is considered by the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has clearly dened terms of reference which Committee to be a good leaver, deferred bonus awards shares would are available on the Companys website at www.
In other circumstances, awards would lapse.
TheCommittees main responsibilities are to: With regard to long term incentive plan awards, the rules of the Performance Share Plan provide that other than in certain good leaver Establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for circumstances, awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an developing policy on executive remuneration and for determining the individual is a good leaver, the Committees normal policy is for the award remuneration packages of individual Directors, and to monitor and to vest on cessation of employment following the application of report on them.
performance targets no later than the normal vesting date of the award Determine the remuneration, including pension arrangements, of the and a pro-rata reduction to take account of the proportion of the Executive Directors.
applicable performance period outstanding post the cessation.
The Monitor and make recommendations in respect of remuneration for Committee has discretion to deem an individual to be a good leaver.
the tier of Senior Management one level below that of the Board.
The Committee also has discretion for both early vesting and reducing Approve annual and long term incentive arrangements together with the impact of pro-rating.
In doing so, it will take account of the reason for their targets and levels of awards.
the departure and the performance of the individual through to the time Determine the level of fees for the Chairman of the Board.
Select and appoint the external advisers to the Committee.
In situations where an Executive Director is dismissed, the Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments The Committee currently comprises three Independent Non Executive are made in good faith: Directors and also the Chairman of the Board.
Kate Barker is the Committee Chairman and the other members of the Committee are Kevin In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for Beeston, Angela Knight and Rob Rowley.
Membership of the Committee breach of such an obligation : is, and was throughout 2016, in line with the Code.
Kate Barker joined the By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection Committee on 17 April 2015 and was appointed Chairman on with the termination of a Directors ofce or employment: or 1 June 2016 in place of Margaret Ford who stood down from the Board Consistent with market practice to contribute towards the individuals on 1 November 2016.
Angela Knight was appointed to the Committee legal fees and fees for outplacement services.
The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings held during Directors are regulated by letters of appointment over a term of three 2016 appear on page 78. years, which are reviewed annually.
Both the Company and the No Director or other executive is involved in any decisions about aforementioned Directors have a notice period of six months and the his or her own specic remuneration.
Directors are not entitled to compensation on termination other than for the normal notice period if not worked out.
Advice to the Committee All Executive Directors are proposed for election or re-election at the 2017 The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and best Annual General Meeting and each will have at that date an unexpired practice in the eld of remuneration and it seeks advice from external service contract term of one year.
Service contracts and letters of appointment may be inspected at the The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers and Companys Registered Ofce during normal business hours.
during the year it continued to retain the services of New Bridge Street, part of Aon PLC.
Legacy arrangements New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Any commitment made which is consistent with the approved Code of Conduct.
It provides no other services to the Company.
Although Remuneration Policy in force at the time that commitment was made will the wider Aon PLC group of companies provide insurance broking and be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at until 27 March 2017 pension administration support services to the the time such commitment is fullled.
Company, the Committee is entirely satisfied that the provision of such services does not create any conicts of interest.
New Bridge Street was Annual Report on Remuneration Unaudited information appointed in February 2009 following a comprehensive tendering process.
This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers revised Schedule 8 set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies on an annual basis and is satisfied that the advice provided is objective and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, and and independent.
This Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
The information The Committee also receives legal advice from Slaughter and May, in the Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2016 section on the Companys solicitors, as and when necessary.
This generally relates pages 90 to 96 has been audited.
to technical advice on share schemes and also with regard to any senior appointments and termination arrangements.
The Committee Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Slaughter and May is objective and independent.
The role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is to recommend to the Board a strategy and framework for remuneration for The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2016 were: New Bridge Executive Directors and Senior Management in order to attract and retain Street 99,470 2015: 88,000 representing a full years appointment.
leaders who are focused and incentivised to deliver the Companys No significant amount of advice was sought from Slaughter and May strategic business priorities within a remuneration framework which is during the year.
aligned with the interests of our shareholders and thus designed to Pete Redfern the Chief Executive, James Jordan the Group Legal promote the long term success of the Company.
Director and Company Secretary, and the Group Human Resources Director each attend Committee meetings by invitation only but are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Chairman and Non Executive Directors The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice period by Notice period by Name Date of appointment as a Director Date of initial letter of appointment Term of appointment Company months Director months Kevin Beeston 1 July 2010 13 May 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Kate Barker 21 April 2011 7 February 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Mike Hussey 1 July 2011 30 June 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Angela Knight 1 November 2016 1 November 2016 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Rob Rowley 1 January 2010 1 December 2009 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Humphrey Singer 9 December 2015 9 December 2015 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2017 Weighting Below Maximum % of total threshold Threshold 100% Base Salary award 0% vesting 20% vesting vesting The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in February TSR v Direct Peer 30% Below Index Equal to Index 8% 2017 and has decided to award increases of 2% for each Executive Group Index Index p. a.
Director, with effect from 1 April 2017, in line with the equivalent general TSR v FTSE100 20% Less than Median Upper increase made to all employees subject to a very small number median Quartile of performance related exceptions.
Absolute ROCE in 2019 20% Less than 26% 26% 30% The salaries of the Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2017 will PBIT Margin in 2019 15% Less than 20% 20% 22% be as follows: Conversion of operating 15% Less than 65% 65% 75% Salary at Salary at profit into operating cash Name 1 April 2016 1 April 2017 Increase ow averaged over a Pete Redfern 819,724 836,118 2% three year performance Ryan Mangold 412,000 420,240 2% period 2017-2019 James Jordan 380,586 388,198 2% Awards vest on a straight line basis between these points.
The Direct Peer Group Index of housebuilders is an unweighted index comprised of Barratt Annual Bonus Scheme Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, The Annual Bonus Scheme performance metrics and their weightings Countryside Properties, Crest Nicholson, Galliford Try, Persimmon and for 2017 are shown in the table below.
The precise details of the targets Redrow.
The ROCE targets are based on the absolute ROCE in 2019. themselves are deemed to be commercially sensitive as they relate to the In order to reect the improving ROCE of the business, the 2017 ROCE current financial year.
However, detailed retrospective disclosure of the targets will be increased for a second year from 18% to 26% for the 2016 targets and performance against them will be provided in next years awards to 26% to 30% for the 2017 awards.
As explained on page 80, Remuneration Report in the usual way.
PBIT Margin will be reintroduced having been replaced in 2015 and 2016 by Cash Conversion with a weighting of 15%.
To enable this to be done, Measure Strategic objective Weighting Cash Conversion will have a reduced weighting from 25% to 15% and ROCE will have a reduced weighting from 25% to 20%.
Group EBIT To increase profit 40% Cash conversion Delivering sustainable growth 20% An underlying requirement for any vesting under the current sharebased incentive plans is that at the time of approving the vesting, ROCE Driving capital efficiency 20% the Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance Customer service Caring about our customers 20% of the Group.
This will include inter alia the Companys ROCE and Margin performance.
The above metrics and weightings are unchanged from the previous year and reect the Groups continuing focus on the key performance areas The Committee also retains the right as part of its overall discretion of earnings: cash generation: returns: and further improving customer to reduce the vesting of the award if it considers that volumes i. e. the services.
The Committee believes that these targets remain testing, as number of homes sold have not been satisfactory during the relevant evidenced by the performance outturn for 2016 of 80%.
ROCE is Return on Net Operating Assets calculated as operating profit Dividend equivalents and other distributions will accrue on all awards divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating assets, during the performance period and holding period and then be released which is in turn, dened as capital employed plus intangibles less tax in cash when, and to the extent that, the relevant awards vest.
Long Term Incentive Plans Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan PSP In accordance with the proposed New Policy and subject to shareholder approval of the New Plan at the 2017 AGM, long term incentives will only comprise a PSP award with a maximum award of 200% of base salary or 300% in exceptional circumstances.
The annual awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017 will be made under the Existing Performance Share Plan and will be subject to the following performance conditions: 88 Taylor Wimpey plc Non Executive Directors and Chairmans fees Fees of Non Executive Directors are determined by the Board in their absence taking into account the research carried out by independent remuneration consultants of fees paid to Non Executive Directors.
The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee in his absence.
A summary of the current fees is set out below.
The fees of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are reviewed every other year with any increases taking place with effect from 1 July.
The fees of the Non Executive Directors were reviewed in June 2016 after having remained unchanged since 2013.
After taking into account the independent advice received from New Bridge Street, it was agreed that the basic Non Executive Director fee would increase from 55,000 to 60,000 with effect from 1 July 2016: Annual Fees as at Annual Fees as at 1 April 2016 1 April 2017 Chairman 295,000 295,000 Basic Non Executive Director fee 55,000 60,000 Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 15,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 15,000 All Directors will submit themselves for election or re-election, as appropriate, at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors at the 2017 AGM will each have an unexpired service contract term of six months.
Payments to former Directors There were no payments to former Directors or payments for loss of ofce to Directors during 2016.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2016 Performance graph unaudited This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Taylor Wimpey plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 and in the average of the housebuilder index introduced for the 2012 Performance Share Plan awards onwards and as varied subsequently for the 2014 awards onwards.
co. uk Value rebased Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Chief Executive remuneration unaudited The table below shows the total remuneration gure for the Chief Executive over the same eight year period as is reected in the TSR graph on page 89.
The total remuneration gure includes the Annual Bonus Scheme and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The Annual Bonus Scheme and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Year ending 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 a b c Total Remuneration 000 1,657 1,542 1,674 3,009 6,724 6,250 6,888 3,764 d Annual Bonus Scheme % 100% 85% 82% 95% 90% 90% 78% 80% LTIP vesting % 0% 0% 0% 40% 85% 94% 100% 81% a As the 2012 PSP award did not vest until March 2015, the final value of the ROCE and Margin elements of this award were not known at the time the 2014 report was prepared and therefore an estimate of the share price at vesting was used.
The 2014 single gure includes 2,402,000 in respect of the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2012 PSP award and 1,613,115 in respect of the TSR elements of the 2011 PSP award as TSR was measured from date of grant for the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards.
b The 2015 single gure includes 2,143,460 in respect of the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2013 PSP award, 1,488,085 in respect of the TSR elements of the 2012 PSP award as TSR was measured from date of grant for the 2012 PSP award : and 1,428,977 in respect of the TSR elements of the 2013 PSP award as TSR was measured from 1 January 2013 for the 2013 PSP award.
c The 2015 gure has been restated using the actual share price on the date of vesting 1 March 2016 187.2p.
d A portion of the Annual Bonus is deferred into shares each year as stated on page 90. e In order to show a more meaningful comparison of the total gures, the chart included in the Chairmans letter on page 80 only includes the 2013 PSP award that vested in the 2015 gure but no part of the 2012 PSP award.
b The Company also paid nil 2015: 2,000 as a contribution towards the Chairmans annual ofce and related administration costs incurred in carrying out his role.
c One-third of any bonus payable is deferred into shares for three years.
No further performance conditions apply.
d This column shows the vesting during 2016 and 2015 of LTIPs as set out in the table at the top of page 92 and includes the dividends accrued during the performance period and payable on vesting.
The 2015 gures have been restated using the actual share price when the award vested on 1 March 2016. e These gures represent the cash allowances payable as described in the Remuneration Policy Pension section.
For Pete Redfern this is 20% of salary up to a scheme specic cap notional earnings cap and 25% of salary above the cap: for Ryan Mangold this is 20% of salary, split between a cash allowance and Company pension contribution as reported in Non-Group Pension Arrangements on page 96: and for James Jordan this is 20% of salary up to a scheme specic cap notional earnings cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
f These gures represent the value of the 20% discount on the Sharesave option price, matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan and the payment of Special Dividend accrued on Sharesave Options exercised by Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan during 2016 and grossed-up for Income Tax and National Insurance.
g The fees of the Non Executive Directors were increased by 5,000 per annum 2015: 0 with effect from 1 July 2016 as reported on page 89.
See note a on page 90 for an explanation on why more than one year of LTIP awards has been included in the single gure.
LTIP awards included in 2016 single figure Date of end of Share price % Vesting performance at vesting LTIP award Performance target Weighting max 100% period Date of vesting pence a a 2014 PSP TSR FTSE 20% 100% 31 12 2016 04 03 2017 148.98 a TSR Peer Group 30% 36.5% 31 12 2016 04 03 2017 148.98 a ROCE 25% 100% 31 12 2016 04 03 2017 148.98 a Margin 25% 100% 31 12 2016 04 03 2017 148.98 a The share price shown is the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2016.
Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of 2016 For 2016, the Committee measured performance against each individual performance target, which is directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy, as described in more detail on page 88, as follows: % of salary Summary % of % of salary deferred in Measure Strategic objective Weighting of targets Result maximum paid in cash shares EBIT To increase aggregate profit 40% Entry 10% vesting 704m 764m 40 26.67 13.33 Target 50% vesting 729m Stretch 100% vesting 754m ROCE Driving capital efficiency 20% Entry 10% vesting 27.5% 30.7% 20 13.33 6.67 Target 50% vesting 28.5% Stretch 100% vesting 29.5% Cash conversion Driving increased cash generation 20% Entry 10% vesting 60% 81.4% 20 13.33 6.67 and retention as Target 50% vesting 62.5% a proportion of PBIT Stretch 100% vesting 67.5% Customer Service Improving and delivering 20% Entry 10% vesting 83% 75.8% 0 0 0 customer service Target 50% vesting 86% Stretch 100% vesting 89% Total 100% 80 53.33 26.67 The amounts paid to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan in respect of 2016 are set out in the remuneration table on page 90.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Vesting of long term incentive awards in 2016 The performance period for all elements of the 2014 award ended on 31 December 2016 and the final measurement was undertaken based on this date, with the performance outcome being independently calculated by New Bridge Street and as part of the overall audit process.
The outcomes were as follows: Performance % of this award Award Measure Weighting Vesting scale achieved vesting a b th 4 March 2014 TSR FTSE 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at upper 48 out of 250 100% quartile.
Pro-rata vesting in between c TSR Peer 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at Index TSR, 100% vests 47% above Peer 36.5% Group at Index TSR 8% p. a. multiplicative.
Pro-rata vesting in between Group index a ROCE 25% No vesting below median, 20% vests at 10% ROCE, 100% vests 30.6% 100% at 20% ROCE.
Pro-rata vesting in between a Margin 25% No vesting below median, 20% vests at 14% margin, 100% vests 20.8% 100% at 18.5% margin.
Pro-rata vesting in between a All outcomes are as at 31 December 2016. b Median target is 104 ranking and upper quartile target is 52.25 ranking as averaged for dealing days in last three months of the performance period ended 31 December 2016. c Median is placing 48.9% and upper quartile is placing 87.6% as averaged for dealing days in last three months of the performance period ended 31 December 2016.
In deciding whether, and to what extent, any vesting of awards should take place under any LTIP, the Committee also considers the overall financial performance of the Company during the period.
The Committee has determined that the overall financial performance of the Company has been strong in respect of the performance periods of the above LTIPs and therefore determined that the 2014 LTIP should vest at 80.95% based on the achievement of three performance measures in full and one measure TSR Peer Group in part, as set out in the table above.
Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration unaudited 2016 2015 Change % profit before tax, interest and exceptional items 764.3m 637.0m 20.0 Dividends paid per ordinary share 12.02p 9.35p 28.6 interim 2016 interim 2015 0.53p 0.49p final 2016 final 2015 2.29p 1.18p special 2016 special 2015 9.2p 7.68p Employee pay in aggregate see Note 7 to the financial statements 200.6m 195.4m 2.7 Employee pay average per employee see Note 7 to the financial statements 38,422 37,191 3% Change in Chief Executive pay compared to Taylor Wimpey employees unaudited The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benets and annual bonus earned between 2015 and 2016 for the Chief Executive compared to the average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees during the year.
Annual Bonus Salary Benets Scheme Pete Redfern 3.0% 6.4% 2.6% Average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees 3.0% 3.0% 6% Directors share-based rewards and options Performance awards were made in the year under the TWPSP scheme as summarised below: % vesting at Number of Face value threshold Award Type shares % of salary Performance conditions Performance period performance Pete Redfern TWPSP Nil cost 888,720 1,591,698 25% on ROCE: 25% on cash 01 01 2016 31 12 2018 20% options 200% conversion: 20% on TSR v FTSE100: 30% on TSR v Peer Group index Ryan Mangold TWPSP Nil cost 446,677 799,999 As above As above As above options 200% James Jordan TWPSP Nil cost 412,619 739,001 As above As above As above options 200% 92 Taylor Wimpey plc Details of options and conditional awards over shares held by Directors who served during the year are as follows: Pete Redfern Dividend Date from Granted re-investment Outstanding which Outstanding Awarded in shares added Exercised shares as at Exercise Market price exercisable shares at 2016 during 2016 vested Lapsed 31 December price on exercise Date of capable of Plan 1 January 2016 number number number number 2016 pence pence grant vesting Expiry date Deferred a Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 269,339 269,339 206.0 25.03.13 26.03.16 25.09.16 Deferred a Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 315,024 22,736 337,760 25.03.14 26.03.17 25.09.17 Deferred a Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 232,967 16,815 249,782 25.03.15 26.03.18 25.09.18 Deferred a b Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 163,358 11,788 175,146 24.03.16 25.03.19 24.09.19 c e Performance Share Plan 1,859,095 1,859,095 186.6 06.03.13 06.03.16 05.09.16 c i e Performance Share Plan 1,222,746 1,222,746 04.03.14 04.03.17 03.09.17 c d Performance Share Plan 1,035,958 1,035,958 09.03.15 09.03.18 08.09.18 c f d Performance Share Plan 888,720 888,720 07.03.16 07.03.19 06.09.19 a h Sharesave Plan 63,331 63,331 24.04 149.7 11.10.11 01.12.16 31.05.17 a h Sharesave Plan 10,000 10,000 90.00 07.10.14 01.12.17 31.05.18 Total 5,008,460 1,052,078 51,339 2,191,765 3,920,112 Ryan Mangold Dividend Date from Granted re-investment Outstanding which Outstanding Awarded in shares added Exercised shares as at Exercise Market price exercisable shares at 2016 during 2016 vested Lapsed 31 December price on exercise Date of capable of Plan 1 January 2016 number number number number 2016 pence pence grant vesting Expiry date Deferred a Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 116,078 116,078 189.8 25.03.13 26.03.16 25.09.16 Deferred a Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 145,039 10,468 155,507 25.03.14 26.03.17 25.09.17 Deferred a Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 107,260 7,741 115,001 25.03.15 26.03.18 25.09.18 Deferred a b Shares Annual Bonus Scheme 82,105 5,926 88,031 24.03.16 25.03.19 24.09.19 c e Performance Share Plan 801,224 801,224 186.6 06.03.13 06.03.16 05.09.16 c i e Performance Share Plan 562,963 562,963 04.03.14 04.03.17 03.09.17 c d Performance Share Plan 476,965 476,965 09.03.15 09.03.18 08.09.18 c f d Performance Share Plan 446,677 446,677 07.03.16 07.03.19 06.09.19 a h Sharesave Plan 10,623 10,623 84.72 149.7 08.10.13 01.12.16 31.05.17 a h Sharesave Plan 10,000 10,000 90.00 07.10.14 01.12.17 31.05.18 a g h Sharesave Plan 6,876 6,876 130.88 05.10.16 01.12.19 31.05.20 Total 2,230,152 535,658 24,135 927,925 1,862,020 93 taylorwimpey.
b Market value per share on date of grant 24 March 2016 was 186.8 pence.
c Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
d Or later publication of the preliminary full year or half year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
e At later publication of the preliminary full year or half year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
f Market value per share on date of grant 7 March 2016 was 175.9 pence.
g Market value per share on date of the grant 5 October 2016 was 155.4 pence.
h These prices represent a 20% discount to market price at the offer date.
i A proportion of the award 19.05% will lapse, representing 232,933, 107,244 and 108,147 shares respectively for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan.
th Vesting will be 20% for the 2016 award 2015 award: 20% for threshold performance 50 percentile for TSR for FTSE Group, Index TSR for Housebuilder Index: 18% ROCE 2015 award: 16% : 65% cash conversion 2015 award: 65% and 100% 2015 award: 100% for upper quartile th performance 75 percentile for TSR vs FTSE Group: index 8% p. a. multiplicative for Housebuilder Index, 26% ROCE 2015 award: 24% : 65% cash conversion 2015 award: 70% with straight line vesting between these two thresholds.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share awards during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December 2016 was 153.5 pence and the range during the year was 115.8 pence to 210.3 pence.
Details of any share awards made to Executive Directors during 2017 will be included in the 2017 Remuneration Report.
Directors interests in shares of the Company Share ownership guidelines These Taylor Wimpey share ownership guidelines are designed to encourage greater levels of shareholding by executives at various levels within the Company for the purpose of alignment with the Companys shareholders which the Committee strongly believes is very important.
The guidelines cover the Executive Directors and those executives who participate in long term incentive plans with all participating executives required to build up shareholdings through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
The level of shareholding for Executive Directors to attain is two times base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve a holding equivalent to one times base salary within five years of their appointment and although there will be no set time limit for achieving a two times salary holding, each Executive Director is required to agree a personal plan with the Chairman on the target to be achieved within an agreed time frame.
Executive Directors are also required to retain at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the Companys Long Term Incentive Plans, until such time as the guidelines have been met.
Only beneficially owned shares count toward the guidelines, thus the Executive Directors deferred portion of Annual Bonus Scheme vestings are excluded.
Members of the Group Management Team GMT and other designated executives are currently expected to maintain a shareholding generally in direct proportion to their level of participation in the Companys discretionary share plans.
Each participant will be required to retain at least 50% of shares vesting or acquired net of taxes pursuant to the Companys Long Term Incentive Plans until such guidelines are met.
The Committee will keep the guidelines under regular review.
As mentioned earlier in this Report, any shares that vest under the 2014 PSP award must, as a standard requirement, be retained by executives for at least 12 months and for at least 24 months under later awards.
The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
94 Taylor Wimpey plc Directors interests in 1p ordinary shares held fully paid ordinary shares are as set out in the table below: beneficially owned Outstanding interests in share plans Share interests expressed as a percentage of salary Value of shares Value of shares at 1 1 16 at 31 12 16 Annual including any SIP shares including any SIP shares ordinary ordinary Bonus as at 31 12 16: salary as at 24 02 17: a e e b c d Director shares shares Scheme TWPSP TWSOP Sharesave as at 31 12 16 salary as at 1 4 17 Excluding Cash Including Cash Excluding Cash Including Cash Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme shares v the shares for shares v the shares for shareholding information shareholding information e e guidelines only guidelines only Kevin Beeston 1,155,562 1,155,562 Pete Redfern 3,330,956 1,740,528 404,224 3,147,424 10,000 326% 402% 368% 454% Ryan Mangold 892,399 966,388 190,026 1,486,605 16,876 360% 431% 407% 487% James Jordan 1,561,034 1,110,213 187,676 1,461,302 16,876 448% 523% 506% 592% Kate Barker 40,000 60,000 Mike Hussey 150,000 150,000 Angela Knight 0 0 Rob Rowley 200,000 200,000 Humphrey Singer 25,000 25,000 f Margaret Ford 84,940 112,460 f former Director a Or date of appointment.
b Only the net amount of shares has been included in this column.
c This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2016 towards the targets described above calculated on 2016 salary and at 31 December 2016 share price.
Salaries as at 31 December 2016 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan were 819,724, 412,000 and 380,586 respectively.
d This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2016 towards the targets described above calculated on 1 April 2017 salary and at 24 February 2017 share price.
Salaries as at 1 April 2017 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan will be 836,118 420,240 and 388,198 respectively.
e Including partnership and matching shares held under the Share Incentive Plan SIP described on page 84. f Shareholding as at 1 November 2016.
Note: The share price on 31 December 2016 and used in the above calculation was 153.5 pence per share and on 24 February 2017 was 177.1 pence per share.
Note: The above table does not include the deferral into shares of 33% of the 2016 Annual Bonus Scheme for any Executive Director.
The only changes to the Directors interests as set out above during the period between 31 December 2016 and 27 February 2017 were the regular monthly purchases of shares and 1:1 matching by the Company under the Share Incentive Plan by Pete Redfern 352 shares and James Jordan 352shares.
Directors pension entitlements Dened benefit schemes The Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The following table sets out the transfer value of their accrued benets under the TWPS calculated in a manner consistent with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
Increase decrease in Transfer value Increase in Transfer value Transfer value transfer value Increase in of accrued accrued gross of gross of from 31 12 15 transfer value pension Normal Accrued pension from Accrued Directors Directors to 31 12 16 from 31 12 15 increase retirement pension as at 31 12 15 to pension as at contributions at contributions at less Directors to 31 12 16 less Directors a b b c Director Age 31 12 15 31 12 16 31 12 16 31 12 16 31 12 15 contributions less ination contributions Pete Redfern 62 14,642 27 14,669 291,057 236,626 54,431 James Jordan 62 27,077 58 27,135 670,417 576,448 93,969 a The George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 so pension accrual ceased on that date.
Members of the GWSPS were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013 and there was no change to members benefit entitlement.
Pension accrual shown above is the amount which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 31 August 2010.
Pension benets include a two thirds spouses pension.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with ination limited each year to 5%.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with ination limited each year to 2.5%.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with ination subject to an overall cap of 5% per annum.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with ination subject to an overall cap of 2.5% per annum.
We have only taken into account dened benets accrued over the period to 31 August 2010 and have not included any Dened Contribution pension benets accrued after this date.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Regulations 2008. c The transfer value includes the effect of uctuations due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as financial market movements.
Note: The GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 and so no contributions were made after 31 August 2010.
There was no change to benets during the year and consequently no difference between the changes to any Directors pension benets in comparison with those of other employees.
co. uk Directors report: Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Non-Group pension arrangements Ryan Mangold has non-Group pension arrangements, to which contributions were paid by the Company as set out below: 2016 2015 Ryan Mangold 27,500 40,000 Notes: Ryan Mangold also received a pension allowance of 64,300 in 2016 2015: 37,787 in lieu of Company pension contributions over the Tapered Annual Allowance limit introduced in April 2016.
Ryan Mangold elected to have 10,000 2015: nil of the non-deferred portion of his Annual Bonus Scheme cash bonus, earned for 2015 performance and paid in 2016, paid as additional pension contribution.
Pete Redfern and James Jordan received cash allowances of 197,400 2015: 190,000 and 94,500 2015: 91,000 respectively in lieu of Company pensioncontributions.
Statement of shareholder voting unaudited At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the result of the shareholders vote on the Companys Remuneration Report for 2015 was: 2016 2015 Votes Votes For 1.9 billion 1.9 billion 98% 99% Against 30 million 18.9 million 2% 1% Withheld 3 million 35 million At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the result of the shareholders vote on the Companys existing Remuneration Policy was: 2014 Votes For 1.8 billion 98% Against 33 million 2% Withheld 44 million As stated earlier, the Remuneration Committee has consulted further with our shareholders on remuneration matters during the year.
We hope that shareholders will, again, support the new Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report at the AGM on 27 April 2017.
Approval This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: KATE BARKER 27 February 2017 96 Taylor Wimpey plc STATUTORY, REGULATORY AND OTHER INFORMATION Introduction The Directors together with their biographical information are shown on pages 54 and 55.
This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere in this Retirement and re-election Directors Report.
Certain other matters which are required to be reported The Company has determined that in accordance with the UK Corporate on appear in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts as Governance Code the Code, all Directors should seek election or detailed below: re-election, as appropriate, at this years AGM as explained in the Notes Page s in this to the Notice of Meeting and on page 62 of the General Board Matter Annual Report Governance Report.
An indication of likely future developments in the Each of the Directors proposed for election or re-election at the AGM is business of the Company and its subsidiaries being unanimously recommended by all of the other members of the appears in the Strategic Report 12 to 52 Board.
This recommendation follows the completion of the annual Board The Groups profit before taxation and the profit after evaluation process, which included a detailed appraisal of the Board, its taxation and minority interests appear in the Committees and also in respect of each Director, which in turn included consolidated income statement and in the Notes to 106 and 111 to a review of their respective time commitments.
The Board evaluation the accounts 153 process did not include Angela Knight as she was appointed to the Board at a time when the 2016 process was nearing conclusion.
Angela Knight The Companys Viability Statement 47 was, nevertheless, subject to a detailed appraisal of her suitability as part The Remuneration Report 78 to 96 of the appointment process and participated in the Board evaluation Details of the Companys long-term incentive discussions which took place at the December 2016 and February 2017 schemes as required by LR 9.4.
3 R are set out in Board meetings.
Further information relating to the evaluation, and the the Remuneration Report 78 to 96 process followed with regard to Angela Knights appointment, is set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 70.
The reporting on the Companys carbon footprint 36 A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, The Articles of Association of the Company further regulate the including branches outside the UK, principally appointment and removal of Directors, in addition to the Companies Act affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in 101 and 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association may the year 149 to 152 be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The various powers and responsibilities of the Directors are described in the Corporate Changes in asset values are set out in the Governance Report.
consolidated balance sheet and in the Notes to 108 and 111 to the accounts 153 Qualifying third party indemnity A detailed statement of the Groups treasury The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors and management and funding including information on ofcers and those of its Group companies, including the Trustee Directors the exposure of the Company in relation to the use of its Pension Trustee Company, against the financial exposure that they of financial instruments 127 to 130 may incur in the course of their professional duties as Directors and Details of an arrangement under which a ofcers of the Company and or its subsidiaries afliates.
The indemnity shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any has been put in place in accordance with section 234 of the Companies dividends, and where a shareholder has agreed to Act 2006 in respect of which the Company took advice from its corporate waive future dividends, details of such waiver lawyers, Slaughter and May.
together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review 98 Audit and auditor A statement that this Annual Report and Accounts Each Director has, at the date of approval of this Report, formally meets the requirements of Provision C. 1.1 of the UK confirmed that: Corporate Governance Code the Code, is set out To the best of his or her knowledge there is no relevant audit in the Corporate Governance Report 63 information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
He or she has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Directors Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit The following Directors held ofce throughout the year: information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Kevin Beeston, Chairman: This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Pete Redfern, Chief Executive: the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director: Deloitte LLP Deloitte have confirmed their willingness to continue in ofce James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary: as auditor of the Company.
Following a review by the Audit Committee of their effectiveness, details of which are set out on page 76, a resolution Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director: to re-appoint Deloitte will be proposed at the AGM.
Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director: It is the Companys general policy that its auditor will not carry out Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and the designated non-audit services except where it is appropriate to do so and in Senior Independent Director: and accordance with the Companys formal policy for the carrying out of such work.
In addition, and in line with the Code, the Committee takes into Humphrey Singer, Independent Non Executive Director.
account the relevant ethical and auditing professional standards guidance In addition to the above, Angela Knight was appointed to the Board as regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The an Independent Non Executive Director and Margaret Ford, Independent Company notes the new regulation set out on page 76 which will apply to Non Executive Director, stood down from the Board, in each case on the Company from 1 October 2017.
Any revision to current regulations or 1 November 2016. guidelines will be taken into account in framing the Companys policy going 97 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Directors report: Governance STATUTORY, REGULATORY AND OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED forward and reported on in future Annual Reports as appropriate.
Deloitte Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration provided non-audit services to the Group during the year within the policy Report on page 84.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts which hold framework as described in the Audit Committee Report, details of which shares on trust for employees under various share schemes, generally are set out in Note 6 on page 118. abstain from voting at shareholder general meetings in respect of shares held by them.
Annual General Meeting No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 27 April 2017 at The British Medical capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP.
Substantial interests Formal notice of the AGM including details of the special business being proposed is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 154 to 155 and on The persons set out in the table below have notied the Company the Companys website at www.
In line with recent pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their practice and good governance, voting on all resolutions at this years AGM interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
will again be conducted by way of a poll.
The Board believes that this At 27 February 2017, no change in these holdings had been notied nor, method of voting gives as many shareholders as possible the opportunity according to the Register of Members, did any other shareholder at that to have their votes counted as part of the process, whether their votes are date have a disclosable holding of the Companys issued share capital.
tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person at, the AGM.
Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, are Web communication shownin the Remuneration Report.
The Board strongly believes in thealignment of interests between senior management and the With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted web Companysshareholders.
The benets of web communication are that it: enables the Company to signicantly reduce its printing and Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at 27 February 2017 postage costs: Number of Percentage of enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day shares held issued voting Name millions share capital documents are published on the Companys website: and BlackRock, Inc. 182.5 5.58 reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and therefore helps to reduce the impact of printing, mailing and related The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 172.9 5.29 activities on the environment.
Legal & General Group Plc 98.5 3.02 Shareholder communications including the 2016 Annual Report and Standard Life Investments Limited 96.4 3.02 Accounts are available electronically through the Companys website.
Dividend Over 80% of the Companys shareholders use either electronic or web communication.
An interim ordinary dividend of 0.53 pence per ordinary share was paid on 7 October 2016 and the Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of The Company will of course continue to provide hard copy documentation 2.29 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, to those shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy to increases the total ordinary dividend for the year to 2.82 pence 2015: 1.67 do so.
Information relating to the recommended 2016 final ordinary dividend is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 14 and in the Registrar notes to resolution 2 on page 158 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual The Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Their details, together with General Meeting.
information on the services and facilities available to shareholders, are set out in the Shareholder Facilities section on page 164 and the inside back cover.
The Directors also recommend a special dividend for 2017 of 9.2 pence per ordinary share 2015: 9.2 pence.
Information relating to the Capital structure recommended 2017 special dividend is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 14 and in the notes to resolution 3 on page 158 in Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with information on the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 22 on page 136.
The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP, further details of which are set out on page 164 of this Annual Report.
The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, each of TheDRIP will operate automatically in respect of the 2016 final ordinary which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company dividend forthose shareholders who have previously registered a DRIP and such other rights and obligations as are set out in the Companys mandate unless varied by shareholders beforehand and also in respect Articles of Association, and Deferred Shares which carry no voting rights.
of all future dividends, including special dividends, until such time as each The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on 28 April 2016 for participating shareholder elects to withdraw from the DRIP, or the DRIP is the Company to purchase a maximum of 326,432,300 of its own shares suspended orterminated in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of remained valid at 31 December 2016.
The authority was not exercised the plan.
TheBoard will continue to keep the availability of the DRIP under during 2016 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Company has no current regularreview.
intention of exercising this authority but will nevertheless be seeking the Shareholders are again reminded to check their position with regard to any usual renewal of this authority at the AGM and the Board will continue to dividend mandates that are in place, should they either wish to participate keep the position under regular review.
The Company currently holds no in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates shares in treasury.
will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless or There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise of until revoked.
voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are governed by the The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the Trustee Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs over those aware of any agreement or agreements between holders of the Trusts combined holding of 10,219,541 shares.
Moredetails of these Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ESOTs are contained in Note 25 on pages 137 to 138. securities or on voting rights.
98 Taylor Wimpey plc Research and development Employee involvement and communication Our Research and Development initiatives Project 2020 continued We are proud of how committed our employees are to Taylor Wimpey and throughout 2016 with its focus on four key areas: Alternative Build the long term success of our business.
We strive to listen to and engage Methodology, Consumer Research, Smart Home Technologies and a with all staff and employees.
During 2016 we have continued to introduce Design Competition.
A key workstream of Project 2020 is the evaluation changes both nationally and locally following the feedback from the 2015 of alternative build methods and during the year we have trialled and Talkback Survey.
This has included enhanced maternity and paternity evaluated timber frame, closed panel timber frame, Structural Insulated benets, increased exible working arrangements, and an improved Panels, Porotherm thin joint masonry, Twin Wall Concrete and Lightweight learning and development offer.
We believe that inviting and listening to employee feedback is essential and During the course of 2017 and 2018 we plan to evaluate Cross Laminated we will be conducting a further survey in 2017 and the continued feedback Timber, Volumetric Pods, and Large Panel Aerated blocks.
The research from employees will further shape our plans and priorities for the future.
will enable us to assess the merits of the numerous alternatives that are We have active employee consultation committees in our regional available to us, in addition to the conventional masonry approach brick business units and communicate with employees via our half yearly and block.
Teamtalk employee magazine and regular Teamtalk Express email During 2016, we spent a considerable amount of time researching existing newsletter.
Our intranet includes a wide range of employee information and potential customers in an attempt to further enhance our knowledge from human resources policies to advice for employees on sustainable of customer lifestyles, customer needs, customer expectations and living.
It also includes an Open Door forum that puts employees directly customer aspirations.
Extensive research was done with our clients and in touch with our Chief Executive.
During 2015 we introduced a new sales executives, including an in depth post occupancy review.
This customer services forum on our intranet and invited employees to voice information has proved to be extremely useful and has been used in part their thoughts, concerns, ideas and initiatives on key customer questions.
to help produce the brief for the Design Competition which was launched Employees could post comments within the forum or send an email to our in Spring 2016.
Chief Executive or Customer Director.
In conjunction with the Royal Institute of British Architects RIBA we As reported elsewhere, the Company welcomes the employee voice launched a Design Competition with the aim of engaging with professional initiatives currently under consideration by the Government and in Architects to help us design our future house type range.
From the 120 anticipation of this, the Company is already putting in place a National entries received from 14 different countries, six nalists were chosen by the Employee Forum the NEF which will work with members of the Group judging panel.
The final entrants were interviewed and judged in December Management Team and build upon the existing regional Employee 2016 and the winning team, which has now been selected, will work with Consultative Committees as referred to below.
During 2017, the NEF us to build the prototype in 2018.
The judging panel consisted of Pete will receive updates and provide feedback and input into specic matters Redfern and the Companys Design Director and Sales Director, plus two such as remuneration, customer service and other important operational highly acclaimed judges appointed by RIBA.
It is intended that the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chairman will attend the NEF from time to time and also seek Energy efficiency and Smart Home Technologies feature highly in the feedback on specic topics via the Group Legal Director and Company requirements of our customers and future customers, and during 2016 Secretary or other Group Management Team members as appropriate.
we began to evaluate some of the leading smart energy systems such as Nest, Hive, Evo Home and Fibaro.
We are currently trialling products in The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular communication six of our subsidiaries, potentially with a view to a wider roll out in 2017. throughout the Group on both business-related issues and items of We are also looking at the voice activated smart technologies that are general interest.
There is a formal Employee Consultative Committee coming to the market.
Renewable energy remains a key area of focus and structure in place in all operations and elected representatives meet with particular interest was given to the launch in 2016 of the Zero Bills House management to consult on appropriate issues.
Intranet systems are at the Building Research Establishment in Watford.
We also attended continually updated which provide a valuable communication tool across Intersolar in Munich which is one of Europes largest annual renewable the Group and an important facility for providing employees with access to energy conventions specialising in Solar PV Electrical Energy a wide range of information.
Information is regularly cascaded throughout Storage Systems.
the Group via email including regular communications from the Chief Executive and via verbal briengs and management presentations.
The We continue to work on a number of additional sustainability initiatives Companys internal magazine provides a further communication option.
that relate to green infrastructure.
We have supported a further phase of development of our Carbon Futures approach to quantify the carbon We have also utilised social media to inform our employees of dioxide emissions for entire sites.
This approach takes into account the developments around the Company and to invite their feedback on them.
buildings but also the carbon absorption of green infrastructure throughout Our employees have enthusiastically engaged with this new internal the site, and will be extended to become a tool and to review the whole life communication channel and we have seen an increase in the sharing of of energy technologies.
We continue to partner in Newcastle Universitys best practice: employees interacting in a wider business sense: and the SUCCESS Sustainable Urban Carbon Capture: Engineering Soils for spread of knowledge around the Group.
Around half of our employees Climate Change project.
This project is investigating the performance of now post and engage on a regular basis and usage and membership is soils to act as a carbon sink and how to maximise sequestration of growing steadily.
atmospheric carbon dioxide through natural soil processes including The Company promotes employee share ownership as widely as possible Carbon Capture Gardens.
In addition to the various share-related reward plans described in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 96, the Company also offers a scheme whereby employees who do not participate in the Annual Bonus Scheme cash bonus scheme are offered the opportunity each year to exchange any cash bonus awarded for exceptional performance, into shares of the Company, offering a 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in shares and retained for a designated period.
The scheme has operated since 2012 and in 2016 resulted in 333,307 shares 2015: 481,160 being acquired by 281 employees 2015: 301.
