Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report The following report outlines Tescos Remuneration at a glance remuneration framework, how the The approach to remuneration throughout remuneration policy was implemented in Tesco is guided by a framework of common 2015 16 and how theCommittee intends principles, which are outlined below.
Reward objectives Reward principles Attract Competitive Sustainable Enable Tesco to recruit the right people We assess competitiveness on a total reward basis Reward is aligned with the business strategy, Reward reflects an individuals role, experience, reflects our performance, and is affordable Motivate performance and contribution Our reward framework is flexible to meet Incentivise colleagues to deliver our business Reward is set with reference to external market the changing needs of the business goals together practice and internal relativity We reward in a responsible way Recognise Simple Acknowledge individual contribution Reward is simple, clear and easy to understand and performance We avoid unnecessary complexity Reward is delivered accurately Align Create shareholder value and support Fair the achievement of business strategy Policies are transparent and applied consistently and equitably Retain Reward decisions are trusted and properly governed Foster loyalty in Tesco so that colleagues Reward is legal and compliant want to stay with us Overview of Executive Director remuneration The table below summarises key information relating to our remuneration policy and how it was implemented during the year.
The Remuneration Policy, which was approved atthe AGM held on 26 June 2015, is reprinted in full for reference from page 64.
Remuneration element and link How we implemented How we will implement the policy to strategy Key features of policy the policy in 2015 16 in 2016 17 Base salary Base salary is normally reviewed Executive Director salaries for 2015 16 Directors salaries are reviewed annually Supports the recruitment and annually with changes effective were as follows: with animplementation date of 1 July.
retention of Executive Directors from1July but may be reviewed CEO 1,250,000 of the calibre required to develop morefrequently if the Committee CFO 750,000 No increases will be made to salaries and deliver the strategy.
atthe salary review date 1 July 2016.
No increases were made to salaries atthe salary review date 1 July 2015.
Annual incentive The annual bonus is normally Maximum opportunity was asfollows: No changes are proposed for 2016 17.
Rewards Executive Directors for the delivered: CEO 250% of base salary delivery of annual financial, operational 50% in cash: and CFO 225% of base salary and strategic goals.
50% in shares deferred for three years.
The performance measures were: 50% sales: The 50% deferral into Company 30% operating profit: and shares provides alignment with 20% individual measures.
The malus and clawback provisions enable the Company to mitigate risk.
Long-term incentive Awards normally vest based on Maximum opportunity was as follows: Performance measures for the 2016 17 Rewards Executive Directors performance over a period of not less CEO 275% of base salary award will be: for achieving Tescos long-term than three years unless the Committee CFO 250% of base salary TSR 50% weighted index of FTSE350 strategy and creating sustainable determines otherwise.
Food & Drug retailers and FTSE350 shareholder value and aligns the The performance measures for the General Retailers.
economic interests of Executive The Committee has the discretion 2015 16 grant were: Cumulative Retail Cash Generated Directors andshareholders.
toamend the final vesting level if 70% relative TSR performance from Operations 30%.
itdoesnot consider that it reflects compared with a retail group: and Stakeholder metrics new measure theunderlying performance of 30% cumulative Retail Cash 20% : customers, suppliers theCompany.
Further details on the strategic alignment of these performance measures is providedoverleaf.
50 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
