Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Chairs introduction Deanna Dear Shareholder, Oppenheimer Remuneration I am pleased to introduce the Directors remuneration report for 2015 16.
The changes Committee inthis years report are all within the existing policy approved by over 96% of voting Chair shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Let me highlight the key remuneration outcomes andplans for the coming year.
2015 16 reward outcomes Stretching 2015 16 annual bonus targets were set last year in the context of significant uncertainty and volatility for both Tesco and the retail sector, at a time when nearly all In this section key indicators in the business were on a steep, negative trend.
In determining the final p. 48 Annual Subject to an advisory level of bonus payable, the Committee considered the wider performance of the Group remuneration report vote at the 2016 AGM and agreed management has reversed the negative trajectory and were making strong p. 64 Remuneration policy Approved at the progress in delivering the turnaround plan.
In particular, the Group has achieved increased 2015 AGM volumes and positive like-for-like sales, reduced costs, increased cash flow, and completed significant disposals and business restructuring to strengthen the balance sheet.
As a result, financial targets for sales and operating profit, representing 80% of the bonus, were met almost fully for both Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart.
In combination with strong performance against personal objectives from both of our Executive Directors as detailed on page 55 this means the 2015 16 annual bonus will pay out at 95.7% of the maximum fortheCEO and CFO respectively with 50% deferred into shares, in line with ourpolicy.
The Executive Directors believe that their remuneration should demonstrate their commitment to the business at this early stage of the turnaround.
As such, for the 2015 16 bonus, they offered to defer a further 50% of their cash bonus into shares, vesting on the earlier of three years or the resumption of dividend payments.
This increases to 75% the proportion of the bonus that is deferred into shares and creates a further direct alignment with shareholders through the link to resuming dividend payments and the long-term value creation opportunity of the business.
Future arrangements Remuneration framework for 2016 17 In the 2014 15 Directors remuneration report, the Committees stated intention was continue to closely toundertake a further review of incentives in 2015 16 to ensure future arrangements align to Tescos continue to closely align to Tescos long-term strategy and deliver value to shareholders and other key stakeholders.
long-term strategy We completed this review and, following discussions with our major shareholders, the Committee has decided that some changes to the remuneration of senior executives, including Executive Directors, were appropriate.
These changes apply to the operation of the Performance Share Plan only and are within existing policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
They are summarised below: Overall remuneration There are no changes to the overall % levels of remuneration.
Annual bonus The Committee believes that the current annual bonus plan measures, focused on sales, profit and individual measures, remain appropriate for 2016 17 and so no changes are to be made.
Performance Share Plan PSP The following changes have been made to the PSP for 2016 17 within the existing Remuneration Policy: We are changing the comparator group against which Total Shareholder Return TSR will be measured to asector-based index comprising constituents of the FTSE350 Food & Drug and FTSE350 General Retail sectors.
This ensures our measurement of comparative TSRperformance is more closely aligned to the competitive markets in which Tesco operates and reflects the intense focus the Board believes that Tesco needs to have within the challenging retail market at this time.
This also reflects feedback from shareholders last year, which expressed a preference for the use of well-established industry classifications in the selection of peers.
We have introduced a new component for the PSP relating to Tescos key stakeholder metrics of customers, suppliers, and colleagues, with a 20% weighting.
Building increased trust in these constituencies is critical to delivering our strategy and theimportance of this focus is reflected in the Big 6 KPIs on which Tesco regularly reports to shareholders.
The weighting of the relative TSR measure will therefore bereduced to 50% previously 70% asaresult of this change.
Retail cash generated from operations will be retained with a 30% weighting, asgenerating quality cash flow remains a key area of focus for the business and isameasure of performance that is critical to Tescos position as a long-term, sustainable retailer.
48 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
