THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report sets out Thomas Cooks revised Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
The Policy is subject to abindingShareholder vote at the Companys AGM on 9 February 2017, and subject to approval, will apply from this date.
The current Policy approved on 20 February 2014, can be found in the 2015AnnualReport and Accounts, available on the Companys website and will continue to apply until a new Policy is approved.
REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY AND PRINCIPLES Thomas Cook Group plcs Remuneration Policy supports the organisations overall remuneration philosophy of pay for performance, and is based on the following principles: Attracts and motivates: Drives performance: Provides balance: Creates long-term value: Attracts and motivates highFocuses Management on rigorous Is linked to the creation of longProvides an appropriate mix calibre talent without paying more execution of Thomas Cooks term sustainable value.
Through of fixed, short and long-term than is necessary.
The Policy strategy with the right behaviours long-term performance targets performance-related pay via simple shouldfacilitate delivery of a level in line with the Companys values.
Reflects the Companys of total remuneration which is Performance-related pay plans Remuneration should support the relentless focus on performance, competitive with companies of will provide meaningful reward to creation of long-term Shareholder preserves and enhances company asimilar size, international aspect Management, dependent upon the value and the building ofastrong reputation withoutencouraging and complexity, in the relevant satisfaction of challenging targets and sustainable future for Thomas excessive risk-taking.
which are critical to the delivery Cook, worthy of our customers and ofour business strategy.
SUMMARY OF MAIN CHANGES TO THE POLICY As noted in the Chairmans Statement, a review of the Policy has We have clarified that the vesting schedule may either be been undertaken.
The Committee has considered the views of various straight-line between threshold and maximum or alternatively an stakeholders including those of Shareholders and bodies that make intermediate target between threshold and maximum which would recommendations on corporate governance.
The revised Policy will be result in between 50% and 70% of the maximum award vesting.
presented to Shareholders for approval atthe 2017 AGM.
Where this is the case, there will normally be straight-line vesting between threshold and target and between target and maximum.
The changes made further align our new Policy with best practice and strengthen alignment of Executive Directors remuneration with 2.
Introduction of other best practice features the long-term success of Thomas Cook and our Shareholders.
We are Increased shareholding requirements of 100% to 200% of salary for also proposing the introduction of the SSIP, a long-term incentive Executive Directors, and formally included in the Policy.
plan which may be used on occasion instead of the PSP.
The major Introduction of a maximum cap of 30% of salary on the Employers changes to the Policy that have been made areset out below: pension contributions or cash equivalent.
Introduction of best practice features in the new PSP 3.
Introduction of the SSIP Introduction of a two-year holding period following the end of the This SSIP would allow the Committee to address near-term strategic three-year performance period, providing for a five-year time horizon objectives, assessed over a period of at least two years, whilst for long-term incentives.
maintaining a long-term time horizon with a TSR multiplier initial Reduction of the threshold vesting level of 30% to 25% of the awards may be increased or decreased measured over three maximum award.
Any shares vesting will also be subject to the additional The timing of vesting for good leavers amended so that awards two-year holding period following the end of the three-year TSR vest at the normal vesting date, providing for a wait and see performance period.
approach to provide alignment of the value existing participants The SSIP award would be granted instead of any award to be made will receive, and continued vested interest in the Companys to an Executive Director under the PSP in a particular year and performance after leaving, with the continuation of time pro-rating under no circumstances will a PSP and SSIP award be granted to an for good leavers Executive Director in respect of the same financial year.
Claw-back post-vesting provisions are included formally in the An Executive Director may only participate in the SSIP, at most, once Policy, and are now present across all our incentive plans.
It is not intended that an Executive Director will Policy amended to provide that at least 40% of a PSP award will receive a SSIP award in FY17.
be based on financial measures and at least 40% will be based on The key features of the SSIP are set out in the Policy table.
The remaining 20% may be based on either financial or share price-based measures.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 74 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE POLICY TABLE Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation Base salary Provides fixed remuneration for the Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually.
There is no automatic right to an increase each year.
role, which reflects the size and Consideration is typically given to a range of factors including: scope of the Executive Directors size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities: responsibilities.
performance and experience in the role: Attracts, motivates and retains the typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies of a similar size, international aspect and complexity in the high-calibre talent necessary to relevantmarket: deliver the business strategy.
the economic climate and market conditions in which the business operates in: and overall salary budgets and levels across the Group.
Retirement To provide competitive postP ayment may be made either into a pension plan for example, a defined contribution plan or into such other benefits retirement benefits arrangement the Committee considers has the same economic benefit or paid as a cash allowance with Company contributions set as a percentage of basic salary in lieu of any Company pension contributions.
Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent necessary to deliver the Peter Fankhauser also has a German pension provision relating to his employment with Thomas Cook prior to his business strategy.
appointment to the Thomas Cook Group Board which has been frozen at the level accrued to 26 November 2014 the date he was appointed CEO and will be payable from age 60.
Peter has the option to commute the annual pension S et at an appropriate level of risk and to a one-off lump sum payment at age 60.
If Peters employment is terminated without good cause, a pension may cost tothe Group.
Benefits Ensures the overall remuneration Benefits may include those currently available to Executive Directors including a car allowance, a travel allowance package is competitive.
or reimbursements, tax advice, private healthcare benefits for the Executive Directors and their immediate family, employee travel concessions and life assurance.
These are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they Attracts and retains the high-calibre provide a competitive remuneration package and facilitate the delivery of the business strategy.
talent necessary to deliver the business strategy.
Executive Directors will be entitled to take part in any all-employee benefits and share plans on the same basis as other employees.
The Company reserves the right to offer benefits to Executive Directors depending on their individual circumstances, which may include but are not limited to housing, travel, healthcare and other allowances.
In the case of non-UK Executive Directors, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard practice for that region.
Annual bonus Focuses Management on rigorous Measures and targets are set annually and payout levels are determined by the Committee after the year end execution of Thomas Cooks strategy based on performance against those targets.
The Committee has full discretion to amend the bonus payout upwards or downwards, if in its judgement any Rewards annual performance against formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the Company, taking challenging annual targets and key account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company.
performance indicators which are Executive Directors must defer at least one-third of their annual bonus into Company shares which then vest two critical to the delivery of our business years after the cash bonus payment date.
Claw-back and malus provisions will apply to the cash and deferred elements of the annual bonus as described in Compulsory deferral into the the notes to this table.
Companys shares provides a link to Eligibility for any bonus payment will be forfeited if the participant leaves employment before the cash bonus the creation of long-term sustainable payment date, or before the vesting date in the case of any deferred share award, unless in specific good leaver value, and therefore a retention circumstances.
Good leaver terms are described in more detail in the Service Contracts and Loss of Office Payments section of The claw-back and malus provisions this Policy.
enables the Company to mitigate risk.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 75 Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Whilst the Committee has not set a monetary maximum, ordinarily Performance, through our performance management process, is one of the key considerations in base salary increases will usually not exceed the average reviewing and setting salary.
increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
More significant increases may be made to salary levels in certain circumstances as required, for example, to reflect: increase in scope of role or responsibility: performance in role: and an Executive Director being moved to appropriate market positioning over time.
Contributions into any plan or paid as a cash allowance will be up N one.
to 30% of base salary per annum.
The Committee has not set a monetary maximum given the value N one.
of benefits will vary based on the individuals circumstances and reserves the right to provide such level of benefits as it considers appropriate to support the ongoing strategy of the Company.
For maximum performance: The Committee will have regard to various performance measures which will be determined by the Committee measured over the relevant financial year, when determining bonus outcomes.
No less than 70% of the award is based on financial measures and up to 30% of the award may be based on the achievement of other strategic or role-specific objectives, which may be financial or non-financial.
For achievement of a threshold performance level the minimum level of performance that results in any payment, no more than 20% of the maximum for each element of the bonus pays out.
For achievement of a mid performance level, no more than 60% of the maximum for each performance metric in relation to the bonus pays out.
For achievement of a maximum performance level 100% of the maximum pays out.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 76 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategic objectives Operation Long-term Focuses Management on rigorous An updated PSP is being presented to Shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Asummary of the key features of share-based execution of Thomas Cooks strategy the updated Plan is set out below: incentive plan over the longer term.
awards will vest dependent upon the achievement of performance conditions set by the Committee measured Rewards sustained performance over a performance period of at least three years: against challenging long-term targets awards made under the new PSP to be approved by Shareholders in 2017 will be subject to an additional holding and key performance indicators which period currently two years following the end of the performance period, unless the Committee determines are critical to the delivery of our 1 otherwise : business strategy.
the Committee has full discretion to amend the number of shares that vest upwards or downwards, if in its Long-term performance targets judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the and share-based remuneration Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company: and support the creation of long-term the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting unless in specific good leaver Shareholdervalue.
Good leaver terms are described in more detail in the Service Contracts and Loss of Office Payments section of this Policy.
Claw-back and malus provisions will apply as described in the notes to this table.
Strategic The new Strategic Share Incentive A new SSIP is being put forward for Shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
Asummary of the key features is set out share-based Plan SSIP provides focus on near below: award term strategic targets that are an individual Executive Director can only participate in the SSIP once every four years: important to the future strategic participation in the SSIP precludes participation in the PSP or any other long-term incentive plan in respect of success of Thomas Cook.
that particular financial year: Long-term TSR targets support an initial share based award may be made based on the achievement against predefined strategic performance the creation oflong-term target s assessed over a period of at least two financial years: Shareholdervalue.
the number of shares in the initial share based award will be determined following the assessment of the strategic target s : this initial share based award will be subject to a TSR multiplier measured over three years commencing in the year the individual is invited to participate in the SSIP: awards will be subject to an additional holding period following the end of the TSR performance period, unless the Committee determines otherwise: the Committee has full discretion to amend the level of vesting upwards or downwards, if in its judgment any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company: and the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before the initial share based award is made, unless there are specific good leaver circumstances.
If the participant leaves employment following the grant of the initial share based award, the award will subsist on its original terms unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Chairman and To reward individuals for fulfilling the The Committee is responsible for determining the fees for the Chairman of the Company.
The fees for the other Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
Director fees Attracts and retains individuals with The fee structure may include: the skills, experience and knowledge a basic fee: to contribute to aneffective Board.
additional fees for chairmanship or membership of Board Committees: additional fees for further responsibilities for example, Senior Independent Directorship : and travel and hotel costs that are deemed to be an employment benefit by the relevant tax authority may also be paid along with any associated tax liability.
1 The first awards made under the new 2017 PSP will be in the 2018 financial year.
As noted in the following Annual Report on Remuneration, the PSP awards due to be made in FY17 following the publication ofthis report will be made under the current PSP plan rules and will not be subject to an additional holding period.
PAYMENTS WHICH ARE NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITHTHE POLICY The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the 2014 AGM the date the Companys first Shareholder-approved directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Shareholder-approved Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 77 Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Under the Plan rules, the aggregate value of all awards made The performance measures for the PSP will be a combination of financial measures and share pricein respect of any financial year must not exceed 200% of base based measures, measured over at least a three-year performance period.
Normally, the weightings will salary.
be as follows: The normal maximum face value of awards is 150% of base salary.
at least 40% will be based on financial measures: However, the Committee has a discretion to award up to the Plan at least 40% will be based on share price-based measures: and rules maximum, when it believes the situation warrants a higher the remaining 20% may be based either on financial or share price-based measures.
The performance measures may be adjusted, following grant, by the Committee to ensure a consistent basis of calculation and to provide a fair reflection of the Companys performance.
For achievement of a threshold performance level which is the minimum level of performance that results in any part of an award vesting, no more than 25% of each respective element of the award will vest.
For achievement of a maximum performance level which is the highest level of performance that results in any additional vesting, 100% of each respective element of the award will vest.
The Committee may determine that a target level of performance is applicable to the award.
The target performance level will be between threshold and maximum performance levels and will be set in the context of the business plan.
For achievement of the target performance between 50% and 70% of each respective element of the award will vest.
Normally, there will be straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum, or when applicable, between threshold and target and between target and maximum.
An initial award of shares of up to 150% of base salary can be Awards will be subject to i a performance condition measuring strategic targets over at least two made dependent on the achievement against strategic targets.
years and ii a performance condition relating to the Companys TSR measured over a period of at least threeyears.
This initial award of shares may be increased or decreased by 50% dependent on TSR performance i. e. the overall maximum award For achievement of a threshold performance level against the strategic target which is the minimum size in respect of any financial year is 225% ofsalary.
level of performance that results in an initial award being made, no more than 25% ofthe maximum initial award will be made.
For achievement of a maximum performance level against the strategic targets which is the highest level of performance that results in an initial award being made, an award equal to 100% of the maximum initial award will be made.
The initial award can then be increased or decreased by 50% based on TSR performance ensuring that through the whole vesting period the award is subject to performance.
The maximum level of fees will not exceed the limit set out in the N one.
Companys Articles of Association and will be set at a level which theCommittee or the Board, as appropriate considers: reflects the time commitment and contribution that is expected from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: and appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies ofa similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 78 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Malus and claw-back may be applied in the following circumstances: EXPLANATORY DETAIL FOR FUTURE POLICY TABLE a material adverse misstatement or misrepresentation of the Common award terms Companys or any Group members financial statements: and or Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this the participant or their team having engaged in gross misconduct report may: or in conduct which resulted in significant losses, as determined by a be granted as conditional share awards or nil or nominal-cost the Committee: and or options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the Company having suffered serious reputational damage or the same economic effect: financial downturn, as determined by the Committee, as a result of b have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or any action or in the case of awards under the new PSP or SSIP, any substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the action or omission taken by the participant, or their team.
Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance Salary, pension and benefits are not subject to claw-back.
condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy: c incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional Shareholding requirements shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a on the shares under an award, that vest up to the time of vesting shareholding in the Company to a value of at least 200% of base or where the award is subject to a holding period, at the end of salary within a five-year period commencing on appointment as an the holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming that Executive Director.
the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a Unless the Committee determines otherwise, those Executive cumulative basis: Directors who do not at any point meet the shareholding d be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and requirements must hold any shares vesting under the Companys e be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share share plans until the requirements are met.
capital or any fide-merger, fide-listing, special dividend or other event Policy for the remuneration of employees generally that may affect the Companys share price.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group Explanation of chosen performance measures and the target based on the same principle of pay for performance.
Reward should setting process be achieved for delivery of our business strategy and should be Performance measures have been selected by the Committee to sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre talent, without reflect the targets and key performance indicators that are critical to paying more than is necessary, with remuneration based on the delivery of our business strategy as shown on page 70. market rates.
Challenging performance targets are set by the Committee each Thomas Cook has operations based in a number of different countries year for the annual Bonus Plan, PSP and when applicable, the SSIP.
and employees with different levels of skills and experience, and When setting these targets, the Committee will take into account whilst based on the over-arching principle of pay for performance, a number of different reference points, including the Companys reward policies may vary depending upon these factors.
business plan and consensus analyst forecasts of the Companys performance.
Full vesting will only occur for what the Committee APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION considers to be stretching performance against these targets.
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of new Executive Directors, the Committee will apply the following principles: Malus and Claw-back The remuneration package will be sufficient to attract, motivate and As highlighted in the Policy table, malus and claw-back arrangements retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the are in place.
The following elements of the remuneration package are business strategy.
subject to these provisions: The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than the cash part of the annual bonus will be subject to claw-back is necessary.
provisions for a period of at least two years following payment: In the next applicable Annual Remuneration Report, the t he unvested deferred annual bonus shares will be subject to malus Committee will explain to Shareholders the rationale for the provisions and: relevant arrangements the PSP and SSIP will be subject to malus and claw-back provisions until the end of any holding period for a period of five years from the grant of a PSP award, or in the case of the SSIP, the date the Executive Director was invited to participate in the SSIP.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 79 The following variations may be considered by the Committee for SERVICE CONTRACTS AND inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director: LOSSOFOFFICEPAYMENTS Executive Directors Element Approach Executive Directors have Company service contracts.
For Peter Initial An initial long-term incentive award may be made in Fankhauser and Michael Healy, the service contracts provide long-term line with the opportunity in the Policy table either for a six-month notice period, from both the Company and the incentive 200% under the PSP, or 150% under the SSIP with the Executive Director.
award opportunity to increase to 225% upon vesting subject to TSR performance.
If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be The Committee will ensure: made.
This may include base salary, pension and benefits.
The award is linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance targets.
The Committee has The extent to which any performance linked elements of an the flexibility to use different performance measures and Executive Directors remuneration package will be delivered will weightings to those set out in the Policytable.
depend on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure The award will be subject to the leaver provisions and whether the Committee considers the Executive Director set out in the Service contracts and loss of office to be a good leaver.
A good leaver scenario may constitute payments section.
circumstances where the Executive Director leaves because Initial The initial annual bonus opportunity will be in line with of disability, injury, ill-health, redundancy or retirement or the annual the opportunity of 150%, as set out in the Policy table.
Executive Directors employing company or business being sold out bonus The Committee will ensure the award is linked to the of the Group, for any other reason that the Committee determines opportunity achievement of appropriate and challenging performance appropriate, or on the Executive Directors death.
The Committee has the flexibility to use different If an Executive Director leaves as a good leaver during the annual performance measures and weightings to those set out bonus performance year or before the normal bonus payment in the Policy table.
date, a bonus payment in respect of the year may be made, which Compensation The terms of any compensation will be determined by taking will be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the performance year for forfeited into account the terms of any forfeited awards, including: elapsed and performance achieved at the end of the performance awards Performance achieved or likely to be achieved.
This bonus may be paid in such proportions of cash and The proportion of performance vesting period remaining.
shares as determined by the Committee and paid on the normal The form and timing of the original award.
Notice period The initial notice period may be longer than the Companys If the participant leaves as a good leaver before the end of the six-month Policy up to a maximum of 24 months.
deferral period, any unvested deferred bonus awards will vest at However, this will reduce by one month for every month the normal vesting date.
served, until the Companys Policy position is reached.
Any good leavers unvested awards under the PSP vest to Relocation Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate the extent determined by the Committee taking into account costs relocation costs, in line with market practice.
The Committee performance achieved against any relevant performance targets will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
and the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
SSIP awards will lapse if the individual leaves prior to the initial Under reporting regulations, Thomas Cook is required to set out share based award being made, unless in a good leaver scenario, the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a new defined for the purposes of the SSIP as death, ill-health, injury Executive Director in respect of their recruitment.
The Committee has or disability only.
If a participant in the SSIP leaves after the set this figure in line with the maximum allowed under the shortinitial share based award has already been made, the award will term and long-term incentive plans combined, being either 350% if continue to subsist on its original terms, unless the Committee a PSP award has been made, or 300% rising to a maximum of 375% determines otherwise.
based on the TSR multiplier if a SSIP has been made, in addition to Where PSP and SSIP awards are subject to an additional holding the maximum opportunity under the annual bonus.
This excludes the period, they will be released following the end of the holding period, value of any compensation for forfeited awards.
unless in the case of death when vesting will be accelerated.
Awards structured as options shall be exercisable for a period of six For individuals becoming Executive Directors as a result of an internal months or 12 months in the case of death from vesting or where promotion from within Thomas Cook or as a result of an acquisition, subject to a holding period, release.
any awards under other arrangements which were made prior to In the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company other joining the Board may be allowed to continue under the original than as part of an internal re-organisation of the Thomas Cook terms, or under a revised basis such as a roll-over into Thomas Cook Group, PSP and SSIP awards may vest to the extent determined shares if the Committee determines appropriate.
Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors will be determined in accordance with the Policy set out in the Policy table.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 80 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED by the Committee, taking into account the performance achieved OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS against any relevant performance targets and, the proportion of The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the the vesting period that has elapsed in the case of PSP awards and Group, of Executive Directors taking on external appointments as the period of time that has elapsed since grant in the case of SSIP Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to the approval of the Committee an awards where the strategic performance condition s have not yet Executive Director may accept such appointments at other companies been satisfied.
Vested awards will be released from any holding or other similar advisory or consultative roles.
The Committee has periods at the time of transaction.
Where a takeover occurs after set a limit of one external appointment for each Executive Director, an Executive Director has been invited to participate in the plan but to one FTSE 100 or 250 Company, or an international Company of prior to the grant of the initial share based award, the Committee a similar size.
The Board will review the time commitment of all may grant the individual an award which takes into account the outside appointments and ensure that it is satisfied that this will not Companys performance and the length of time the individual has negatively impact upon the Executive Directors time commitment to been a participant in the SSIP.
the performance of Thomas Cook duties.
Awards may alternatively be rolled over into new shares of an The Committee will allow Executive Directors to retain any acquiring company or at the Committees discretion be amended fees payable.
or allowed to subsist on their original terms.
In the event of any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS Committees opinion, may affect the Companys current or future ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY share price, awards may, at the Committees discretion, vest andbereleased on the same basis as for a takeover.
When setting the Policy for Executive Directors remuneration, The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments the Committee has regard to the pay and employment conditions in connection with an Executive Directors cessation of office elsewhere within the Group.
This includes consideration of: or employment where the payments are made in good faith in Salary increases for the general employee population discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages Overall spend on annual bonus for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or Participation levels in the annual bonus and any settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation long-term incentives of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Any such Company-wide benefit including pension offerings payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for Any other relevant factors as determined by the Committee.
outplacement assistance and or the Executive Directors legal and In order to take into account the views of the general employee or professional advice fees in connection with their cessation of population when formulating Executive Director pay Policy, the office or employment.
Committee may review information provided by the HR function Non-Executive Directors andfeedback from employee satisfaction surveys.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION pursuant to a letter of appointment.
The notice period for the Chairman is three months, and one month for the other Non-Executive OFSHAREHOLDERVIEWS Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election The Company is committed to ongoing engagement and seeks major by Shareholders at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors letters Shareholder views in advance of proposing significant changes to its of appointment continue until the date stated in their appointment remuneration policies.
letter unless they are terminated for cause, or on the notice period Throughout the year we engaged with our major Shareholders on stated, or if they are not re-elected at the AGM.
The Directors service the proposed changes to the Policy, which provided us with valuable contracts and letters of appointment are kept for inspection by feedback and input into the development and improvement of the Shareholders at the Companys registered office.
These views were taken into consideration in respect of the forthcoming Policy changes and Shareholder views have been reflected in the new Policy.
We wrote to Shareholders representing over 75% of our Shareholder base over the summer, presenting our remuneration proposals and offering an opportunity to discuss them.
We subsequently met, or had discussions, with over 50% of our Shareholder base to discuss the proposals.
All responses were presented to the Committee for consideration and Shareholders received a follow up response with the opportunity to discuss further with us.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 81 ILLUSTRATIVE PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS This section illustrates the levels of remuneration that may be received by the current Executive Directors in the first year of the new Policy being implemented FY17.
Their remuneration is set in accordance with the revised Policy which is being presented for Shareholder approval at the February 2017 AGM.
The charts below show three scenarios: a fixed pay, comprising of base salary, benefits and pension, b mid and c maximum of overall potential: CEO Peter Fankhauser Total remuneration 000 CFO Michael Healy Total remuneration 000 4,000 2,500 2,281 3,500 3,199 2,000 3,000 1,644 35% 2,500 2,312 36% 1,500 2,000 29% 30% 1,000 1,500 35% 33% 29% 689 982 27% 1,000 500 500 100% 42% 30% 100% 42% 31% 0 0 a Fixed b Mid c Maximum a Fixed b Mid c Maximum Total fixed Annual bonus PSP Total fixed Annual bonus PSP In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: a Fixed Based on fixed pay being received only, for example, base salary, benefits andpension.
This is calculated as follows: Base salary at the date of this report.
Benefits are based on the amount shown in the single figure table inthisyears Annual Report on remuneration.
Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against base salary as at the date of this report.
Base Salary 000s Benefits 000s Pension 000s Total fixed 000s CEO 704 67 211 982 CFO 531 25 133 689 b Mid If Performance is in line the Companys expectations: Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for on-target performance, based on a maximum annual eligibility of 150% of salary A PSP award with a face value of 165% of base salary for the CEO and 150% of base salary for the CFO, in line with the proposed awards for FY17, pays out 60% of maximum, being on-target performance.
c Maximum If performance is in line with the maximum eligibility levels: Full pay-out of annual bonus, for example, 150% of salary with stretching performance achieved.
A PSP award with a face value of 165% of base salary for the CEO and 150% of base salary for the CFO, in line with the proposed awards for FY17, pays out at 100% of maximum in line with stretching performance.
Note: As required by the regulations, Performance Share Plan awards and amounts included within the bonus which have been deferred into shares are set out at face value, with no share price growth assumptions.
The Policy as set out in this section, is presented for Shareholder approval at the Companys AGM in February 2017.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 82 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee presents its Annual Report on Directors Remuneration, which is set out within this section.
Decisions taken on remuneration during the year are in line with our existing Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved at our 2014 AGM with 98.9% of all votes cast in favour of the Policy.
The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it deems CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS beneficial, to assist it in reviewing matters for consideration.
RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Individuals who have provided support and advice to the Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending during the year include the Chairman of the Board, Group General to the Board the Policy for Executive Directors and for setting the Counsel and Company Secretary, Group & UK HR Director, Group Head remuneration packages for each Executive Director.
of Reward, Executive Remuneration Manager and a representative The Committee also has input into the remuneration packages of the from Deloitte LLP, the Committees independent external adviser.
Group Management Committee GMC in conjunction with the CEO, Warren Tucker, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is also and has oversight of the Policy and remuneration packages for other a member of the Audit Committee and, as such, ensures there senior leaders with particular focus on the variable pay elements, is knowledge and coordination in respect of risk and accounting ensuring incentives are consistently applied beyond the CEO and CFO, issues.
No Director or senior executive is present at the section and to ensure the execution of the strategy throughout all levels of of the meeting when their own remuneration arrangements are the organisation.
The aim of the Committee is to align Remuneration Policy to The following pages set out the remuneration of the Executive the overall strategy of the Thomas Cook Group, and to ensure Directors during FY16, and the Committees intended approach remuneration reflects our Shareholders and customers interests, for FY17.
governed by our Policy and its philosophy and principles.
During the year, the Committee had four scheduled meetings, and met for a fifth time during the summer to discuss and consider feedback received to date from the Shareholder consultation that was taking place at that time.
At the end of each financial year at the Committees meeting in September a review is undertaken of activities against its terms of reference available on the Thomas Cook Group plc website to ensure the Committee is properly fulfilling its duties and obligations.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 83 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION AUDITED The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 30 September 2015 and 2016: 3 4 5 Salary fees Benefits Group Bonus Plan PSP Pension Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 FY16 FY15 Executive Directors 1 Peter Fankhauser 697 585 67 30 236 605 2,902 209 175 1,209 4,296 Michael Healy 525 515 25 24 194 533 2,462 131 129 876 3,663 Non-Executive Directors Frank Meysman 275 275 41 58 316 333 Dawn Airey 70 60 2 3 72 63 Annet Aris 60 60 6 5 66 65 Emre Berkin 70 70 6 6 76 76 2 Lesley Knox 35 1 36 Warren Tucker 80 80 8 5 88 85 Martine Verluyten 80 80 4 4 84 84 Notes: 1 Peter Fankhauser was appointed to the Board with effect from 26 November 2014.
His FY15 base salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus relate to the period he served as an Executive Director.
2 Lesley Knox was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2016.
3 Executive benefits paid includes car allowance, healthcare, life assurance, tax advice for Peter Fankhauser only, and expenses which are chargeable to income tax.
Non-executive benefits relates only to travel and accommodation expenses which are chargeable to UK income tax or would be if the individual were resident in the UK.
The increase in the benefits figure for Peter Fankhauser between FY15 and FY16 is firstly due to the FY15 figure being based on 10 months, reflecting Peter Fankhausers tenure as CEO.
The FY16 benefits figure for Peter Fankhauser has secondly increased due to an increase in premiums for private health insurance and life assurance, and largely due to tax advice relating to Peters expatriate arrangement from 2013-2015 being concluded and invoiced during FY16.
The tax advice paid for by the Company, is grossed up to cover tax and social security due on this benefit.
It is expected that this figure will reduce in FY17.
4 One-third of the bonus will be deferred into an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
5 The FY15 figure reflects the value of the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards which were released in July 2015 and the September 2012 PSP awards which were released in December 2015.
In last years Annual Report, in accordance with the regulations, the value of the September 2012 PSP award was estimated, using the three-month average closing share price ending 30 September 2015 being 118.1 pence.
In accordance with the regulations, the valuation of the September 2012 PSP awards has been restated in this years Annual Report on Remuneration using the actual market value of the shares on the day of vesting, being 119.85 pence.
The overall FY15 PSP figure and single figures have therefore been restated using the actual figures.
The value of the share award shown for Peter Fankhauser in FY15 reflects the full award which was granted to Peter prior to his appointment as CEO.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES RELATING TOTHESINGLE FIGURE TABLE AUDITED Further information in respect of the base salary, pension, annual bonus and PSP amounts isshown below: Salary Pensions audited The table below shows Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healys base Currently, both Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy receive a salaries during FY16.
Salary increases were effective 1 April 2016. taxable cash allowance of an amount equivalent to 30% and 25% of base salary respectively.
These allowances are broadly in Salary at Salary at Percentage line with the equivalent maximum net contribution for UK-based 30 September 2016 30 September 2015 increase employees across the Group Head Office, UK&I and Airline segments.
These employees receive a maximum of up to 15% of salary from the Peter Fankhauser 703,800 690,000 2.0% Company in pension contributions, which are paid as gross employer Michael Healy 530,600 520,200 2.0% contributions into the Companys defined contribution pension plan.
The salary increases awarded to the Executive Directors were in line with the overall salary increase budget expressed as a percentage across the Group during the 2016 annual salary review and were in line with the level of increases awarded to the general employee population where individual performance was effective.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 84 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED The Board no longer considers the FY16 targets under the Plan to Group Bonus Plan audited be commercially sensitive and therefore as described earlier in the FY16 Group Bonus Plan, the Plan report, the Committee has brought forward the disclosure of targets The maximum Plan opportunity for both Peter Fankhauser and under the Plan.
This brings our disclosure practice in line with the Michael Healy was 150% of base salary, one-third of which is subject wider market and Shareholder expectations.
to deferral as shares for two years, subject to malus claw-back before the vesting date, as described on page 78.
CORE BONUS MEASURE DEFINITIONS As described in detail, on page 69 progress has been made against Group underlying EBIT: Earnings before interest and tax excluding strategic targets during the financial year, and to reflect achievement exceptional items measured on a constant currency basis.
against these targets for Executive Directors the level of payout Group Free Cash Flow: for the financial year before payments against the Plan will be 22.32% of the maximum bonus opportunity receipts in respect of tax and payments receipts associated with for Peter Fankhauser, and 24.32% of the maximum opportunity for exceptional items, where exceptional items include restructuring Michael Healy.
The FY16 bonus was subject to two financial hurdles.
If one hurdle was not met, any formulaic bonus out-turn would be reduced by 50%.
If both hurdles were not met, no bonus would Net Promoter Score NPS : NPS is the main customer key performance be paid.
The financial hurdles for FY16 were Group underlying EBIT indicator of the Group.
It shows the degree of customer loyalty and of 275m and Group Free Cash Flow of 127.5m, which were both recommendations by reference to responses from our customer satisfied.
The level at which these were set reflect 50% of the Group feedback survey when asked, How likely would you recommend Cash Flow target, and a minimum acceptable level of performance Thomas Cook to your friends & family.
It is calculated by taking the being approximately 80% of the threshold level in respect of Group percentage of promoters and deducting the percentage of detractors.
CEO Resulting level of award FY16 Threshold Target Stretch Performance of max % Measures Weighting 20% 60% 100% achieved opportunity 1 Group underlying EBIT constant currency 40% 340m 350m 360m 279m 0% Core Group Free Cash Flow 30% 205m 255m 305m 166m 0% Net Promoter Score 20% 38.67% 40.67% 42.67% 41.25% 14.32% Leadership: Core-Index Employee Satisfaction Score Thomas Cook Group 5% 73% 74% 75% 74% 3% Role-specific To achieve the execution of NUMO Signing of Webjet deal for Strategic progress in NUMO 5% ordelivera transformational deal complementarysun and beach product 5% Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 22.32% CFO Resulting level of award FY16 Threshold Target Stretch Performance of max % Measures Weighting 20% 60% 100% achieved opportunity 1 Group underlying EBIT constant currency 40% 340m 350m 360m 279m 0% Core Group Free Cash Flow 30% 205m 255m 305m 166m 0% Net Promoter Score 20% 38.67% 40.67% 42.67% 41.25% 14.32% Leadership: Core-Index Employee Satisfaction Score Group Finance 5% 67% 68% 69% 76% 5% 60m gross new substantial 63m gross NUMO benefits and signing of 30m costNUMO change in the Webjet deal for complementarysun & beach Strategic progress in NUMO 2.5% out benefits NUMOdirection product.
2.5% Role-specific Implementation of financial plan which resulted Develop financial plan that accelerates in securing 150m additional facilities, the a materiallowering of interest cost, buyback of 100m of our 2017 Bonds, with extension ofdebtmaturities and gross debt Financial Plan approved by the Board: additional facility to be used specifically to reduction 2.5% implementation commenced, and completion.
address our maturing June 2017 Sterling Bond.
2.5% Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 24.32% 1 As disclosed in prior years, bonus targets in relation to Group underlying EBIT are set on a fixed currency basis at the beginning of the performance period, therefore the achievement used for bonus purposes is different from the achievement stated earlier in the report.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 85 applied its judgement in making adjustments in line with the FY15 FY15 Group Bonus Plan Plan last year.
The targets are no longer considered commercially The Board has previously considered the FY15 targets to be sensitive and therefore these are set out below along with details commercially sensitive, and targets were therefore disclosed in of the performance achieved and the resulting bonus outcomes and the Annual Report following the year in which the targets relate.
This approach prevented a detailed explanation of how the Committee 1 Resulting level FY15 Threshold Target Strong Stretch Performance of award of max Measures Weighting 20% 60% 80% 100% achieved % opportunity CEO 2 Group underlying EBIT constant currency 25% 350m 365m 380m 430m 380m 20% Group cash conversion 25% 55% 60% 62.5% 70% 85% 25% Core New product revenue gross 10% 750m 900m 974m 1,047m 681m 0% Group web penetration 10% 41% 43% 44% 50% 40% 0% 3 Group cost-out 10% 440m 470m 500m 540m 550m 10% Group gross margin improvement 10% 22.5% 22.7% 22.8% 22.9% 22.6% 4% Organisation, people and strategy Organisation design: roles and responsibilities defined and in place under new operating model.
Role-specific Capability building and upskilling successfully resource IT Voyager 10% Android & lean roadmap, IT integration, digital innovation 10% Increase in employee satisfaction score, high performance programme, change agile and resilience culture Executive Committee effectiveness Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 69% 1 Resulting level FY15 Threshold Target Strong Stretch Performance of award of max Measures Weighting 20% 60% 80% 100% achieved % opportunity CFO 2 Group underlying EBIT constant currency 25% 350m 365m 380m 430m 380m 20% Group cash conversion 25% 55% 60% 62.5% 70% 85% 25% Core New product revenue gross 10% 750m 900m 974m 1,047m 681m 0% Group web penetration 10% 41% 43% 44% 50% 40% 0% 3 Group cost-out 10% 440m 470m 500m 540m 550m 10% Group gross margin improvement 10% 22.5% 22.7% 22.8% 22.9% 22.6% 4% Role-specific Working Capital Improvement 5% 40m 80m 85m 90m 117m 5% Refinancing Refinancing of debt Successful conclusion of bond refinancing or 5% 5% alternative by 30 06 2015: Completed Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 69% Notes: 1 The Committee was focused on ensuring that the outcomes under the FY15 Bonus Plan provided an appropriate balance between the financial performance of the business and the performance of Management and in order to achieve this balance the Committee made certain adjustments to the calculation of financial performance as described on the next page in more detail.
2 As disclosed in prior years, bonus targets in relation to Group underlying EBIT are set on a fixed currency basis at the beginning of the performance period, therefore the achievement used for bonus purposes is different from the achievement stated earlier in the report.
3 Adjusted to 510 million at actual exchange rates.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 86 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED The impact that this had on bonus outcomes was that for Executive Adjustments made in respect of FY15 performance Directors, the maximum bonus potential increased from 59% to 69%.
As described in the FY15 Directors Remuneration Report, when Other participants in the Plan were impacted by the same proportion.
determining bonus outcome for the year the Committee exercised its judgement to take into consideration the impact of the terrorist The formulaic calculations that the Company made in respect of the attack in Sousse, Tunisia that took place on 26 June 2015.
In the adjustments made to the bonus outcomes were checked by the hours and days following the horrifying attack, Thomas Cook acted Company-appointed auditors, .
quickly to ensure the safety of our customers, immediately making Performance Share Plan PSP 2013 awards arrangements for our customers in Tunisia to return home, and rebooking or refunding our customers that were due to travel to this PSP awards were made to Executive Directors in September 2013. destination in the coming days and weeks.
Following this crisis, we Performance conditions were FY16 Group underlying EBIT, FY16 Group took the decision to exit from this previously popular destination Cash Conversion, and an average share price target over the 30 days to remove the associated risk to our customers and employees.
following the announcement of FY16 results.
Putting safety and security first was our priority, however it came at As described in the Chairman of the Remuneration Committees a cost.
The impact of these events resulted in a 22 million reduction statement on page 69, the stretching Group underlying EBIT and in Group EBIT.
Group Cash Conversion targets as set in 2013 were ambitious and not It is within this context that the Committee applied its judgement, in achieved.
Whilst the 30-day period in which the share price condition accordance with the Plan rules and Shareholder approved Policy, to applies to has not yet completed, the Committee has determined make an adjustment for the financial impact in determining the bonus that this element of the award is unlikely to be met and therefore the outcome.
It was determined that a Group EBIT result of 380 million awards will lapse.
The performance conditions under the PSP awards instead of 358 million, as measured on a constant currency basis are set out below, in addition to the relevant outcomes against should be used to determine the outcome under the Group underlying each target.
EBIT measure of the annual bonus.
Threshold level of Maximum level of Level of Performance conditions for FY13 PSP awards Weighting vesting 30% vesting 100% Outcome vesting Share price: 30 trading days average for the period immediately following Estimated the preliminary announcement ofthe FY16 results 45% 225p 300p 225p 0% FY16 Group underlying EBIT 30% 475m 548m 308m 0% FY16 Group cash conversion 25% 70% 90% 50% 0% 0% This resulted in the number of shares vesting for each Executive Director as set out below: Director Date of grant Earliest vesting date Number of shares under award Number of shares vesting Peter Fankhauser 30 09 2013 30 09 2016 610,169 0 Michael Healy 30 09 2013 30 09 2016 610,169 0 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 87 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited PSP awards were made to Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy in FY16 equating to a face value of 150% of salary.
The awards are within our approved Policy and aim to align the performance of our Executive Directors with those of our Shareholders.
Details of the performance conditions can be found on page 92.
End of Number of Share price used Number of shares performance shares Face value Face value to calculate received if minimum 1 2 3 Director Type of award Plan Date of award period awarded of award of award award performance achieved Peter Fankhauser Conditional Share Award PSP 11 12 2015 30 09 2018 880,102 150% 1,035,000 117.6p 264,031 Michael Healy Conditional Share Award PSP 11 12 2015 30 09 2018 663,520 150% 780,300 117.6p 199,056 Notes: 1 Expressed as a % of base salary at the time of award.
2 The share price used to calculate the award was 117.6 pence being the average closing share price ofthethree days prior to grant.
3 Minimum performance is equal to 30% of maximum award.
Payments to past Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors have been appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment, which is available on request for inspection There were no payments made to past Directors during the year.
at the Companys registered office.
The appointments under Loss of office payments these letters continue until the expiry dates set out below unless terminated for cause or on the period of notice stated below: There were no loss of office payments made to past Directors during the year.
Date of latest Director letter of appointment Expiry date Notice period Current Executive Directors service contracts The dates of the service contracts for Peter Fankhauser and Frank Meysman 27 March 2013 N A 3 months Michael Healy are 23 February 2015 and 8 May 2012 respectively.
Dawn Airey 21 July 2016 11 April 2019 1 month Executive Directors have rolling service contracts terminable in line Annet Aris 30 April 2014 30 June 2017 1 month with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The service contracts are Emre Berkin 13 October 2015 30 October 2018 1 month available on request for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Lesley Knox 23 February 2016 28 February 2019 1 month Warren Tucker 22 September 2016 3 October 2019 1 month NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Martine Verluyten 8 May 2014 7 May 2017 1 month The Chairman is paid a fee of 275,000 per annum.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual basic fee, plus EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS additional feesfor the chairing of Board Committees.
Executive Directors currently do not hold any external appointments.
The annual rates of Non-Executive Directors fees for FY16 are shown in the table below: Annual fees Position 000 Non-Executive Director 60 Additional fee for the Chair of the Audit Committee 20 Additional fee for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 Additional fee for the Senior Independent Director 10 Additional fee for the Chair of the Health, Safety&Environmental Committee 10 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 88 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED and the other being specific to the travel sector.
The calculation of STATUTORY GRAPH TSR is in accordance with the relevant remuneration regulations and The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Thomas Cook Group is broadly the change in market price together with reinvestment plc 0.10 Ordinary Shares 0.01 Ordinary Shares from 3 June 2013 for of dividend income.
This graph shows the value of 100 invested in the eight-year period since 30 September 2008, measured against Thomas Cook Group plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share These indices were chosen as relevant comparators, as the Company Travel & Leisure Index.
The intermediate points are the values at the is a member of both indices, with one reflecting a broad equity index Companys financial year ends.
Total Shareholder Return Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index 250 200 150 100 50 0 30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 11 30 Sept 12 30 Sept 13 30 Sept 14 30 Sept 15 30 Sept 16 The table below shows the pattern of remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer during this period.
CEO FY09 FY10 FY11 FY 12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 1 Peter Fankhauser n a n a n a n a n a n a 4.296m 1.209m 2 Harriet Green n a n a n a 717k 2.855m 1.046m 248k n a CEO single figure 3 ofremuneration Sam Weihagen n a n a 153k 1.171m n a n a n a n a 4 5 Manny FontenlaNovoa 2.996m 2.322m 1.008m n a n a n a n a n a Peter Fankhauser n a n a n a n a n a n a 69% 22% Group Bonus Plan Harriet Green n a n a n a n a 100% 0% 0% n a payout as%maximum Sam Weihagen n a n a 0% 23% n a n a n a n a opportunity Manny Fontenla-Novoa 96% 80% 0% n a n a n a n a n a 6 Peter Fankhauser n a n a n a n a n a n a 70% 0% 2 Harriet Green n a n a n a n a n a See below n a PSP vesting as % of maximumopportunity Sam Weihagen n a n a 0% 0% n a n a n a n a Manny FontenlaNovoa 68% 0% 0% n a n a n a n a n a The table above shows the prescribed remuneration data as shown in the left-hand side column for the Director s undertaking the role ofChief Executive Officer CEO during each of the last eight financial years.
Notes: 1 Peter Fankhauser was appointed CEO on 26 November 2014, and has been employed in the Group 5 The single figure for FY11 for Manny Fontenla-Novoa excludes his termination payment, since 1 May 2001. whichwasatotal of 1.2m in respect of contractual entitlements to base salary, pensionallowance andbenefits in lieu of notice.
2 Harriet Green stepped down as CEO on 26 November 2014 and remained a Director until 31 December 2014.
In addition to the single figure shown, a proportion of Harriet Greens 2012 PSP 6 Relates to the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards and the September 2012 PSP award representing award vested following her departure with 4,115,721 shares vesting under this award.
3 Sam Weihagen was appointed CEO on 3 August 2011 and remained in post until the appointment ofHarriet Green on 30 July 2012.
4 Manny Fontenla-Novoa stepped down as CEO on 2 August 2011.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 89 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPONENTS OFCHIEFEXECUTIVE OFFICER REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration of the CEO.
It also sets out the average percentage change in the 2017 Salary Reviews remuneration of other employees in the Group.
A peer Group of Salary reviews for the Group are in April each year.
The Committee UK-based employees has been selected.
We have selected this peer will undertake the annual salary review for Executive Directors Group as the CEO is UK-based and therefore pay movement in this in line with these timescales and therefore has not reviewed the peer Group is subject to similar external market conditions.
We have intended approach for April 2017 at the time of the publication of the excluded employees subject to long-term collective agreements FY16 Annual Report, however it is anticipated that salary increases forthe same reason, in order to ensure that the comparison is on for Executive Directors will not exceed those given to the general alike-for-like basis.
employee population, and any review will be undertaken in line with the approved Policy.
% change in remuneration from FY15 to FY16 % change in % change in % change in FY17 Group Bonus Plan 1 2 base salary benefits annual bonus The maximum opportunity for Executive Directors annual bonus will remain at 150% of base salary.
In line with our Policy, no less than 70% CEO 2.00% 28% -68% of the Bonus will be linked to the achievement of financial measures.
UK-based employees 2.78% 6% -48% Notes: As shown in the following tables, the importance of generating cash 1 The main benefits provided to UK-based employees are private health insurance, is reflected in the Plan by giving Group Free Cash Flow an equal life assurance, travel concessions, recognition awards and car allowances.
weighting to Group underlying EBIT.
As we enter into our third year of There have been changes to travel concessions discounts on our products and measuring NPS in which we have made significant improvements in recognition scheme values, along with a healthcare and life assurance premium increase, resulting in an overall year-on-year increase in the average value of UKmost markets and overall for the Group, we have therefore reduced based employee benefits.
The FY15 benefits figure for the CEO includes both Peter the weighting for NPS and given higher weighting to the delivery of Fankhauser and Harriet Green, making up a full year approx.
the NUMO strategy for the CEO.
As described on page 83 as a note to the single figure table, the increase in the benefits figure between FY15 and FY16 for the CEO is due As in previous years, any payments under the FY17 Plan will be subject to an increase in the premium for healthcare and life assurance, and largely due to tax advice relating to the Peter Fankhausers expatriate arrangement from 2013-2015 to financial hurdles for the Group underlying EBIT and Group Free Cash being concluded and invoiced during FY16.
The tax advice amounts paid are grossed Flow measures being met.
up to cover tax and NI due and is included in the benefits figure.
CEO 2 In order to provide the most direct comparison possible, the Committee considers a focus on all UK-based employees participating in the Thomas Cook Bonus Plan, For the CEO, the core measures remain as they were in FY16, focusing subject to Group performance conditions is appropriate, as the performance on our customer, profit and cash measures to drive business targets have a Group focus similar to the performance targets in place for the CEO.
Bonus levels for both the CEO and those in the Group Bonus Plan were 69% for FY15.
In FY16 achievement for the CEO was 22% of maximum bonus opportunity.
For those The structure of the FY17 Plan for the CEO is set out below: who are UK-based and intheThomas Cook Bonus Plan the average payout level will be 36% of maximum bonus opportunity.
Weighting% Measures for the CEO overall opportunity Specific Targets RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY Group Underlying EBIT 35% The table below displays the relative expenditure of the Company Specific measurable Group Free Cash Flow 35% on all employees pay and Shareholder distributions as required targets have bythe Regulations.
Net Promoter Score NPS 15% been set for all Leadership: year-on-year measures, including 2015 2016 Year-on-year improvement in employee m m % change the strategic rolesatisfaction Core-Index score, specific objectives.
optimising performance, developing These will be Overall expenditure on potential and the customer focus of disclosed in full, Group employee pay 831 863 3.85% Management Committee 5% retrospectively Group underlying EBIT 310 308 0.6% Strategic progress benefits to be at the end of the Shareholders distributions 0 0 - delivered under the Groups threeperformance period.
year NUMO strategy 10% Group underlying EBIT is shown above as this continues to be akey performance measure.
The figures shown in the table are The performance measures above have been selected to align with the strategic objectives of Thomas Cook for FY17 and to support the extracted from the Groups financial statements.
The amounts for Group employees and Directors pay include employer social continued delivery of NUMO.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 90 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED CFO TSR In the context of the volatile and uncertain economic climate that the TSR performance will be assessed relative to the constituents of Company operates in, the underlying financial health of the Group is the FTSE 250, excluding companies in the financial services and of significant strategic and financial importance.
This is particularly commodity sectors.
the case as we seek to further improve our capital structure, and TSR performance Vesting % of this portion accordingly the Committee has determined this to be a key business objective to be led by the CFO, and is designed to complement the Max Index 12% per annum 100% core measures under the Plan.
The target will be set as a stretching Target Index 8% per annum 60% absolute target and will be measured as achieved or not achieved.
Threshold Index 0% per annum 25% The structure of the FY17 Plan for the CFO is set out below: Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these points.
Weighting Specific targets % overall assessment of For performance below that of the Index, there will be no vesting.
Measures for the CFO opportunity performance EPS Group underlying EBIT 25% EPS performance will be assessed against stretching pence per Specific measurable targets Group Free Cash Flow 25% have been set for all measures share, rather than percentage growth targets, and will be measured Significant improvement including the strategic role-specific in FY19.
of the Groups financial objectives.
These will be disclosed position in relation to in full, retrospectively at the end of For the award made in FY17 and thereafter, basic EPS targets will be liquidity and cost of debt the performance period.
set on a fully diluted basis, to align closer with Shareholder interests.
finance 50% As Thomas Cook is continuing to progress through its transformation, and as EPS targets are set as pence targets, the Committee is unable Bonus targets are set on a constant currency basis at the beginning to disclose these targets prospectively at this time.
of the performance period and will be disclosed at the end of the The Board is keeping this under close review and as soon as it performance period.
As described in the Chairmans statement determines that Thomas Cook has moved out of transformation and and communicated to our major Shareholders during the year, the into a more steady-state phase, we will move to market norms disclosure of short term targets has been brought forward by a year on long-term incentive EPS target disclosure at that time.
It is the as it is no longer expected that they will be commercially sensitive at intention and expectation that this could be as early as FY17.
For outstanding awards, the targets will be disclosed when the Performance Share Plan PSP Committee considers that they are no longer commercially sensitive, The Committee will grant the next award under the PSP to Executive which will be following the end of the performance period in the Directors following the announcement of our FY16 results in Directors Remuneration Report corresponding to the financial year accordance with our current Policy.
to which they relate, providing progress updates in each Directors Remuneration Report until the awards vest.
How the Committee has As explained in the Chairmans Statement on page 71 of the report, it set the EPS targets for the FY17 award is shown in the table below: is the Committees intention to make an award of 165% of base salary to the CEO.
EPS performance Vesting % of this portion In line with the Remuneration Policy and previous PSP grant, the Max A year ahead of target 100% awards will vest to the extent stretching EPS and relative TSR targets weighted equally are achieved over a three-year performance period.
Target In line with FY19 target 60% Threshold A year behind target 25% For these awards and future awards, the vesting level for a threshold level of achievement has been reduced from 30% to 25% in line with A progress update for the EPS performance condition for the FY16 market practice in FTSE-listed companies.
This reduction has been award made in December 2015, is shown on page 93. implemented following constructive feedback from some of our major Shareholders.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 91 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Shareholding requirement audited Following approval by the Board it has been agreed that the fee Executive Directors are currently required to hold the Companys shares paid to each Committee Chairman will be aligned.
Each Committee to the value of 100% of base salary.
Executive Directors are allowed Chairman will now be paid a fee of 20,000 for chairing each a build-up period which ends after sufficient awards under the PSP Committee, in addition to their basic fee.
This will impact the Chair of have vested to provide shares to the value of 100% of base salary after the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee, with his fee increasing tax has been paid on the shares.
Until the shareholding requirement from 10,000 to 20,000 per annum effective 1 October 2016.
By virtue is met, vested PSP shares cannot be sold, other than to pay tax in of the nature of our business, the health and safety of our customers respect of the relevant award.
At 30 September 2016, Peter Fankhauser and people is of considerable importance, and as such the role of the exceeded the shareholding guidelines with aholding of 427% of salary.
Health, Safety & Environmental Committee Chair is seen as just as Michael Healy exceeded the requirement with a holding of 297%.
critical as the Audit & Remuneration Committees.
In line with the requirement, the value of the Directors holding has been calculated by taking the greater of: a the initial financial DIRECTORS AND FORMER DIRECTORS commitment: and b the market value at 30 September 2016.
SHAREINTERESTS AUDITED As communicated earlier on in this report, under our revised Policy, The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors will increase inthe shares of the Company: from 100% to 200%, and has been made a formal requirement under Beneficial holdings the Policy to be presented to Shareholders for approval at the AGM in Number of shares as at 30September 2016 February 2017.
Peter Fankhauser 2,229,376 Executive Director shareholding vs policy requirement Michael Healy 1,212,890 Frank Meysman 547,000 Peter Fankhauser 427% Dawn Airey 42,000 Annet Aris Michael Healy 297% Emre Berkin 200% shareholding requirement Lesley Knox 46,100 Warren Tucker 30,800 In addition to the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors, Martine Verluyten 165,000 the Board is implementing a shareholding requirement for the Group From 30 September 2016 to 22 November 2016 there were no changes Management Committee, GMC, which will take place from the next to any of the Directors beneficial interests in shares.
Members of the GMC will be required to hold 50% of base salary in the Companys shares.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 92 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED DETAILS OF PLANS Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, a third of any bonus payment made to Executive Directors under the Group Bonus Plan is deferred into shares for a period of two years on a compulsory basis.
The DBP awards shown in the previous table represent a third of the FY15 bonus.
The DBP awards were made on 8 January 2016 and the shares will be released on 6 January 2018, the second anniversary of the actual bonus payment date.
The value was disclosed inthe2015 Annual Report, which is available on the Companys website.
Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, participants are awarded a conditional award of shares in Thomas Cook Group plc.
Shares under the awards will vest to the satisfaction of the performance conditions measured over three years are met.
Performance conditions for awards up to and including March2015, were based on absolute share price, Group underlying EBIT and Group Cash Conversion.
For subsequent awards, granted from December 2015 onwards, the performance conditions are TSR and EPS.
Performance Conditions for PSP Awards audited FY13 PSP awards The performance measures, targets and performance achieved under the FY13 PSP awards which lapsed during the year are set out on page86.
FY14 PSP awards There were no awards made to Executive Directors during FY14.
FY15 PSP awards The FY15 PSP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to performance measures as set out in the table below: Share price Group underlying EBIT Cash conversion 45% of the overall award 30% of the overall award 25% of the overall award Performance Share Vesting %of Performance Group underlying Vesting %of Performance Cash Vesting %of level price this portion level EBIT this portion level conversion this portion To be disclosed Maximum 3.00 100% Maximum 100% Maximum 80% 100% retrospectively Threshold 2.25 30% Threshold 30% Threshold 70% 30% Share price is measured as the average Group underlying EBIT in respect of FY17, Cash conversion is measured in respect share price over the fixed period of which is the final year of the three-year of FY17 cash conversion, which is the final 30trading days from the release of performance period.
year of the three-year performance period.
the preliminary FY17 results, with the Group underlying EBIT excludes Cash conversion is defined as free cash intentionof capturing the markets exceptionalitems.
flow post-exceptional items, before capital reaction to the financial results.
FY16 PSP awards The FY16 PSP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to performance measures as set out in the table below: Total Shareholder Return TSR Basic Earnings Per Share EPS 50% of the overall award 50% of the overall award Performance TSR Vesting %of Performance Basic Earnings Vesting %of level Performance this portion level Per Share this portion 12% above To be disclosed Maximum theindex 100% Maximum 100% retrospectively 8% above seeupdate on performance Target theindex 60% Target 60% againsttargets Equal to onthenextpage.
Threshold the Index 30% Threshold 30% The Indexed TSR measures the TSR of the Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit Company relative to the FTSE250 excluding or loss attributable to ordinary Shareholders financial services and commodities.
of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding TSR performance is measured over the during the FY18.
There will be straight-line full three-year performance period ending vesting between points.
Basic EPS will be measured in respect of the final year of the performance period, inthe year ending 30 September 2018.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 93 UPDATE ON PROGRESS AGAINST EPS TARGETS FOR FY16 PSP AWARD It is recognised that a prospective disclosure of EPS targets under FY16 PSP award, and any subsequent PSP awards that include EPS as one of the performance conditions is helpful to Shareholders in ascertaining the appropriateness and strength of the target, and that this remains a key point for Shareholders.
In order to provide some assurance to Shareholders that the targets are sufficiently stretching, we will provide an indicative update each year in the Directors Remuneration Report on performance against EPS targets, under each outstanding PSP award.
The FY16 PSP award made in December 2015 has EPS targets relating to performance in FY18.
As described earlier in the report, EBIT performance in FY16 has not met the growth expectations that were intended and accordingly, this will impact subsequent years growth.
EPS performance in FY18, in relation to the targets set under the FY16 PSP awards, is currently forecast to be around the threshold level of vesting for this element of the award, categorised as amber in respect of a red, amber, green traffic light indicator, as illustrated in the diagram below: Between Estimated Below threshold and Between target vesting % max for Traffic light FY16 PSP Awards threshold At threshold target At target and max At or above max this proportion indicator EPS FY18 p 30% Key: Below threshold Between threshold and below target Above target EXTERNAL ADVISERS The Committee ensures that it is kept fully informed and up-to-date on best practice developments on Corporate Governance throughout the year.
Developments in the executive remuneration field are communicated to the Committee at each meeting where relevant and appropriate, and provide guidance in the decision-making of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for appointing and reviewing its external advisers.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte were appointed by the Committee and has continued this year as the Remuneration Committees advisers, providing the Committee with objective and independent advice on remuneration matters.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to their Code of Conduct in its dealings with the Committee.
It is determined by the Committee that advice provided by Deloitte is objective and independent and does not create any conflicts of interest.
The Committee is also comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team, that provides remuneration advice to the Committee, does not have connections with Thomas Cook that may impair their independence.
Total fees paid to Deloitte in relation to advice to the Committee amounted to 166,500.
During the year other separate teams in Deloitte have provided Thomas Cook miscellaneous consulting services, as well as general tax, corporate finance and internal audit advice.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 94 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM and the Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM: Votes for Proportion of total Votes against Proportion of total Total number of Total number of number of shares votes cast number of shares votes cast votes cast votes withheld Annual Remuneration Report 2016 AGM 896,374,083 74.69% 303,755,512 25.31% 1,200,129,595 19,767,504 Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM 922,208,978 98.90% 10,242,471 1.10% 932,451,449 4,297,020 The Committee has engaged with those Shareholders to better understand their rationale for voting against the Annual Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM.
The main issues Shareholders raised were with regards to the use of judgement in determining the payouts under the annual bonus plan in FY15, without detailed justification, and the lack of prospective disclosure of EPS targets under the PSP.
The disclosure of annual bonus plan targets has been enhanced and also brought forward to the Remuneration Report in which the bonus is in respect of, as opposed to a one-year lag.
The Committee however maintains that the final year absolute EPS target under the PSP remains commercially sensitive until the performance period is complete, however, an update on how performance is tracking against these targets is now included on page 93.
This Annual Report on remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: WARREN TUCKER CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 22 November 2016
