68 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2016.
Included within this Report is our revised Directors Remuneration Policy, the Policy.
The current Policy is required to be reviewed after three years of operation, and therefore together with our Annual Report on Directors Remuneration, will be presented to Shareholders for approval at our next Annual General Meeting, AGM on 9 February 2017.
CHAIRMAN Warren Tucker COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Committee was delighted to appoint Lesley Knox, Non-Executive OTHER MEMBERS Director to the Committee in March 2016.
Lesley brings to the Dawn Airey, Annet Aris, Emre Berkin and Lesley Knox Committee substantive experience in executive remuneration, currently chairing the Remuneration Committees of Centrica plc COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE andLegal & General Group plc.
All members of the Committee are Independent .
During the year, the Committees activities predominantly focused on the review and development of the Policy.
This review involved DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES assessing the Policy so that it is aligned with and supports the on pages 51 to 53 achievement of the Companys strategic objectives.
Our aim is to drive a pay for performance culture, incentivising Executive Directors to MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: create value for our Shareholders.
We have given full consideration Frank Meysman Chairman, Peter Fankhauser CEO, Michael Healy to the corporate governance policies and best practice guidelines CFO, Martine Verluyten Independent Non-Executive Director, in developing the Policy.
Over the summer, I met with a number of AliceMarsden Group Company Secretary, Mitul Shah Deloitte LLP, representatives from our largest Shareholders and Governance and members of the HRLeadership Team as required.
bodies, making positive amendments to our initial proposals based All attendees are by invitation only.
SCHEDULED MEETINGS In conjunction with the Policy review, the Committee reviewed the Five Performance Share Plan PSP rules as they approach the endof their 10-year plan tenure.
As with the Policy review, we considered best practice corporate governance updates within the renewal of the rules, again to ensure that the PSP drives long-term value creation and links executive pay with the long-term strategic objectives of the Company.
Shareholders were consulted on thesubstantive changes to the PSP and will be asked to approve thePSP at the February 2017 AGM.
With the aim of creating flexibility within the Policy, the Committee considered the introduction of an alternative long-term incentive plan, the Strategic Share Incentive Plan, SSIP.
This would be used as an alternative to the PSP in specific situations where there may be This report is set out in the following key sections: a need to put greater emphasis on near-term strategic goals within ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF THE the context of the overall long-term strategy for growth.
The SSIP  was designed during the year, and discussed with Shareholders See more on this page in the summer for their views on its operation and potential use.
A summary of the key terms is set out in the following pages and DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY further details can be found in the Policy section, starting on page 73.
See more on page 73 The Committee does not intend to make awards under the SSIP in the next financial year, FY17.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION See more on page 82 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 69 OUR PERFORMANCE IN FY16 Overall variable pay In what has been a challenging year for the industry, Thomas Cook The Committee is determined to ensure alignment of variable has demonstrated its resilience.
The actions Management took to remuneration with Shareholder returns and, as in previous years, shift the holiday programme into the Western Mediterranean and overall business performance has been reflected in total remuneration long-haul destinations has helped maintain revenue at Group level received by the CEO and CFO for the year: with the overall payout and deliver record profit margins in our UK and Northern European of variable pay being 33% and 36% of base salary respectively.
Operating profit was 308m, slightly down on the prior Providing incentivising and motivating arrangements in a period year reflecting the decline in demand to Turkey, the impact of attacks of market instability is challenging, however we are committed to in Brussels on our Belgium business and currency translation gains.
maintaining a pay for performance culture.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN FY16 OUR APPROACH TO DISCLOSURE Long-term incentives Because the business has been in transformation over the last three years, we considered the bonus targets to be commercially sensitive In 2013 we set out ambitious transformation plans for the Company.
at the time of publication of the Annual Report, in respect of the year The targets relating to FY16 under the 2013 PSP therefore reflected to which they relate, and therefore disclosed them retrospectively our aims of significant growth in earnings and a substantive one year later i. e. FY15 targets are disclosed in this report on improvement in our cash position, with a corresponding improvement page 85. in share price.
Both Executive Directors held 2013 PSP awards.
As performance has not been achieved against these stretching The Committee is mindful of the importance of open and timely targets, awards held by Executive Directors have lapsed and there disclosure of bonus targets, and the role they play in the Committees was no vesting in respect of this award.
The targets which are ability to explain to Shareholders the decisions made, and has kept retrospectively disclosed are shown on page86.
under review the commercial sensitivity of targets as the Company progresses through transformation.
We are therefore pleased to Short-term incentives confirm an improvement to our disclosure practice going forward and For FY16, the Group Bonus Plan, the Plan in which Executive will disclose targets in the year to which they relate.
The targets, and Directors and senior managers across the Group participate was the assessment of performance against them, for the FY16 Plan are simplified and strengthened to focus on three core measures: Group therefore also disclosed in full in this years Report on page 84.
Underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT, Group Free Cash Flow and Net Promoter Score NPS.
In addition, a proportion of the Further to this improvement to our disclosure of annual bonus bonus is based on role-specific objectives.
targets, we have also listened and responded to feedback from Shareholders on the disclosure of our earnings per share, EPS Whilst Management has demonstrated good strategic progress targets which form part of the PSP.
Whilst the Committee maintains during FY16, Thomas Cook continued to be impacted by external the view that the final year absolute EPS targets are commercially events throughout the year and the threshold financial targets sensitive until the point of vesting, we are pleased to provide an under the Bonus Plan were not met.
Step-change improvement has annual update on progress against the targets by displaying a traffic however been made in respect of NPS, which measures the extent light indicator and supporting commentary, as set out on page 93. to which customers recommend Thomas Cook to friends and family.
More details on NPS can be found on page 10.
The NPS score for This improved level of disclosure has been acknowledged as a FY16 represents an overall increase across the Group of 4.6 points, positive and significant step forward in our disclosure by a number of an incredible achievement over just one year and a strong sign that our major Shareholders that we have spoken to throughout the year.
the efforts of the CEO and leadership team across the business are putting the Customer at the Heart of everything that we do.
Performance against role-specific targets has also been strong, this includes the agreement of a strategic partnership with Webjet and the another year of improvement in the Groups employee satisfaction core-index score.
This increase of 2 points in 2016 outperforms the external benchmark and reflects our peoples belief in the Leadership Team and strategic direction of Thomas Cook.
Overall, performance for the year against the bonus plan targets was above the required underlying hurdles on financial performance, resulting in moderate bonus payments to Executive Directors and senior managers that participated in this Plan.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 70 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED The diagram below shows the alignment between our strategy as LINKING PAY WITH PERFORMANCE set out on pages 10 to 19 and Key Performance Indicators KPIs Variable remuneration for Executive Directors is a combination as set out on page 22, and the strong link between our business of both short and long-term incentives which are based on performance and Executive Directors pay.
delivering stretching targets, on company performance, measured by profitability, customer service and Shareholder value creation.
ALIGNING PAY WITH THE THOMAS COOK GROUP STRATEGY CARE CONTACT Read more on page 10 Read more on page 11 OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES AND STREAMLINED ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE PARTNERSHIPS SERVICES HOLIDAYS KPIs which measure the success of the delivery of the strategy.
Read more on page 8 FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL UNDERLYING EBIT EMPLOYEE AND UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER NET NET PROMOTER SATISFACTION EBIT MARGIN SHARE EPS DEBT SCORE NPS CORE-INDEX GROWTH ALIGNMENT WITH OUR STRATEGY Annual bonus and long-term incentives with challenging targets and KPIs includinggrowth in earnings, improvement tocash flow and customer satisfaction that are criticaltosupport thecreation of long-term Shareholder value.
Bonus Plan core PSP Bonus core Bonus Plan core Bonus Plan rolemeasure performance measure measure specific objective Underlying EBIT condition EPS free cash flow NPS core index score ALIGNMENT WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS For our senior leadership team we aim to align their interests with those of our Shareholders through the PSP which onlydelivers value to participants if stretching earnings and total shareholder return TSR targets are met.
REMUNERATION KPIS OUR FOCUS CORE STRATEGY THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 71 It is our strong view that the leadership team has made considerable APPROACH FOR FY17 strategic progress in executing the strategy for sustainable, Salary reviews profitable growth despite the challenging environment we Thomas Cook undertakes an annual salary review in April of each continue to trade in.
During the last year, Peter Fankhauser has year.
Therefore at the time of publication of this report, the salary driven significant transformation of the business in many areas of increases for FY17 have not yet been discussed or determined.
strategic importance, including putting customers back at the heart However, it is anticipated that any base salary increase for Executive of everything we do as a business, operational improvements in Directors would be consistent with increases provided to the general service and costs, and in embedding the culture of being a customer employee population.
Short-term incentives Peter continues to focus on the long term future of Thomas Cook, this The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain at 150% of salary year executing opportunities for growth: the strategic partnership for both Executive Directors.
At least 70% of the bonus will continue to with Webjet, and the continuing development of the joint venture be based on financial measures, however the weightings have been with Fosun.
adjusted to align with priorities over the coming year.
For the CEO, Against a backdrop of a year of very challenging market conditions, 35% will be based on Group underlying EBIT, 35% on Group Free Cash the Committee was intending to make an award to Peter Fankhauser Flow, 15% on NPS and the remaining 15% on role-specific objectives.
of 200% of base salary under the PSP, to reflect and recognise For the CFO, 25% will be based on Group underlying EBIT, 25% on Group the significant impact Peter has had, and continues to have in the Free Cash Flow, and the remaining 50% on the improvement of the business.
The Committee has considered the size of this award in the Groups financial position in relation to liquidity and the cost of debt context of a decline in share price since last year, as well as feedback finance.
Further details are set out on page 90. from some Shareholders, and has made the decision to set the Long-term incentives intended level of award to 165% of base salary.
The Committee intends to make the next set of PSP awards in This level of award recognises and seeks to incentivise the continued FY17.
The performance conditions for the awards will remain in line leadership, drive and commitment Peter demonstrates and the with the FY16 awards and as such the awards will be based 50% profitable growth he is expected to deliver over the next 3 years.
Targets set under the PSP continue to be Details of the actual grants for our Executive Directors will be significantly stretching.
disclosed, once they are made, through the regulatory news service, RNS as well as in next years report.
The Committee has this year considered the performance of our CEO when considering the level of PSP award to be granted in FY17.
The table below provides a high level summary of the outcomes for the year and the remuneration arrangements going forward for the Executive Directors: Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Name Peter Fankhauser Michael Healy Annual salary 703,800 530,600 increased from 690,000, 2% effective 1April2016 increased from 520,200, 2% effective 1April2016 FY17 maxbonus opportunity one-third 150% of base salary 150% of base salary deferred intoshares fortwoyears FY17 PSP award subject to performance 165% of base salary 150% of base salary FY16 bonus % of base salary 33% 36% 235,632 193,563 LTIP awards % of maximum 0% PSP Award lapsed 0% PSP Award lapsed vesting award vesting in the year Number of vested shares None None FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 72 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED CHANGES TO THE POLICY SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As mentioned, we have included a number of best practice The Committee remains committed to ongoing engagement with our improvements to the Policy.
These include a number of changes Shareholders and welcomes views on executive remuneration to to the operation of the PSP including i the inclusion of a two year ensure that the interests of our Executive Directors are fully aligned post-vesting holding period, ii the reduction in the threshold level of with those of our Shareholders, our people and our customers.
vesting to 25% previously 30%, iii aligning the leaver treatment with The Committee and I have found the views of our major Shareholders best practice, and iv the inclusion of claw-back post-vesting within hugely valuable in shaping our new Policy and Plans during the year the Policy.
and we appreciate the time taken to meet with us.
I look forward to We have also increased the shareholding requirement for Executive yoursupport at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors from 100% of base salary to 200% of base salary and CLOSING REMARKS introduced a maximum cap on the pension provision of 30% of base salary.
This year, the focus for the Remuneration Committee has been the review of the Remuneration Policy, which included a review of Another significant change to the Policy is the inclusion of the new corporate governance policies and best practice guidelines, taking SSIP.
The changes are described in more detail on the following page.
into consideration the overall view of our Shareholders and a review of how effective our current Policy has been.
NEW STRATEGIC SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN SSIP During the year the Committee designed the SSIP with the aim of We believe that the new Policy continues to support our pay for creating an alternative to the PSP, to be used in specific situations performance philosophy and culture and that there are appropriate where near-term strategic goals may need to be given greater incentives in place to enable our Executive Directors to create priority, whilst maintaining an alignment with long-term targets.
Shareholder value with the delivery of our strategy through the implementation of the Groups New Operating Model.
The SSIP will be used where there is a strategic objective which is essential to the long-term success of Thomas Cook, which is I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow members not, at the time of grant, aligned with the time frame of either the of the Remuneration Committee and those who supported the annual bonus or the PSP.
Under the SSIP, an initial award of shares Committee for their valuable contribution throughout the year.
may be made, dependent on the achievement against predefined strategic objectives.
WARREN TUCKER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE These strategic objectives may be achieved in a time-frame of at least two years.
Following the end of the strategic objective performance 22 November 2016 period the Committee will determine the size of, and make the initial share award based on the achievement against the strategic objectives.
This initial award of shares may then be increased or decreased subject to the TSR performance measured over the three financial years from the financial year the individual is invited to participate in the SSIP.
This feature provides a long-term target over the entire time horizon of the SSIP and ensures alignment with our Shareholders.
Any shares vesting from this Plan will also be subject to an additional holding period of at least two years, to further enhance alignment with our Shareholders, providing a minimum 5 year timehorizon.
We consulted with our largest Shareholders and have listened to their specific feedback in the development of its final design.
As noted previously, participation in the SSIP precludes an award under the PSP in a given year.
I would like also like to emphasise that the SSIP will only be used where there is a specific rationale and does not form part of our usual practice.
As a result we have committed as part of our Policy not to award an SSIP for a given participant more than once every four years.
Detailed terms can be found in the Policy and in the AGM Notice.
