Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 Dear Shareholders, Chart: historical annual bonus, PSP and CIP vesting as a percentage of maximum for the CEO As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am very pleased % to introduce the 2016Directors Remuneration Report.
100 The Groups previously stated ambition to deliver long term sustainable value to shareholders remains at the heart 80 of the Committees approach to executive remuneration.
60 Afundamental aspect of this is the link between the Groups strategy and remuneration with each part of the remuneration 40 package playing a role in driving performance beyond the 20 short and medium terms to deliver long term ambition and shareholder returns.
0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016Av The Committee believes that incentive pay-outs are strongly Annual PSP Co-Investment Plan aligned with the Groups performance and the value created Bonus for shareholders.
The Committee is also pleased that recent feedback from analysts and shareholders, during the review of the current policy, has been supportive of the strong alignment Chart: TSR % increase between executive incentive outcomes and group performance.
and Adjusted EPS performance p Thisalignment is illustrated in the following charts: % 140 300 120 250 100 200 80 150 60 100 40 50 20 00 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Adjusted EPS TSR performance TSR re-based to 100 at 1 January 2010 74 Adjusted EPS p TSR performance Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Review of remuneration arrangements Remove the secondary performance test that applies to deferred shares under the deferred annual bonus plan and amend the The Committee undertook a review of the Groups executive vesting period so that all deferred shares vest over the longer remuneration framework during the year to ensure that it three year vesting period subject to continued employment.
continues to be aligned with its strategy and represents pay for The double performance test structure was considered overly performance.
The Committee very carefully considered a range complicated, is not well understood by participants and therefore of approaches, overall however, it concluded that Groups current does not serve as an effective incentive.
remuneration framework, which has been consistently supported by its shareholders over the last three years, remains the right Reduce the level of vesting for Threshold performance under one for Travis Perkins.
the long-term incentives from 30% of maximum to 25% of maximum to better reflect prevailing market practice.
The Group is therefore resubmitting its Remuneration Policy largely unchanged to shareholders at the 2017 AGM and it plans Delink the EPS annual growth targets from RPI for the to continue to incentivise long-term performance through the PSP in order to simplify the approach and provide greater Performance Share Plan PSP and the Co-Investment Plan CIP.
transparency in relation to targets set for participants No changes are proposed to the overall incentive opportunities.
Given that RPI is no longer the main measure of inflation in the UK the Committee did not consider The Committee understands that some shareholders it appropriate to continue to link tartgets to this measure.
prefer that companies simplify their remuneration structures and only operate one long-term incentive plan.
In order to strengthen the alignment of executives with However, theCo-Investment Plan is considered to be a very shareholders over the long-term the Committee has decided effective reward tool within the organisation.
Under the plan to introduce a post vesting holding period for PSP awards senior managers and executives voluntarily invest their own cash granted from 2017 onwards.
For 2017 awards, executives will be into company shares thereby ensuring that management has real required to hold any shares that vest for a further one year period skin in the game and is more closely aligned to the investment following vesting.
This period will be extended to two years for choices and risks shareholders take.
In 2016 investment was 2018 awards onwards.
taken up by 80% of the eligible senior managers and executives.
The targets that apply to the 2017 PSP and CIP awards are In light of shareholders preference for simplification of disclosed in this report on page 86. remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, the The Committee believes that the current framework with the Commitee has made the following changes to the Groups minor modifications outlined above optimises the link between incentive plans in order to simplify the more complex areas strategy and remuneration.
Ensuring this link continues to be of the Policy and to bring the structure more in line with a key focus during my tenure.
investorexpectations: The Committee consulted extensively with the Groups largest shareholders and proxy advisory bodies regarding the proposed remuneration framework and was pleased with the level of support received.
The modifications made to the framework this year reflect that consultation.
Annual Financial Co-investment Strategy PSP Incentive Ambition Plan Customer Double digit EPS EPS Innovation EBITA growth Investment grade Aggregate Optimise Network credit metrics cash flow 150-250 bps LAROCE CROCE LAROCE Scale Advantage improvement over medium term 3-5 years Portfolio TSR Management Prospective dividend growth Personal to within 2.5-3.25x objectives aligned cover to operational delivery 75 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Salary review FTSE50-150 companies so none of the TSR element vested.
The Group acheived excellent aggregate cash flow over the three John Carters and Tony Buffins salaries were increased by 1% year period of 907m resulting in the full 40% of the cash flow with effect from 1 January 2017.
This increase reflects salary element vesting.
increases received throughout the Group.
The CEOs current salary is therefore 690,131 and the COOs salary is 533,283.
Overall 54% of PSP awards granted in 2014 vested.
Non-executive Directors base fees were also increased by 1% 2014 Co-Investment Awards from 1January 2017.
The CEO and CFO invested the maximum amount possible under the Co-Investment Plan in 2014 and awards were made 2016 Remuneration outcomes under the plan of twice the gross value of the investments In 2016 the political landscape was dominated by the result made.
Co-Investment awards granted in 2014 were subject to of the EU referendum.
The resultant economic uncertainty CROCE performance.
CROCE performance over the three year acutely impacted the construction and housing markets, period was 9.3% reflecting strong cash performance and capital and has been particularly difficult for domestic UK businesses.
This resulted in 97% of awards vesting.
Against these substantial challenges the Groups performance has stood upwell and it delivered the following against key Appointment of CFO and COO financial objectives: Alan Williams joined the Board in the role of CFO on Adjusted EPS of 120.4p 2015: 124.1p 3January2017.
Alans salary has been set at 500,000 perannum, his pension contribution will be 25% of base salary LAROCE of 10.7% 2015: 10.5% and his benefits are in-line with those set out in the Groups EBITA of 409m 2015: 413m remuneration policy.
The Committee considers that this salary is a fully effective salary for the role reflecting Alans experience 2016 Bonus Payout and calibre.
As such it is intended that any future salary Bonuses for Executive Directors are based on EPS 60%, increases would be in-line with those received throughout the LAROCE 20% and performance against our strategic widerorganisation.
Adjusted EPS fell by 3% which was just below the His maximum annual bonus will be 150% of base salary and threshold target resulting in no bonus being earned for this element he will receive a maximum award of 150% of base salary under of bonus.
LAROCE was 10.7% and resulted in 27.5% of maximum the Performance Share Plan.
Alan will also be eligible to invest bonus potential for this element being earned.
up to 50% of his net salary under the Co-Investment Plan and Performance against the strategic tracker was particularly strong receive a maximum matching award of up to 100% of salary.
during this period with targets relating to online sales growth, This is the same incentive arrangements that operate for sales from new space, customer satisfaction and commercial theCOO.
programmes all met or exceeded.
The strategic tracker is an On leaving his former employer Alan forfeited outstanding important part of the short term incentive.
It focuses short-term incentives under his deferred bonus and performance share management effort towards delivering on strategic goals which plans.
The Committee determined that it was appropriate to are considered critical for delivering long term returns and buy-out these incentives.
The buy-out awards have been sustainability of performance.
It is closely aligned to the corporate structured as far as possible to be on a like-for-like basis with plan and the levers of value creation and so provides an awards he has forfeited being compensated in accordance with important bridge from annual bonus to long term incentive plans.
In addition Alan agreed to make Payout against the strategic tracker was assessed at 90% for the a significant personal investment in Travis Perkins shares prior to CEO and 87.1% for the CFO.
Overall bonus for 2016 was therefore 22.4% of maximum for Further details in relation to Alans package are provided the CEO 42.3% of salary and 22.9% of maximum for the on page 93.
Half of this bonus will be paid as cash following the year end.
The remaining half will be deferred as Following Alans appointment Tony Buffin transitioned to the role shares which will vest after three years.
His remuneration arrangements remain unchanged.
The Committee considered that this level of bonus was The Committee will be submitting its remuneration report appropriate reflecting strong progress against strategic and policy to the 2017 AGM where the report will be subject objectives and resilient financial performance in a challenging to advisory shareholder vote and the revised policy subject to economicenvironment.
I look forward to receiving your support.
The Committee is seeking approval for new share plans following Deferred Share Bonus Plan Awards Vesting the expiry of the current plans.
These plans include a revised The share price growth targets attached to the deferred share Deferred Share Bonus Plan, which reflects the changes outlined award relating to bonus earned in 2014 were achieved and above as well as approval to renew the Groups current long-term accordingly these awards will vest in full in March 2017. incentive plans: the Co-Investment Plan and Performance Share Plan PSP.
2014 PSP Vesting I look forward to receiving your support.
PSP awards granted in 2014 were subject to adjusted EPS 40%, TSR 20% and cash flow 40% performance.
Adjusted EPS Coline McConville grew by 16.7% over the three year period resulting in 14% of the Remuneration Committee Chairman adjusted EPS element vesting.
The Companys TSR performance 14 March 2017 was ranked below the median of the comparator group 76 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Policy report Reward mechanisms should ensure that a significant proportion of variable pay is delivered in deferred shares The following sets out the Groups Directors Remuneration Policy with malus and clawback provisions ensuring that executives the Policy.
The Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote retain a meaningful personal stake in the Groups success on 24 May 2017 and, if approved by shareholders, will apply to payments made on and from this date.
This Policy will All colleagues should be able to share in the success of the replace in full the directors remuneration policy set out in the Group through participation in both annual bonus schemes 2013 Annual Report, which was approved by shareholders at the and longer term share plans 2014 AGM with 93.3% shareholder support.
If approved, The approach to basic salary increases should be consistent the Committee would then put a policy to shareholders again across all colleagues no later than the 2020 AGM.
These principles apply across the Group.
In addition to Remuneration Philosophy competitive base salary and bonus programmes, colleagues The principles of the Groups remuneration policy also have access to an extensive range of benefits under the remainunchanged: Groups MyPerks colleague benefit programme.
This includes a wide range of flexible and voluntary benefits, retirement benefits, Remuneration should be competitive and contribute to the theever popular all-colleague Sharesave Scheme and a range delivery of short and long term superior financial returns ofrecognition programmes.
forshareholders Remuneration should contain significant performance related incentive elements Maximum Potential Performance Remuneration Element Link to Strategy Operation Value Metrics Committee Discretion Base Salary Core element Normally reviewed In the None.
The Committee retains of total package, annually as at 1 January.
normal course discretion to award salary essential to support Factors influencing the of events the increases in excess of recruitment and decisioninclude: maximum the general population retention of high salary increase where necessary to Role, experience and calibre executives.
for Executive reflect performance individual performance Directors will or significant changes Pay awards elsewhere be in line with in market practice, to in theGroup the general recognise changes in employee roles and responsibilities Salary levels at other increase.
or where a new Executive companies of a similar size Director has been General economic appointed to the Board environment and at a lower than typical performance of market salary to allow for thebusiness growth in therole.
Benefits Maintain a Directors are currently entitled Benefit levels None.
The Committee may competitive to benefits including: reflect those remove benefits that package with typically Executive Directors Private medical insurance a range of available receive or introduce benefits for the Income protection to senior other benefits if it is director and managers considered appropriate to Annual leave up to theirfamily.
within the do so taking into account 30days Group and thecircumstances.
Fully expensed company may be car or cash alternative subject to change.
The Life insurance of up to maximum 5times salary potential All employee share plans value being such as SAYE and BAYE the cost to the Company to Executive Directors shall provide those be reimbursed for all benefits.
reasonable expenses and the Company may settle any tax incurred in relation to these whereappropriate.
77 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Maximum Potential Performance Remuneration Element Link to Strategy Operation Value Metrics Committee Discretion Pension Helps executives No director actively 25% of salary.
provide for participates in a defined retirement and benefit pension scheme.
to 25% of salary is provided either as a cash allowance in lieu of pension or as part cash allowance in lieu of pension and part contribution to a personal pension plan.
Pension allowances will not be included in the salary figure to be used to calculate bonus or the level of award under long term incentive plans.
Annual Bonus Rewards Total bonus level is Maximum Bonus measures The Committee retains and Deferred achievement determined after the year bonus typically include: the discretion to Share Bonus of annual end, based on achievement opportunity review the measures, Financial targets Plan financial and key oftargets.
under the the weighting of business strategy plan is 180% Individual or Group measures and to set the Normally up to 50% of the objectives.
of annual targets pertaining performance targets and total bonus is paid in cash.
Rewards personal salary for to delivery of the ranges for each measure.
The remainder of the bonus is performance the CEO business strategy deferred as shares for 3years.
The Committee will measured against and 150% Financial targets will determine financial key objectives.
The deferred element may for the COO account for at least targets and the amount Deferred element be granted in the form of nil andCFO.
of bonus which can be encourages longer cost options or conditional earned for achievement term shareholding shareawards.
Performance below of the Groups annual and aligns reward threshold results in Targets are set annually in line operating plan.
This to shareholder zero bonus.
Bonus with the performance metrics.
earned rises from 0% be based upon an Malus and Dividend equivalents on to 100% of maximum assessment of the clawback and vesting shares may be paid.
bonus opportunity for degree of difficulty in performance levels of performance Malus and clawback achieving the plan taking based forfeiture between threshold provisions apply as into account market provisions and maximum explained further on page 81. conditions, improvement discourage targets.
on prior year performance excessive risk Performance required, and other taking and short measures and relevant factors.
term outlook weightings are set out ensuring that in the Statement of executive and Implementation of the shareholder Remuneration Policy.
78 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Maximum Potential Performance Remuneration Element Link to Strategy Operation Value Metrics Committee Discretion Performance Incentivises Awards are normally granted The maximum Performance measures The Committee retains Share Plan participants in the form of nil cost options, annual award are typically based discretion to review the to deliver key annually to participants.
for all executive around key financial performance measures, financial targets directors is and or share price the weighting applied Awards will normally vest over a longer 150% of salary.
metrics which reflect to measures, and to set after 3 years subject to the term, with the Group strategy.
the target ranges for satisfaction of performance particular focus eachmeasure.
Vesting criteria on shareholder are set against a In addition the Committee return and the For Executive Directors a target range based will review and select the generation of post-vesting holding period on performance appropriate comparator cash to fund will apply to awards granted levels determined group for relative investment in under the PSP.
For 2017 by the Groups performance measures.
growth and awards, shares that vest will projections for the long term not be released to executives next 3 years for the sustainability.
for a further one year period relevantmeasure.
Helps retain This period will be extended Where relative high performing to two years for 2018 performance executives.
measures are used for example TSR Awards may also be granted threshold target levels in conjunction with a taxwill be set at the advantaged CSOP option up median performance to the HMRC limits currently level.
The vesting of a Performance below Qualifying PSP Award will be the threshold target scaled back to take account of results in zero vesting.
any gain made on exercise of From the threshold the associated CSOP option.
target level the A Qualifying PSP Award will amount of the award enable the executive and the vesting rises from Company to benefit from tax 25% to 100% of advantaged treatment on part maximum opportunity of their PSP award without for levels of increasing the pre-tax value performance between delivered to the executive or lower and maximum cost to the Company.
Performance The tax advantaged options conditions and are subject to the same weightings are set out performance measures as the in the Statement of non-tax advantaged element.
Implementation of the The Committee may decide Remuneration Policy.
to scale back participation where the shareholding requirement set by the Committee is not met.
Dividend equivalents on vesting shares may be paid.
Malus and clawback provisions apply as explained further on page 81.
79 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Maximum Potential Performance Remuneration Element Link to Strategy Operation Value Metrics Committee Discretion CoEncourages Executives may be invited Participants Performance measures The Committee retains Investment a mutual to participate in the Comay invest are typically based discretion to review the Plan commitment Investment Plan annually.
up to 50% around key financial performance measures, the weighting applied whereby Each participant buys shares of their and or share price to measures, and to set participants from their own resources.
metrics which reflect the target ranges for build up a These shares are designated the Group strategy.
shareholding in as Investment Shares for matching Vesting criteria the Company and the purposes of the Coawards of are set against a In addition the Committee are incentivised Investment Plan.
twice the target range based will review and select the to deliver A matching share award gross salary on performance appropriate comparator key financial normally in the form of equivalent of levels determined group for relative targets over a a nil cost option is made the amount by the Groups performance measures.
to each participant, which invested projections for the Helps retain high vests after 3 years subject to i. e. 100% of next 3 years for the calibre executives.
achievement of performance gross salary.
The number of Where relative matching shares will lapse performance pro rata to the disposal of any measures are used associated Investment Shares for example TSR by the participant prior to threshold target the vesting of the associated levels will be set matching share award.
at the median Dividend equivalents on performancelevel.
vesting shares may be paid.
Performance below Malus and clawback provisions the threshold target apply as explained further on results in zero page 81. vesting.
From the threshold target level the amount of the award vesting rises from 25% to 100% of maximum opportunity for levels of performance between lower and maximumtargets.
Performance conditions and weightings are set out in the Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
Shareholding Aligns the Formal requirements N A Executive directors The Committee Requirements interests of not voluntary guidelines are expected to retains discretion to executives and apply to directors and senior hold shares valued increase shareholding shareholders.
Participation in at two times salary requirements.
long-term incentives may be within 5years of scaled back or withheld if the appointment to requirements are not met theBoard.
For the purposes of assessing compliance with the shareholding requirement vested, but unexercised awards will be considered.
80 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Changes to policy Malus and clawback provisions can be applied to an award if one or more of the relevant circumstances occurs between the start The key changes to this Policy compared to the 2014 Policy of the performance bonus period and until the third anniversary are as follows: of payment of any cash bonus or the date of award under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the sixth anniversary of award The secondary share price performance test that applies under the Performance Share Plan and the Co-Investment Plan.
to deferred shares under the deferred annual bonus plan has been removed.
The vesting period has also been increased Discretion so that all deferred shares vest over the longer three year vesting period subject to continued employment.
This change Areas where the Committee has discretion have been outlined will apply to bonuses paid and deferred shares awarded in in the Policy.
The Committee may also exercise operational and respect of 2016performance.
administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
A number of Committee The level of vesting for threshold performance under the discretions apply to awards granted under each of the Companys long-term incentives has been reduced from 30% of maximum share plans, including: to 25% of maximum to better reflect prevailing market practice That awards may be granted as conditional share awards or For Executive Directors a post vesting holding period has been nil-cost options or in such other form that the Committee introduced for PSPawards.
For 2017 awards, executives will determines has the same economic effect be required to hold any shares that vest for a further one year period from vesting.
This period will be extended to two years That awards may be settled in cash at the Committees for 2018 awards onwards.
discretion Other minor changes have been made to the wording of the That awards may be adjusted in the event of any variation policy to aid operation and to increase clarity of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys Performance metrics shareprice In considering appropriate performance metrics for the short In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend the Policy and long term incentives the Committee seeks to incentivise and with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, reinforce delivery of the Companys strategic objectives achieving in the opinion of the Committee, inappropriate to seek or await a balance between delivering annual return to shareholders and shareholder approval.
ensuring sustainable long term profitability and growth.
Measures The Committee retains discretion to amend or substitute will therefore reflect a balance of direct shareholder value, such performance measures and targets and the weightings attached as TSR and those which reflect appropriate investment strategies, to performance measures part-way through a performance year for example, CROCE as well as measures focused on meeting if one or more events occurs for example an acquisition which specific strategic objectives aligned to long term growth.
causes the Committee to believe an amended or substituted The Committee calibrates these targets by due reference to performance measures, weightings or targets would be more market practice, the Groups strategic plan, general and bespoke appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Discretion market intelligence, lead indicators and other indicators of the may also be exercised in cases where the Committee believes economic environment such that targets may represent relative, that the outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business as well as absolute, achievement.
Any exercise of this discretion will be explained in full to shareholders.
Malus and clawback The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Malus and clawback provisions are included in the Annual Bonus, payments and or payments for loss of office including Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the Co-Investment Plan and the exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such Performance Share Plan.
The circumstances in which malus and payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the clawback could apply include: Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 28 May 2014 the date the Companys first shareholderA material misstatement resulting in an adjustment to the approved directors remuneration policy came into effect : Companys audited consolidated accounts ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that The determination of the number of shares subject to an award the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholderor the assessment of any performance condition was in error or approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they based on inaccurate or misleading information were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, The Board determining in its reasonable opinion that any action or the payment was not in consideration for the individual conduct of the Participant amounts to serious misconduct, fraud becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes or gross misconduct, or payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable Any other circumstances which the Board in its discretion remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of considers to be similar in their nature or effect the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
81 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy Non-executive Directors fees Chief Executive O cer Fees for the Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive 3.88m 4.0 Directors are set at an appropriate level to recruit and retain 3.5 directors of a sufficient calibre to guide and influence board level 3.0 decision making without paying more than is necessary to do so.
2.61m 44% Fees are set taking into account the following factors: 2.5 2.0 41% The time commitment required to fulfil the role 1.5 32% 24% 0.91m Typical practice at other companies of a similar size to 1.0 TravisPerkins 0.5 100% 35% 24% 0 Non-executive fees will normally be reviewed on an annual Minimum In line with Maximum basis in line with general movement of pay within the Company.
expectations Non-executive Director fees policy is to pay: Lon term Annual Fixed variable variable remuneration A basic fee for membership of the Board remuneration remuneration Chief Operatin O cer An additional fee for the Chairman of a Committee and the 3.0 2.82m Senior Independent Director to take into account the additional 2.5 responsibilities and time commitment of the role 47% 1.93m 2.0 Additional fees may be paid to reflect additional Board or Committee responsibilities as appropriate.
The Non-executive 1.5 43% Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
28% 1.0 0.70m 21% Current fees are detailed within the Statement of Implementation 0.5 of the Remuneration Policy.
100% 25% 36% 0 Minimum In line with Maximum A minimum of 25% of Non-executive Director fees is paid in expectations shares.
Non-executive Directors do not receive any other benefits Lon term Annual Fixed other than a staff discount card for purchasing products and are variable variable remuneration remuneration remuneration not eligible to join a company pension scheme.
No compensation Chief Financial O cer is payable on termination of office, which may be without 3.0 2.65m notice from the Company.
They cannot participate in any of 2.5 the Companys share plans.
The Company will pay reasonable 47% expenses incurred by the Chairman and Non-executive Directors 1.80m 2.0 including any tax incurred in relation to these where appropriate.
1.5 43% 28% 1.0 Recruitment remuneration 0.65m 21% 0.5 It is the Groups policy to recruit the best candidate possible for 100% 36% 25% any executive board position.
It seeks to avoid paying more than 0 is considered necessary to secure the candidate and will have Minimum In line with Maximum regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment when formulating expectations the remuneration package.
Lon term Annual Fixed variable variable remuneration remuneration remuneration Generally the Group structures salary, incentives and benefits for candidates in line with the above remuneration policy and accordingly participation in short and long term incentives will be on the same basis as existing directors.
In all cases the Group commits to providing shareholders with timely disclosure of the Fixed remuneration includes basic salary, pension provision terms of any new executive hires including the approach taken and other benefits to determine a fair level of compensation.
The table opposite Annual variable remuneration includes annual bonus potential outlines the Groups normal recruitment policy.
under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, and includes that part of the bonus which is deferred as shares and may be subject to malus Long term variable remuneration includes potential awards under the Performance Share Plan and Co-Investment Plan Performance in line with expectations assumes, for annual variable remuneration, performance in line with annual operating plan.
For long term variable remuneration it assumes mid-range performance relative to the targets set for each plan.
Maximum performance means performance at or in excess of maximum performance targets 82 Remuneration in m Remuneration in m Remuneration in m Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Remuneration Basis of Determination Element Base Salary The pay of any new recruit would be determined following the principles set out and Benefits in the remuneration policy table.
Pension The appointee will be able to receive either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with the Company's policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Annual Bonus The appointee will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus and Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Long-Term Incentives The appointee will be eligible to participate in the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plans as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under scheme rules at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Share Buy-outs The Groups policy is to carefully consider whether a buy out is appropriate.
Should the Committee Replacement Awards determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justify the provision of a buy out, generallybuy out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those awards forfeited taking into account thefollowing: The form of the award The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied Any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value The Performance Share Plan allows for awards to be made outside of the plan limit to facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy out within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement may be used including granting an award under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting of awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Any buy out award made under the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Plan or Long-Term Incentive Plans will not count towards the individuals maximum opportunity under thoseplans.
Relocation Where the Group requires a candidate to relocate in order to take up an executive position it will normally reimburse the reasonable costs of the relocation.
This may include ongoing expenses such as schooling or housing for a reasonable period of time.
Where an internal candidate is promoted to an executive position The Group classifies terminations of employment arising from the Group will honour any contractual commitments made death, ill health, disability, injury, retirement with Company through their employment prior to the promotion.
agreement, redundancy or the transfer from the Group of the employing entity as good leaver reasons.
In addition the Recruitment remuneration for Non-executive Directors would Committee retains discretion under incentive plan rules to be assessed following the principles set out in the policy for determine good leaver status in other circumstances.
In the non-executive director fees.
event such discretion is exercised a full explanation will be provided to shareholders.
Policy on payment for directors leaving employment Contractual notice periods for directors are normally set at 6months notice from the director and 12 months notice from the Company and the Company would normally honour contractual commitments in the event of the termination of a director.
Notwithstanding this approach it is Company policy to seek to minimise liability in the event of any early termination ofadirectors employment.
83 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Leaver reason may impact treatment of the various remuneration elements as follows: Remuneration Good Leaver Reason Other Leaver Reason Element Salary Ceases on cessation of employment salary may be paid in lieu of notice Ceases on cessation of unless a pre-existing contractual term applies.
employment salary may be paid in lieu of notice unless a preexisting contractual term applies.
Bonus including Unpaid bonus from a completed performance period prior to cessation All unpaid bonus payments lapse.
Deferred Share will be paid in full.
For the performance period in which cessation occurs Any unvested deferred bonus Bonus Plan a pro rata bonus may be paid, subject to normal performance conditions.
shares also lapse on leaving.
Any unvested deferred bonus share awards will normally continue until the normal vesting date and vest in full.
The Committee may determine that awards should vest on cessation of employment.
The Committee may also apply time prorating.
Benefits Provision or accrual of benefits will cease on cessation of employment or, if Provision or accrual of benefits later, at the end of the relevant subscription period.
will cease on cessation of employment or, if later, at the end of the relevant subscriptionperiod.
Performance Unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date and remain Unvested awards lapse at Share Plan subject to performance.
Awards will be prorated for time unless the cessation of employment.
Awards would remain subject to any applicable Where a participant ceases holding period.
employment during any holding The Committee may determine that awards should vest and be released period other than for reason at cessation of employment taking into account the extent to which of gross misconduct they will performance targets have been met and unless the Committee decides continue to retain their award in otherwise the period of time elapsed sinceaward.
full and it will be released at the end of the holding period unless Where a participant ceases employment during any holding period other than the Committee determines that for reason of gross misconduct they will continue to retain their award in full the award should be released at and it will be released at the end of the holding period unless the Committee the time of cessation.
determines that the award should be released at the time of cessation.
For awards in the form of options, For awards in the form of options participants will have 6 months from vesting participants will have 6 months to exercise their award.
to exercise any vested awards.
Co-Investment Unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date and remain Unvested awards lapse at Plan subject to performance.
The Committee may determine that awards should vest at cessation of employment taking into account the extent to which performance targets have been met and unless the Committee decides otherwise the period of time elapsed since award.
For awards in the form of options participants will have 6 months from vesting to exercise their award.
Leaver vesting provisions are fully defined in the appropriate plan documents.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company, share where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an awards may vest early.
For the PSP and the Co-Investment Plan existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such the Committee will determine the extent to which awards shall an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any vest taking into account the extent to which the performance claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors conditions have been satisfied and unless the Committee office or employment.
In addition, the Company may pay any determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal that has elapsed.
Deferred share awards will normally vest in full.
or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of In the case of a winding-up, demerger, delisting, special dividend office or employment.
Where a Director was required to relocate or similar circumstances, awards may, at the Committees to take up their role then reasonable repatriation expenses may discretion, vest early on the same basis as for a takeover.
84 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Considering colleagues views Considering shareholders views The Committee reviews information regarding the typical The Committee believes that it is very important to maintain remuneration structure and reward levels for other UK based open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
employees to provide context when determining executive The Committee regularly consults with significant shareholders remuneration policy.
regarding potential changes to remuneration arrangements and the views of shareholders are important in determining any final The Company undertakes an annual engagement survey for changes.
The Committee intends to continue to engage with all Group employees to understand their views on working for shareholders regarding any material changes to remuneration Travis Perkins and how this can be improved.
employee reward is provided as part of this survey.
The Company currently does not consult directly with colleagues when developing the Directors Remuneration Policy.
A significant portion of colleagues are shareholders so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
April Knowles Travis Perkins, Tilbury Range Centre 85 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report The following sets out the Groups Annual Remuneration Report for 2016 which includes details of how its policy was implemented in 2016 and how it intends to implement its policy in 2017.
This report shall be subject to an advisory shareholder vote on 24 May 2017.
Statement of implementation of the remuneration policyin 2017 Individual Maximum Measures Plan Opportunity in 2017 and Weighting Operation Base Salary CEO 690,131 N A John Carters and Tony Buffins salaries 2016: 683,298 were increased by 1% witheffect from 1January2017.
COO 533,283 2016: 528,003 as CFO This increase is in line with the increase received by othercolleagues.
CFO 500,000 Benefits N A N A Benefit entitlement for 2017 is as per policy.
Pension 25% of salary allowance N A Directors participate in a defined contribution or contribution: arrangement or receive a cash allowance.
Annual Bonus CEO 180% max The 2017 bonus will be based For 2017 the Committee decided to replace on the following measures: adjusted EPS with adjusted EBITA as the main COO 150% max financial metric for the annual bonus plan to Adjusted EBITA 60% CFO 150% max focus management on driving operational LAROCE 20% profitablility and costmanagement.
Business strategy 20% Targets are determined in relation to the Groups Annual Operating Plan AOP.
Threshold payment is made for performance just below AOP with maximum only being made for performance in excess of AOP.
For 2017 the strategic tracker includes measures related to the Groups people, customers, multi-channel, cost of goods for sale and strategic IT systems objectives.
50% of bonus earned is deferred as shares for three years.
Performance CEO 150% The 2017 PSP award will Awards are subject to performance over a Share Plan be based on the following three year performance period.
Vesting awards COO 150% measures: are subject to a further 12 month holding period.
CFO 150% Adjusted EPS growth 40% Adjusted EPS threshold target of 3% p. a. growth over 3 years with full vesting at Aggregate cash flow 40% 10%growth.
Relative TSR 20% For 2017, the Committee has decided to delink adjusted EPS targets from RPI to make assessment of performance simpler and more transparent.
The aggregate cash flow range is threshold 867m to maximum 959m.
Relative TSR relative position in FTSE 50-150 Threshold is median relative position Maximum is upper quartile relative position Co-Investment Participants may invest up The 2017 Co-Investment CROCE performance range is target Plan to 50% of their net salary.
matching award will be based 8.4% to9.4%.
on the following measures: Maximum matching awards of twice the gross Cash Return on Capital salary equivalent of the Employed CROCE amount invested i. e. 100% of gross salary.
86 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Long term incentive targets for awards made in 2017 reflect This decline will make the Groups trading environment much the current economic uncertainty and the poorer outlook for more challenging over the next three years.
the construction market since the Group presented its three Given the market challenges faced the Committee decided to year plan: the latest forecast from the Construction Products keep aggregate cashflow and CROCE targets at the same level Association is for a contraction in growth for housing repairs and as for 2016 awards.
As noted above the Committee decided to maintenance spend across 2017-2019.
This is attributed to rising remove the adjusted EPS targets link to RPI.
Given that adjusted inflation and a weaker employment market impacting consumer EPS growth in excess of 30% is required to achieve maximum confidence and the decline in the savings ratios during a period performance, the Committee believes the targets continue to be of macro-economic uncertainty.
Given these external economic challenging and appropriate.
factors, the plan is underpinned by the market outlook on housing transactions Council of Mortgage Lenders latest forecast The Company operates different performance measures for which the Committee views as a good indicator of future repair, the PSP and the CIP as it considered that it is important that maintenance and improvement spend.
Over the past 10-15 years the incentives are used to drive performance in different areas.
there has been a strong correlation between this index and the This has been the case since the CIP was introduced and is well Groups revenues.
Whilst transaction trends in 2016 were difficult understood by management.
to read, due to the step-up in stamp duty on the purchase of Bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive, second homes in March 2016 and the subsequent steep declines and disclosure of such may provide an unfair advantage to the following the result of the EU referendum, housing transactions Companys competitors.
However targets, and the corresponding significantly decreased towards the end of 2016 and this decline level of vesting or bonus earned, will be disclosed retrospectively, has been forecast to continue into 2017, levelling in 2018 before in the relevant reporting period.
For Non-executive Directors Fees and In line with the Groups remuneration policy Non-executive Directors fees were reviewed and increased by 1%, Benefits in line with general increases across the Group, with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Committee chair fees were increased further to recognise the more significant work and time commitment required in these roles.
Chairman 282,326 2016: 279,531 Non-executive Director basic fee 57,511 2016: 56,942 Chairs of Audit and Remuneration Committees 17,000 2016: 12,424 Senior Independent Director 12,500 2016: 10,353 Chairman of Health & Safety Committee 10,000 2016: 8,000 Remuneration elsewhere in the Group Over 23,000 colleagues are active members of a Group pension scheme.
Under the defined contribution scheme contribution rates The Committee takes into account remuneration packages made by the Group range from 1% to 20% of qualifying earnings available to all colleagues when considering executive pay.
Aswith with all employees able to maximise company contributions to many companies, senior management participate in a wider range at least 6% of qualifying earnings.
The defined benefits schemes of incentives than the majority of colleagues.
TheGroup recognises are closed to new members.
The Group recognises that many that it has to operate on this basis to attract and retain high-quality colleagues find the pension environment complex.
Consequently managers, but ensures that a significantly higher proportion of one of the key aims of the Groups financial wellbeing programme, reward for this group is placed on variable incentiveoutcomes.
launched in 2017, is to provide a broad range of financial education All colleagues are entitled to a competitive remuneration and guidance including, but not limited to, retirement provision.
package that includes basic pay, bonus, pension and the The Groups Sharesave scheme continues to be a great success.
To provide In 2016, 6,531 colleagues took up the invitation to participate on the Groups colleagues easy access to their benefits the Group either 3 or 5 year contracts committing to savings contracts of operates an online benefits platform which can be accessed 29.5m.
Plans maturing in 2016 delivered gains of approximately through work or home computers, mobile phones or tablets.
2.8m shared across the 3,334 participating colleagues.
Thehub is open to all employees of the Group and it provides detailed information about all the rewards and benefits that are included in the MyPerks scheme as well as specific access to colleague rewards, flexible benefits where employees can trade some of their benefits in favour of others or elect to increase or decrease their benefits to suit their lifestyle or circumstances, discounts, advice and guidance.
Coline McConville was appointed a non-executive director on 1 February 2015 2.
Andrew Simon retired on 31 October 2015 3.
LTI reported for 2016 for John Carter and Tony Buffin include LTI awards vesting in March 2017.
The value of these awards has been calculated based on the average share price for the last quarter of 2016 of 14.19683 4.
LTI reported for 2015 for John Carter and Tony Buffin were reported on an estimated basis using the average share price of the final quarter of 2015.
Annual bonus for 2016 The tables below provide a summary of the performance achieved under the annual bonus for 2016: Maximum Bonus Actual Bonus Actual Director Opportunity % of salary Bonus John Carter 180% 42.3% 289,035 Tony Buffin 150% 34.4% 181,527 All bonus earned in respect of 2016 performance is included in the annual bonus column in the single figure table.
Half of the bonus earned is deferred as shares for three years.
89 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Bonus earned is based upon achievement of the following Group financial targets: Targets Performance Actual Pay-out as a Weighting Measure Performance % of maximum Threshold Plan Maximum Adjusted EPS 60% 122.6p 129p 135.5p 120.4p 0% LAROCE 20% 10.5% 10.9% 11.3% 10.7% 27.5% The Committee assessed performance against a number 90.0% CEO Business 20% of strategic targets which were set at the start of the year.
87.1% CFO Strategy A summary of performance is provided below.
LAROCE for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 10.7%.
For comparative purposes in the report and accounts the opening capital employed at 1 January 2016 was restated to reflect the impairment charge in respect of goodwill and other assets made at 31December 2016.
This restatement resulted in LAROCE increasing to 10.9% for accounting purposes.
Further details are given in note36.
Measure Summary of Performance Committees Assessment People There was good deployment of the Stay Safe strategy across the operational Met in part divisions during 2016.
The framework for Stay Safe risk assessments was implemented across most of the Group.
Based on these risk assessments there were a number of areas identified where improvements could be made.
Plans were implemented which resulted in a reduction in speeding offences and rest break and other tachograph infringements across a number of business units.
Targets to implement plans to improve safety around manual handling were mostly met across all divisions.
Customer The overall customer satisfaction score improved 7% over 2015 and was Met in full significantly ahead of target demonstrating strong progress against our customer proposition objectives.
Network Delivering growth from new space is an important generator of long-term Met in full shareholder value.
The new stores opened during 2016 have delivered strong sales resulting in the total Group sales growth delivered from new space target being met in full.
Multi-Channel Year-on-year growth for online sales in Wickes, Toolstation, Plumbnation, Met in full TileGiant, Tile HQ, Tile Magic and Insulation Giant has been very strong.
The rate of growth was almost 50% ahead of performance last year and was significantly ahead of target.
COGS GNFR Savings Annualised savings from COGS and GNFR programmes were achieved, resulting Met in full in improvements to the business in many areas.
IT System Delivery of a broad and significant portfolio of IT programmes was achieved, Good progress resulting in improvements to the business in many areas.
Personal Individual objectives specific to individual priorities: CEO Met in full The CEOs objective related to the implementation and execution of plans to increase the strength of the management team.
The Committee was pleased with the progress made in identifying and developing high potential individuals and judged that this had been met in full.
CFO The CFOs personal objective related to improvements in systems as well Good progress as reducing costs in relation to these to further support performance.
The Committee judged that good performance had been made against these metrics.
Goods Not For Resale 90 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration In 2016 the political landscape was dominated by the result of the EU referendum.
The resultant economic uncertainty acutely impacted the construction and housing markets, and has been particularly difficult for domestic UK businesses.
In this context, the Group delivered a resilient financial performance.
Adjusted EPS was slightly behind 2015 and just below the threshold target for bonus purposes.
The Group delivered strong LAROCE performance ahead of 2015 and the threshold targets.
As outlined above, the Committee judged that there was strong performance against the strategic tracker particularly in relation to online sales growth, sales from new space, customer satisfaction and commercial programmes.
The strategic tracker is an important part of the short term incentive.
It focuses short-term management effort towards delivering on strategic goals which are considered critical for delivering long term returns and sustainability of performance.
The Committee considered that the level of bonus awarded was appropriate, reflecting strong progress against strategic objectives and resilient financial performance in a challenging economic environment.
Long-term incentive plans LTIP The long-term incentive figure in the single figure is made up of the following plans: Performance Share Co-Investment Deferred Share Plan Plan Bonus Plan Total 443,801 540,122 328,333 28,857 shares plus 35,120 shares plus 21,349 shares plus John Carter 1,312,256 34,123 cash in lieu 41,529 in lieu 25,245 in lieu of dividends of dividends of dividends 342,948 417,364 221,324 22,299 shares plus 27,138 shares plus 14,391 shares plus Tony Buffin 981,636 26,359 in lieu 32,091 in lieu 17,017 in lieu of dividends of dividends of dividends The value of shares vesting has been calculated with reference to the average price over the last quarter of 2016 of 14.19683.
Performance Share Plan The following table sets out the performance targets, achievements and vesting levels for the Performance Share Award granted in 2014 and vesting in 2017 in respect of performance period ending in 2016: Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting EPS Growth 40% RPI 3% pa RPI 10% pa 16.7% 14% Relative TSR 20% Median Upper quartile Below median 0% Aggregate Cash 40% 802m 887m 903m 40% Flow Total Vesting 54% Relative total shareholder return performance was measured against companies ranked 50-150 in the FTSE index on the date of award.
Co-Investment Plan The following table sets out the performance targets, achievements and vesting levels for the matching awards granted in 2014 and vesting in respect of 2017: Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Actual Vesting Cash Return on 100% 8.37% 9.37% 9.32% 97% Capital Employed Total Vesting 97% 91 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Directors pension entitlements The Companys defined benefit pension DB schemes are closed to new members.
John Carter ceased DB accrual on 31 December 2010 and took his benefits from the scheme on 1 November 2016.
In lieu of pension contribution gross cash allowance of 25% of salary was paid to John Carter.
Tony Buffin received 25% of salary paid as a mix of pension contributions to the DC scheme and a cash allowance.
John Carter Tony Buffin 000 000 Pension value in the year from company contributions to DC scheme N A 17 Pension value in year from cash allowance salary supplement in place of Employer 171 117 pension contributions Total Pension Benefit Accrued in 2016 171 134 Share interests awarded during the financial year Performance Share Plan % Vesting Date of Type of at Lower Face Performance Award Award Basis Target Value Period 988,353 John Carter 55,432 shares at 1 January 2016 17.83 p share 4 March Performance 150% 30% to 2016 Shares of Salary 763,730 31 December 2018 Tony Buffin 42,834 shares at 17.83 p share Performance Share Plan awards are subject to the following performance measures: Measure Weighting Target Range Vesting Range Lower target RPI 3% per annum over the vestingperiod Adjusted EPS Growth 40% Maximum target No vesting below lower target RPI 10% per annum over the vesting period Lower target 30% vests Aggregate Cash Flow over Lower target 867m 40% the performance period Maximum target 959m Maximum target 100% vests Lower target median Pro rata vesting between these points performance top 50% Company TSR Relative to Maximum target 20% FTSE 50-150 Index upper quartile performance top 25% Co-Investment Plan % Vesting Date of Type of at Lower Face Performance Award Award Basis Target Value Period 669,330 John Carter 37,000 shares at Up to 2:1 1 January 2016 18.09 p share 1 April Matching matching 30% to 2016 Shares of shares 517,229 31 December 2018 purchased Tony Buffin 28,592 shares at 18.09 p share 92 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Co-Investment Plan matching awards are subject to the following performance measure: Measure Weighting Target Detail Matching Range 0.6:1 matching at lower target Cash Return on Lower target 8.4% Capital Employed CROCE 100% 2:1 matching at maximum target over the performance period Maximum target 9.4% Pro rata matching between these points Deferred Share Bonus Plan Shares awarded during 2016 Half of the bonus earned in respect of 2015 performance was awarded as deferred shares as follows: Date of Award Face Value Number of shares Share price John Carter 19.76 192,973 9,767 4 March 2016 Tony Buffin 19.76 124.276 6,290 The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded was the average share price for the last 30 days of the Companys financial year.
The shares awarded are split into two equal tranches.
Tranche 1 will vest after one year if the target share price of 21.31 is met for a 30 day period during that year.
Tranche 2 will vest after two years if the target share price of 22.31 is met for a 30 day period during the two years following grant.
The relevant 30 day average share price will be inflated to include any dividends paid per share during the relevant period.
If the target share price is not met, 50% of the award will lapse.
The remaining shares under Tranche 1 and Tranche 2 which are not subject to the above forfeiture conditions will vest at the end of the two year vesting period, subject to continued employment in the Travis Perkins Group.
Half of the bonuses earned in 2016 will be issued as deferred shares as follows: Type of Award Basis Face Value John Carter 144,518 Shares 50% of 2016 bonus Tony Buffin 90,764 Shares vest three years from grant.
No new grants were made to the Executive Directors under the allemployee Sharesave SAYE plan during 2016. timing for the forfeited awards.
These shares will be subject Unaudited information to continued employment and have no further performance Remuneration arrangements for the CFO conditions reflecting the terms of the forfeited awards.
Alan Williams was appointed to the role of CFO with effect Performance Share Plan Alan will also be made an award from3 January 2017. of shares with a value of 740,796 the value of awards Salary, pension and benefits Alans salary is 500,000 per forfeited including dividends on these shares.
This is annum, his pension contribution is 25% of base salary and his equivalent to 51,584 shares.
These awards compensate him benefits are in line with those set out in our remuneration policy.
for Performance Share awards made in 2014 and 2015.
An assumed vesting rate of 80% has been applied based on an Performance incentives These remain unchanged from the estimate of vesting for these awards at his former employer.
approved arrangements for the former CFO, Tony Buffin.
His As a condition of this award, Alan was required to purchase maximum annual bonus will be 150% of base salary and he will shares in the Company with a value of at least half the award receive a maximum award of 150% of base salary under the using his own funds and retain these shares for the vesting Performance Share Plan.
Alan will also be eligible to invest up period.
Prior to joining Alan invested 557,600 to purchase to 50% of his post-tax salary under the Co-Investment Plan and 40,000 shares.
The shares awarded will vest 12 months and receive a maximum matching award of up to 100% of salary.
24 months after the award is made and will be subject to Forfeited incentives On leaving his former employer Alan forfeited continued employment and the achievement of stretching role outstanding incentives under his deferred bonus and performance specific objectives over these periods.
The Committee determined that it wasappropriate to The value of these buy-out awards were calculated based buy-out these incentives.
The buy-out awards have been structured on the average Greencore and Travis Perkins share prices as far as possible to be on a like-for-like basis with awards he has between the date on which Alans appointment was announced forfeited being compensated in accordance with our remuneration 20September 2016 and 3 January 2017 when he joined.
Inaddition Alan made a significant personal investment in value of this buy-out is lower than originally announced due to a TravisPerkins shares prior tothe awards being granted.
fall in Greencores share price over this period.
Deferred bonus shares Alan will be made an award of The buy-out awards outlined above will be made in March 2017 shares with a value of 573,002 the value of awards forfeited under the Listing Rules provision 9.4.
2 which allows for awards including dividends on these awards to compensate him on a one-off basis in exceptional circumstances.
Details of the for deferred shares awarded in respect of 2014 and 2015. awards and the performance targets will be included in the 2017 This is equivalent to 39,900 shares.
These shares will vest in Annual Remuneration Report.
December 2017 and December 2018 in line with the vesting 93 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Payments to past directors decide to scale back or withhold participation in long-term incentives if the requirements are not met or maintained.
Executive directors are No payments were made to past directors.
required to hold shares valued at 2 times annual salary within 5 years.
As at 31 December 2016 John Carters shareholding was in excess of Payments for leaving directors 5 times salary and Tony Buffins 3 times salary.
Onappointment Alan No payments for loss of office were made during 2016.
Williams purchased 40,000 shares equivalent to 1.2 times salary.
Directors shareholdings and share interests as at Directors shareholding and share interests 31December2016 were as follows: executive directors Formal shareholding requirements not voluntary guidelines apply to executive directors and senior executives.
The committee may Unvested Interests Conditional Unconditional Options Qualifying Shares Shares Subject to Vested but Towards Executive Beneficial Granted Under Granted Under Performance Unexercised Total Shareholder 1 2 3 Director Owner LTI Plans LTI Plans Conditions Options Interests Requirement John Carter 258,044 284,984 21,723 1,573 6,776 573,100 264,820 Tony Buffin 123,149 218,926 14,708 0 5,007 361,790 128,157 1.
Inc ludes awards made under Deferred Share Bonus Plan subject to a share price performance test, Unapproved Performance Share Plan and Co-Investment Plan.
Includes awards made under Deferred Share Bonus Plan which are not subject to a performance condition and Sharesave.
Market value options awarded under the HMRC tax-advantaged CSOP element of the PSP.
These awards are subject to the same performance conditions as outlined below for the PSP award.
There were no changes in executive directors share ownership between 31 December 2016 and 13 March 2017, with the exception of: John Carter who exercised 21,348 options and sold 10,055 shares under the 2014 and 2015 Deferred Share Bonus Plans on 9 March 2017 bringing his beneficial shareholding to 269,337: TonyBuffin who acquired 10,000 shares on 2 March 2017 and exercised and sold 5,007 shares under the 2014 Deferred Share Bonus Plan on 7 March 2017 bringing his beneficial shareholding to 133,149: and Alan Williams whose spouse acquired 30,000 shares on 3 March 2017 bringing his beneficial shareholding to 70,000.
During 2016 the following awards vested and were then exercised: John Carter Vested & Exercised Price per Share Performance Share Plan 50,055 17.82 Performance Share Plan 4,326 19.26 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 6,777 17.82 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 3,102 18.04 Share Matching Scheme 16,485 17.82 Tony Buffin Vested & Exercised Price per Share Performance Share Plan 46,779 18.32 Performance Share Plan 4,042 18.01 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 5,007 17.82 Directors shareholding and share interests non-executive directors Beneficial Shareholding Beneficial Shareholding Non-executive Director as at 31 December 2016 as at 13 March 2017 Ruth Anderson 2,873 3,040 Coline McConville 939 1,106 Pete Redfern 8,017 8,174 Christopher Rogers 6,173 6,342 John Rogers 928 1,065 Robert Walker 77,703 78,649 Between 31 December 2016 and 13 March 2017 non-executive directors share ownership increased in accordance with the Companys non-executive director fee structure.
94 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Service contracts Outside appointments Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract, which Travis Perkins recognises that its Executive Directors may be will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
or at the Companys registered office.
These contracts provide Such non-executive duties can broaden a directors experience for 6 months notice from the Directors and 12 months notice and knowledge which can benefit Travis Perkins.
They do not specify any particular level of compensation in the event of termination or change of control.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are The date these contracts were entered into are as follows: allowed to accept non-executive appointments, provided that these appointments will not lead to conflicts of interest, and they may John Carter 1 January 2014 retain the fees received.
John Carter does not currently hold any Tony Buffin 8 April 2013 non-executive appointments.
Tony Buffin has been a non-executive director of the Dyson family business since 2014.
Tonyearned and Alan Williams 3 January 2017 retained fees of 40,000 during 2016 2015: 40,000.
Non-executive Directors do not have a service contract, but each has received a letter of appointment which will be Funding of equity awards available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or at Executive incentive arrangements are funded by shares theCompanys registered office.
These appointments expire purchased in the market.
Entitlements under the HMRC approved onthe followingdates: all colleague Sharesave scheme are satisfied by newly issued shares.
Where shares are newly issued, the Company complies Director Expiry of Appointment Letter with Investment Association dilution guidelines on their issue.
The current dilution usage of all share plans is c. 5.4% of shares Ruth Anderson May 2018 in issue.
There is no dilution due to discretionary executive plans Coline McConville May 2018 as shares are purchased in the market to satisfy these awards.
Where shares are purchased in the market, these are held by Pete Redfern May 2018 a trust in which case the voting rights relating to the shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary Christopher Rogers May 2020 duties.
At 31 December 2016 the Trust held 729,680 shares.
John Rogers May 2018 Performance graph and table Robert Walker May 2018 For comparative purposes the FTSE 100 Index has been selected In accordance with best practice, the Non-executive Directors as this is the index of which the Company was a member during stand for re-election annually.
No compensation is payable on termination of the employment of non-executive directors, which may be with or without notice.
Total shareholder return Total Shareholder Return 900 800 Travis Perkins plc 700 FTSE 100 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20152016 TSR is rebased to 100 from 1 January 2008 95 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Historic CEO pay 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Single Figure Remuneration 1,412 1,423 1,938 3,506 2,044 2,634 2,360 2,499 000 Annual Bonus Payout % of maximum 100% 100% 75.9% 27.0% 62.9% 89% 31.9% 23.8% Vesting of Share Options 0% - - - - - - - % of maximum Vesting of Performance - 0% 0% 80.0% 37.4% 44.8% 96.8% 54% Share Plan % of maximum Vesting of Co-Investment Plan SMS 0% 0% 51% 100% 0% 0% 44.2% 97% % of maximum Data for 2014-16 relates to John Carter, earlier data relates to the previous CEO, Geoff Cooper.
Change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of CEO Percentage Change Percentage Change Percentage Change in Salary Earned in Bonus Opportunity Earned in Taxable Benefits Received 2016 full year compared 2016 full year forecast compared 2015 16 tax year compared to 2015 full year to 2015 full year to 2014 15 tax year CEO 1.5% -8.1% 6.1% Comparative 1.95% -0.2% 0.8% Employee Group Comparator group is all colleagues within the Travis Perkins Merchanting Division.
This division is the largest division within the Company, covers roles at all levels of the organisation, and has wide geographic coverage within the UK and consequently provides a broad and diverse basis for comparison.
The provision of benefits to the CEO has not changed across the two periods The increase value is entirely attributable to the increased BIK charge associated with allocated company car and fuel.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 2015 900 900 800 800 700 700 600 600 500 500 400 400 840 780 300 300 200 200 242 293 100 100 62 48 111 100 0 0 Distribution Capex Corporation Employee Distribution Capex Corporation Employee to Tax Remuneration to Tax Remuneration Shareholders Shareholders Capital expenditure is shown, for comparison, as an indicator Corporation tax is included as indicator of wider societal of investment by the Company in future growth.
It includes funds contribution facilitated by the Companys operations and invested in the purchase of property, plant and equipment.
is the actual amount of corporation tax paid in the relevant reportingperiods.
96 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance Deloitte provided additional services to the Company in relation to remuneration including support in developing Remuneration Committee and consideration by the and implementing remuneration proposals, compensation Directors of matters relating to directors remuneration benchmarking and other tax and consulting services.
During the year the Committee comprised Coline McConville Chairman, Peter Redfern and John Rogers, all of whom In addition John Carter CEO, Tony Buffin CFO during 2016, are independent non-executive directors, and the Company Deborah Grimason Company Secretary, Carol Kavanagh Group Chairman Robert Walker.
Human Resources Director, Helen OKeefe Deputy Company Secretary and Paul Nelson Group Head of Reward have Deloitte was appointed by the Committee in December 2015 assisted the Committee in its work, but never in respect of their to provide independent advice on executive remuneration.
Deloitte was selected following an interview process.
Deloitte are founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Responsibilities Code of Conduct and adhere to this Code in its dealings with the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided and implementing the remuneration policy within the Company.
by Deloitte is objective and independent.
The Committee is It determines all aspects of the remuneration of executive comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team directors and reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration that provides remuneration advice to the Committee do not of other senior executives.
The Committee also oversees the have connections with the Company that may impair their administration of the Companys share plans.
The Committee reviewed the potential for terms of reference are available on the Company website or from conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate the Company Secretary.
Fees are charged on a time and materials basis.
During the year Deloitte was paid 68,650 for advice provided to the Committee.
97 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Key items discussed in 2016 meetings In 2016 the Remuneration Committee formally met four times with additional conference calls as required.
The Committee discussed amongst others the following matters: Month Key Issues Considered February Co-Investment Plan vesting Bonus outcomes and personal objectives LTIP targets for 2016 awards Executive and leadership salaries March 2015 bonus achievement 2016 bonus plans 2015 Directors Remuneration report LTIP vesting and awards May Remuneration policy renewal in 2017 July Remuneration policy renewal in 2017 and outcomes of shareholder consultation Review of progress against 2016 annual bonus targets September Remuneration policy renewal in 2017 and outcomes of shareholder consultation Executive Committee appointments November Salary review 2017 Review of remuneration trends and issues Review of 2016 performance Remuneration policy renewal in 2017 and outcomes of shareholder consultation Format for Directors Remuneration report 2017 December Directors salary review 2017 Remuneration policy renewal in 2017 and outcomes of shareholder consultation Directors Remuneration Report Committee governance Shareholder voting At the last AGM the following resolutions in relation to remuneration were put by the Company: Votes % Votes Against % Votes Withheld Resolution For For Against To receive and approve the 169,930,556 97.8% 3,873,640 2.2% 1,310,991 Directors Remuneration Report To receive and approve the 147,358,040 93.3% 10,622,997 6.7% 3,478,935 Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf.
Coline McConville Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 March 2017 98 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance & Remuneration Wickes, Rugby 99
