CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT ON REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring Executive Directors are rewarded for the long-term success of the Company rather than short-term returns.
Simon Thompson will step down from DEAR SHAREHOLDER the role of Chairman and from the Tullow On behalf of the Board, I am presenting Board.
As part of the Committee and the Remuneration Committees Boards review of non-executive Director Committees report for 2016 on fees for 2017, Simons annual fee will Directors remuneration.
The report is reduce by 10 per cent to 280,000 from again split into three main sections: 1 January 2017 until his leaving date.
this Annual Statement, which Aidan Heav ey, currently Chief Executive provides a summary of the year Officer, will be appointed as nonunderreview and the Committees executive Chairman for a transition intentions going forward: period of up to two years, subject to the Directors Remuneration shareholder approval at the AGM.
PolicyReport, which sets out the From the conclusion of the AGM, Aidan forward-looking three-year Directors will continue to receive his current Remuneration Policy for the Company remuneration including all benefits which will operate from 1 January 2017 for a period of six months.
This amount and will, subject to shareholder was determined to be appropriate by the approval, become formally effective Committee and includes consideration from the 2017 Annual General for: i Aidans service as Chairman of Meeting AGM : and the Board: ii compensation for abridging his contractual notice period with the the Annual Report on Remuneration Group: and iii Aidan being available, provides details of the remuneration on an exclusive and full-time basis for earned by Directors in the year ended this six-month period.
Then, Aidan will The Committee is 31 December 2016 and how the new receive a Chairmans fee of 280,000 particularly pleased with Remuneration Policy will be operated per annum which is in line with the in 2017. the achievement of strategic reduced Chairmans fee in effect as at financing which ensured 1 January 2017.
Following the initial 2017 Board Changes six-month period, Aidan will be funding capacity for 2016 On 11 January 2017, Tullow announced a expected to dedicate at least 70 days in a downside environment number of changes to its Board which per year to his duties as Chairman.
will all become effective following the and the successful delivery Ann Grant will retire and will be replaced Companys AGM on 26 April 2017: of the TEN Project which as Senior Independent Director SID Paul McDade, currently Chief Operating produced first oil on-target by Jeremy Wilson.
With the previous Officer, will be appointed Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer becoming in August 2016.
This follows an internal and non-executive Chairman, the Jeremy Wilson external process led by Tullows Committee isaware that the SID role Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Pauls base will have increased responsibilities  salary of 725,000 is around 18 per and will require more time and effort cent lower than his predecessors, and than inprevious years.
Accordingly the rest of his remuneration package the Committee has proposed to has been set in line with the proposed increase the SID fee from 10,000 2017 Remuneration Policy asat January 2017 to 40,000 from seepages86 to 89.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Summary of major decisions made in2016 The Committee believes that these proposals will better align In 2016, assisted by our remuneration advisers PwC, the the interests of management and shareholders, incentivise, Committee has conducted a thorough review of the Remuneration motivate and retain our valued Executive Directors and help us Policy which was approved by shareholders in 2014 for the move forward in what promises to be an exciting and challenging three-year period ending in December 2016 the 2014 Policy.
Further details of the rationale for the The review has taken into account feedback already received changes are shown in the Directors Remuneration Policy Report.
from major shareholders and emerging best practice, including the report of the Investment Association dated 3 July 2016 and Performance and reward for 2016 the final report of the Executive Remuneration Working Group The Committee continues to monitor executive base salaries in dated July 2016.
As a result of this review, we are proposing a an effort to remain competitive and appropriately placed in the number of amendments to our Directors Remuneration Policy international oil and gas industry.
Base salaries are reviewed for the period 2017 to 2019 the 2017 Policy.
annually, taking into account the factors set out in the appended policy table.
The Committee continued to use the approved 2014 2017 Policy Policy during 2016.
At the start of 2016, and for the third The Committee believes that the basic structure and underlying consecutive year, Executive Director base salaries were frozen to principles of the 2014 Policy, including its link to the Groups reflect the continued streamlining and refocusing of the business ongoing strategy and business goals, remains appropriate for and the ongoing difficulties of our business sector, representing a Tullow and is accordingly proposing that many components of reduction in base salaries in real terms.
For 2017, other than the the 2014 Policy remain the same for the 2017 Policy.
However, salary increase for Paul McDade on appointment to his new role we are recommending some specific amendments to increase as Chief Executive Officer, in light of the current state of the flexibility, to simplify the remuneration structure and to provide oiland gas markets, the Committee believes it is appropriate challenging yet incentivising targets for our Executive Directors.
tomaintain the freeze on the base salaries for the fourth year As a result of a benchmarking exercise, we are also recommending running of the other Tullow Executive Directors for the coming that the maximum opportunity for performance-related pay be year.
This represents afurther decrease in salaries in real terms.
Set out below are the main features of the 2017 Policy The performance targets set for 2016 in respect of the TIP highlighting the changes from the 2014 Policy, which are awards to be granted in 2017 were challenging in the context explained in greater detail in the Remuneration Policy Report.
ofthe time and proved even more so as the year progressed.
Tullow Incentive Plan TIP Although Tullows share price increased greatly during the year The maximum annual award opportunity to be reduced from and relative TSR against the comparator group in 2016 was in 600 per cent of base salary to 400 per cent of base salary.
the upper quartile, TSR is measured over three years for the purposes of the TIP.
It is therefore again disappointing to report Full vesting of the TSR performance condition to be a nil contribution for the TSR measure, which made up 50 per cent triggered at upper quartile 75th percentile performance of the corporate scorecard.
instead of upper quintile 80th percentile.
However, the Group again scored well on its financial, Discretion to settle any portion of the annual cash bonus production, organisational and strategic targets for the year.
component of a TIP award in deferred shares.
The Committee is particularly pleased with the achievement of strategic financing which ensured funding capacity for 2016 in a Other changes downside environment and the successful delivery of the TEN Minimum shareholding requirement for Executive Directors Project which produced first oil on-target in August 2016. of 300 per cent of base salary in owned shares deferred shares are no longer included in the calculation.
The net result of these various factors produced an overall KPIperformance of 38.8 per cent, resulting in a cash bonus of Reductions in the Chairmans fee from 310,500 to 280,000 97 per cent of salary and a further 97 per cent of salary awarded and in the base non-executive Director fee from 69,500 to in shares deferred for five years.
Full details of performance 60,000, effective 1 January 2017. against the KPIs is shown on pages 16 and 21. www.
com 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shareholder dialogue COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION Your views are very important to the Board of Tullow and we are committed to providing you with clarity and transparency about FIXED PAY these key changes to our 2017 Policy.
The Committee will again consult major shareholders ahead of any significant future BASE SALARY changes to policy, although it is intended that the 2017 Policy for which approval will be sought at the 2017 AGM will remain in operation for the forthcoming three years.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank shareholders for their significant vote approving the 2015 Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration at the last AGM and look PENSION & BENEFITS forward to your continued support in approving the new Pension remuneration policy for 2017 onwards.
Benefits As part of the Board changes coming into effect following the AGM Medical insurance in April, I will be stepping down as Remuneration Committee Permanent health insurance Chairman and will be replaced by my fellow non-executive Life assurance Director, Tutu Agyare.
For continuity, I will however continue to serve as a member of the Committee.
Steve Lucas will also step down from the Committee, and will be replaced by Mike Daly, also from the conclusion of the AGM.
I would like to thank Steve for his contributions to the Committee during his tenure, and wish Tutu well in his new role as Chairman.
PERFORMANCE RELATED If you have any comments or questions on any element of the report, please email me at remunerationchair@tullowoil.
TULLOW INCENTIVE PLAN Annual award of cash up to 100 per cent of salary Balance awarded in shares up to 400 per cent salary.
Jeremy Wilson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 February 2017 TOTAL REMUNERATION Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting Capex Capital expenditure DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan EHS Environment, Health & Safety ESOS 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs Opex Operating expenses PSP Performance Share Plan SIP UK Share Incentive Plan TIP Tullow Incentive Plan TSR Total Shareholder Return 82 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts O DRR TLW AR16 CG.
indd 3 23 02 2017 14:45:45 2 Preparation of this report In general, these differences exist to ensure that remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with the arrangements are market competitive for all levels of role in requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Large and the Company.
Whilst there is a performance link to Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports remuneration for all employees, in the case of the Executive Amendment Regulations 2013, which came into force Directors and Senior Management, a greater emphasis tends on1October 2013 and which set out the reporting to be placed on variable pay given their opportunity to impact requirements in respect of Directors remuneration and the directly upon Company performance.
The legislation requires the external auditor to state whether, in its opinion, the parts of the report that are Summary of Directors remuneration policy subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with Key changes for 2017 the relevant legislation and these parts have been highlighted.
The Committee believes that the basic structure of the previous Remuneration Policy has worked well to align the interests of our Executives and our shareholders.
The changes proposed DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT by the Committee are set out in the table overleaf and are This part of the Remuneration Report sets out the proposed designed to provide increased flexibility in the Remuneration Remuneration Policy for the Company which is intended to Policy to respond to volatile market conditions and to re-align be effective following approval from shareholders through a Executive compensation with peer companies, both in the binding vote at the AGM to be held in April 2017.
The previous international exploration and production sector and having Remuneration Policy for the Company commenced on regard to FTSE companies of similar current market capitalisation.
1January 2014 and became formally effective following approval from shareholders through a binding vote at the AGM Significant changes in the 2017 Policy include: held in April 2014.
This section also explains how the proposed Remuneration Policy will be operated during 2017.
1 Executive Directors The maximum annual award opportunity for the TIP to be Policy overview reduced from 600 per cent of base salary to 400 per cent The principles of the Remuneration Committee Committee ofbase salary.
are to ensure that remuneration is linked to Tullows strategy The period from 2014 to 2016 saw a dramatic decline in oil and promotes the attraction, motivation and retention of the prices and in Tullows share price.
We remain focused on highest quality executives who are key to delivering sustainable increasing shareholder value and re-entering the FTSE 100 long-term value growth and substantial returns to shareholders.
However, following feedback from shareholders, consultation with PwC and completion of Consideration of shareholders views abenchmarking exercise, the Committee believes that a The Committee considers shareholder feedback received at the 600per cent multiplier is inappropriate for Tullows current AGM each year and, more generally, guidance from shareholder position within the FTSE, despite stretching performance representative bodies.
This feedback, plus any additional targets that make that level of reward achievable only in feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is exceptional circumstances.
We are therefore recommending considered as part of the Companys annual review of the a reduction in the maximum award opportunity to 400 per continuing appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy.
cent of base salary to better reflect our current market position.
In the event that the Company returns to the Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group FTSE 100 Index and remains there for an entire financial In setting the Remuneration Policy and remuneration levels for year, the Committee reserves the right, at its sole Executive Directors, the Committee is cognisant of the approach discretion, to increase the multiplier to 500 per cent to rewarding employees in the Group and levels of pay increases of base salary for the subsequent year.
The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on the Executive pay policy, but it does receive regular Full vesting of the TSR performance condition to be triggered at updates from Claire Hawkings, Vice President, Organisational upper quartile 75th percentile performance instead of upper Strategy & Effectiveness VP OS&E.
In consultation with PwC, the Committee determined that The following differences exist between the Companys policy amaximum vesting of the TSR performance condition at for the remuneration of Executive Directors, as detailed in the upper quartile performance was appropriate and in line summary table overleaf, and its approach to the payment of with industry practice within the FTSE and internationally.
employees generally: Particularly in light of the 200 per cent reduction to the benefits offered to other employees generally include a overall maximum award opportunity the Committee believes performance bonus award of up to 35 per cent of salary: that this is an appropriate adjustment to provide a challenging yet achievable incentive to the Executive Directors.
pension provision of a payment of 10 per cent of salary intoour Company defined contribution plan, increasing to15percent of salary for employees over 50: and participation in the TIP is limited to the Executive Directors and Senior Management according to their role and responsibility.
All other employees are eligible to participate in the Companys below Board level share-based plans.
com 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1 Executive Directors continued As part of the fee reductions recommended above, the fee Discretion to settle any portion of the annual cash bonus for our current Senior Independent Director, Ann Grant, component of a Tullow Incentive Plan TIP award in decreases from 15,000 to 10,000 until her retirement deferred shares.
In view of the increased responsibilities and time commitment of the SID role in the new Tullow Board from TIP awards consist of a short-term bonus component 26 April 2017, it is proposed the SID fee will then however usually paid in cash and a long-term incentive component be increased to40,000.
paid in deferred shares with a five-year vesting term.
Anumber of institutional investor bodies, governance From the conclusion of the AGM, Aidan Heavey will continue agencies and advisory firms encourage the deferral of a to receive his current remuneration including all benefits portion of cash bonus into deferred shares.
The Committee for a period of six months.
This amount was determined to believes that the TIP properly balances short-term cash be appropriate by the Committee and includes incentives with long-term share-based awards but that in consideration for: i Aidans service as Chairman of the certain circumstances it may be appropriate for the cash Board: ii compensation for abridging his contractual notice component to be partially deferred into shares with a period with the Group: and iii Aidan being available, on an vesting period not less than one year from the date of grant.
exclusive and full-time basis for this six-month period.
This discretion would provide the Committee with greater Following the conclusion of this six-month period, Aidan flexibility to craft awards that are appropriate to the will receive a Chairmans fee of 280,000 per annum which performance of the Company in a given year while also is in line with the reduced Chairmans fee in effect as at 1 ensuring proper alignment of the interests of the Executive January 2017.
Following the initial six-month period, Aidan Directors and our shareholders.
will be expected to dedicate at least 70 days per year to his duties as Chairman.
Minimum shareholding requirement reduced to 300 per cent of base salary.
Operation of share plans Tullows existing shareholding policy prohibits Executive The Committee will operate the TIP and legacy plans Directors from selling more than 50 per cent of post-tax according to their respective rules and in accordance with vesting share awards until such time as their shareholding theListing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
exceeds 400 per cent of base salary rising to 600 per cent on the first vesting of the TIP.
It was previously Tullows The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains policy to include unvested and unexercised awards in this discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation calculation and that was the basis for setting such an and administration of the plans in relation to Senior extraordinarily high shareholding requirement.
Guidance Management, including Executive Directors.
These include has now clarified that unvested awards should not be but are not limited to the following albeit with the level of counted in minimum shareholding requirements and award restricted as set out in the policy table overleaf : accordingly the Committee has reduced the multiple of base who participates: salary for Executive Director shareholdings but specified that it will only include owned shares in the calculation of the timing of grant of awards and or payment: these amounts.
The Committee believes that, at 300 per the size of awards and or payment: cent of base salary, Tullows minimum shareholding requirement still significantly exceeds the average discretion relating to the measurement of performance minimum shareholding requirement across the FTSE.
inthe event of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any 2 Non-executive Directors specifiedcategories for incentive plan purposes and Non-executive Director fees are reviewed annually and for agoodleavers treatment: 2017 the Committee and the Board with each Director abstaining from any decision on their own remuneration adjustments to awards required in certain circumstances recommend that the current Chairmans fee be reduced from e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special 310,500 to 280,000 and each of the non-executive Director dividends : and fees be reduced from 69,500 to 60,000.
Additional the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for responsibility fees paid to Committee Chairs would remain exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their unchanged, save that the fee paid to the Chair of the Ethics originalpurpose.
&Compliance Committee would increase from 5,000 to 10,000 to reflect the increased demands placed on that The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the TIP, Committee.
The above reductions in fees payable to the which are set by the Committee at the start of the relevant current Chairman and the non-executive Directors reflect the financial year, reflects the Committees belief that any cost pressures in the oil and gas industry and Tullows current incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging position within the FTSE.
and tied to the delivery of stretching financial, operational and TSR-related objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of Tullows long-term strategy.
84 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 As a result of the switch from: i a three-year PSP vesting Following completion of the financial year, the Committee will period to a five-year TIP vesting period: and ii pre-vesting review the Companys performance against the corporate performance conditions to pre-grant performance conditions, scorecard resulting in a percentage score.
The multiple set by the following transitional arrangements applied in the early the Committee is then applied to the percentage score to years of the TIPs operation: determine the total TIP Award amount.
A TIP Award is divided equally between cash bonus and deferred shares up to the to cover the gap between 2016 when the 2013 PSP awards first 200 per cent of base salary.
Any portion of a TIP Award the final set of awards under this plan vest and 2019 above 200 per cent of base salary shall be satisfied in deferred when the deferred TIP shares granted in 2014 in relation to shares only.
Deferred shares forming part of a TIP Award are 2013 would otherwise normally vest, instead of vesting over normally deferred for five years and are normally subject to five years the deferred TIP shares granted in 2014 will vest malus and clawback.
In its discretion, the Committee may 50 per cent after three years i. e. 2017 and 50 per cent after elect to satisfy any portion of the cash bonus element of a TIP four years i. e. 2018 and the deferred TIP shares granted Award in deferred shares which will be deferred for a period in2015 will vest 50 per cent after four years i. e. 2019 and determined by the Committee, being not less than one year 50 per cent after five years i. e. 2020.
Deferred TIP shares from the date of grant.
Deferred shares issued in lieu of any granted in 2016 in relation to the performance period ended portion of the cash bonus component of a TIP Award shall be 31 December 2015 and subsequent deferred TIP share subject to malus, clawback and the minimum shareholding grants will vest after five years from grant: and requirements set out in the table overleaf.
to reduce the impact of overlapping performance periods, the TSR performance period for TIP awards made in 2014 Legacy remuneration was measured over the 2013 financial year, the performance For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors period for TIP awards granted in 2015 was measured over Remuneration Policy, authority was given to the Company to the 201314 financial years and the 2016 awards will be honour any commitments entered into with current or former measured over the 201415 financial years operating a Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous three-year TSR performance period for early TIP awards remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former would create an overlap with past PSP awards.
TSR, in Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on relation to the 2017 TIP award, will be based on a three-year Remuneration as they arise.
performance period ending with the financial year ending immediately prior to grant.
In addition to the TIP, Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the UK SIP on the same terms as other employees.
All employee share plans do not operate performance conditions.
Calculation of TIP Awards In addition to base salary and other benefits described in theRemuneration Policy, each Executive Director shall be eligible to receive an award issued under the rules of the TIP aTIP Award.
The TIP combines short and long-term incentive-based pay and includes a cash bonus component anda deferred share award component.
At the beginning of each financial year, the Committee will determine a multiple of base salary, subject to the limits established under this Policy, to apply to a TIP Award.
At the same time the Committee will also determine a balanced corporate scorecard of performance metrics applicable to any TIP Award.
The choice of the performance metrics and the weightings given to them, which are set by the Committee at the start of the relevant financial year, reflects the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to the delivery of stretching financial, operational and total shareholder return TSR related objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of Tullows long-term strategy.
com 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary Directors Remuneration Policy Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2017 this forms part of the Annual Report on to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable Remuneration and not part of the Policy Report To provide an appropriate Generally reviewed annually with increases Any increases to current Executive A broad assessment of individual and business performance is used as Current Executive Director base salaries: Base salary level of fixed cash normally effective from 1 January.
Base Director salaries, presented in the part of the salary review.
salaries will be set by the Committee taking Application of Policy in 2017 column to Aidan Heavey 886,074 into account: the right of this policy table, will not To attract and retain normally exceed the average increase Angus McCoss 501,106 individuals with the the scale, scope and responsibility awarded to other UK-based employees.
personal attributes, ofthe role: Paul McDade 501,106 Increases may be above this level in skills and experience the skills and experience of the Ian Springett 532,073 certain circumstances, for instance if required to deliver our individual: there is an increase in the scale, scope or strategy.
the base salary of other employees, responsibility of the role orto allow the On appointment as Chief Executive Officer after the AGM on including increases awarded to the base salary of newly appointed executives 26 April 2017, Paul McDades salary will increase to 725,000. wider population: and to move towards market norms as their Aidan Heaveys salary will continue to be paid for a period of experience and contribution increase.
the base salary of individuals 6months after the AGM on 26 April 2017. undertaking similar roles in companies No other changes for 2017.
Salaries other than for of comparable size and complexity.
Paul McDade frozen for fourth year running.
Thismay include international oil & gas sector companies or a broader group of FTSE-listed organisations.
To attract and retain Defined contribution pension scheme or Pension: 25% of base salary.
Pension and individuals with the salary supplement in lieu of pension.
The benefits Benefits: The range of benefits that may personal attributes, Company does not operate or have any be provided is set by the Committee skills and experience legacy defined benefit pension schemes.
after taking into account local market required to deliver our Medical insurance, income protection and practice in the country where the strategy.
Additional benefits may be executive is based.
No monetary provided as appropriate.
maximum is given for benefits provided to the Executive Directors as the cost Executive Directors may participate in the will depend on individual circumstances.
Tullow UK Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Benefit values vary year on year depending on premiums and the maximum potential value is the cost of the provision of thesebenefits.
Tullow UK SIP: Upto HM Revenue & Customs HMRC limits, currently 150per month.
Maximum participation levels and matching levels for all staff, including Executive Directors, are set by referenceto the rules of the plan andrelevant legislation.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Summary Directors Remuneration Policy Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2017 this forms part of the Annual Report on to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable Remuneration and not part of the Policy Report To provide an appropriate Generally reviewed annually with increases Any increases to current Executive A broad assessment of individual and business performance is used as Current Executive Director base salaries: Base salary level of fixed cash normally effective from 1 January.
com 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2017 this forms part of the Annual Report on to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable Remuneration and not part of the Policy Report To provide a simple, An annual TIP Award consisting of up The maximum amount of any Award shall A balanced scorecard of stretching financial and operational objectives, linked to the The corporate scorecard for 2017 will consist of: Tullow competitive, to400 per cent of base salary which is be established by the Committee at the achievement of Tullows long-term strategy will be used to assess TIP outcomes.
Incentive 50 per cent based on relative TSR, over the three-year performance-linked divided evenly between cash and deferred beginning of each year of this policy, Specific targets and their weighting will vary from year to year in accordance with period prior to grant, against a comparator group of oil Plan TIP incentive plan that: shares up to the first 200 per cent of base provided it shall not exceed 400 per cent strategic priorities but may include targets relating to: relative or absolute Total and gas exploration companies with a threshold 25 per salary.
Any amount above 200 per cent of salary for Executive Directors.
aligns the interests Shareholder Return TSR : earnings per share EPS : Environmental, Health and Safety cent of the award vesting at median performance and a ofbase salary is awarded entirely in ofmanagement Dividend equivalents will accrue on TIP EHS : financial: production: operations: project: exploration: or specific strategic and maximum 100 per cent vesting at upper quartile performance: 1 deferred shares.
andshareholders: deferred shares over the vesting period, personal objectives.
At the end of each year the Committee will determine a 10 per cent based on strategic financing measures: Deferred shares are normally subject for and will be payable in respect of shares performance score against each of the components of the corporate scorecard which promotes the 12 per cent based on production, operational and safety deferral until the fifth anniversary of grant, that vest.
will result in an aggregate performance score out of 100 per cent KPI Score.
At long-term success measures: and normally subject to continued service.
least 50 per cent of any TIP award will be based on financial measures including TSR.
ofthe Company: In the event that Tullow is a member 18 per cent based on business development, growth TIP Awards are non-pensionable and will ofthe FTSE 100 Index for a full financial Performance will typically be measured over one year for all measures apart provides a real andorganisational objectives.
be made in line with the Committees year during the term of this Remuneration from TSR and EPS, which, if adopted, will normally be measured over the three incentive to achieve The Committee has set specific targets for the above KPIs assessment of performance targets.
Policy, the Committee reserves the financial years prior to grant.
ourstrategic that are stretching and that are explicitly linked to the discretion to increase the maximum TIP objectives and deliver At the discretion of the Committee, any For relative TSR, no more than 25 per cent of the maximum TIP opportunity will achievement of Tullows long-term strategy.
Award opportunity from 400 per cent of superior shareholder portion of the cash component of a TIP be payable for threshold performance with 100 per cent payable on delivering base salary to 500 per cent of base salary The Committee is of the opinion that, given the commercial returns: and Award can be satisfied by granting deferred upper quartile performance.
should the Committee determine it sensitivity of Tullows non-TSR-related KPIs, disclosing in shares with a vesting date set by the will attract, retain Non-TSR targets will normally be based on a challenging sliding scale with appropriate to do so in the circumstances.
advance precise targets for the TIP would not be in shareholders Committee being not earlier than the first and motivate 20per cent of the maximum opportunity payable for threshold performance interests.
Except in circumstances where elements remain anniversary of grant.
individuals with the through to a maximum of 100 per cent payable for delivering stretch performance.
commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance required personal The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in the event of achieved and awards made will be published atthe end of attributes, skills and exceptional and unforeseen positive or negative developments during the the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess experience.
In addition, the Committee reserves the right to reduce the the basis for any pay-outs.
TIP payment where the Committee considers that the level of payment is not The final 10 per cent of the corporate scorecard will be commensurate with overall corporate performance and returns delivered to determined at the discretion of the Committee, based on shareholders over the performance period.
an overall assessment of Company performance during The Committee will review performance measures annually, in terms of the the year.
range of targets, the measures themselves and weightings applied to each element Details of actual performance against KPIs will be given of the TIP.
Any revisions to the measures and or weightings will only take place if retrospectively in the 2017 Annual Report.
it is necessary because of developments in the Groups strategy and, where these are material, following appropriate consultation with shareholders.
TIP awards are subject to malus and clawback.
The Committee retains discretion to apply malus and clawback to both the cash and deferred share elements of the TIP during the five-year vesting period in the event of a material adverse restatement of the financial accounts or reserves or a catastrophic failure of operational, EHS and risk management.
To align the interests Executive Directors are required to retain Not applicable.
Minimum ofmanagement and atleast 50 per cent of post-tax share awards shareholding shareholders and until aminimum shareholding equivalent to requirement promote a long-term 300 per cent of base salary is achieved in owned approach toperformance shares.
Unvested TIP shares will not count and riskmanagement.
towards the minimum shareholding requirement.
Shares included in this calculation are those held beneficially by the Executive Director and his or her spouse civil partner.
Non-executive To provide an appropriate The Chairman is paid an annual fee and the Non-executive Director remuneration is Not applicable.
Current non-executive Director fees: fee level to attract non-executive Directors are paid a base fee determined within the limits set by the Directors 2017 2016 individuals with the andadditional responsibility fees for the role Articles of Association.
2 Chairman 280,000 310,500 necessary experience ofSenior Independent Director or for chairing There is no maximum prescribed fee andability to make a aBoard Committee.
increase although fee increases for Non-executive base fee 60,000 69,500 significant contribution 3 Fees are normally reviewed annually.
non-executive Directors will not normally Senior Independent Director 10,000 15,000 tothe Groups activities exceed the average increase awarded to Each non-executive Director is also entitled 4 Senior Independent Director 40,000 15,000 while also reflecting the Executive Directors.
Increases may be above toareimbursement of necessary travel and time commitment and Audit Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 this level if there is an increase in the scale, other expenses.
scope or responsibility of the role.
Remuneration Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 Non-executive Directors do not participate in EHS Committee Chair 15,000 20,000 any share scheme or annual bonus scheme and are not eligible to join the Groups E&C Committee Chair 10,000 5,000 pensionschemes.
Under the rules of the TIP, deferred shares may be awarded in the form of conditional shares, forfeitable shares or nil-cost options at the discretion of the Committee.
To date, all TIP awards have been made in the form of nil-cost options.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2017 this forms part of the Annual Report on to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable Remuneration and not part of the Policy Report To provide a simple, An annual TIP Award consisting of up The maximum amount of any Award shall A balanced scorecard of stretching financial and operational objectives, linked to the The corporate scorecard for 2017 will consist of: Tullow competitive, to400 per cent of base salary which is be established by the Committee at the achievement of Tullows long-term strategy will be used to assess TIP outcomes.
Aidan Heaveys current remuneration will continue for 6 months after the AGM on 26 April 2017.
Thereafter, Aidan will receive a Chairmans fee of 280,000 per annum which is in line with the reduced Chairmans fee in effect as at 1 January 2017.
com 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors External appointments The charts below show how the composition of the Executive The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation to the Directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of number of external directorships that an Executive Director performance under the remuneration policy, as a percentage may hold, considering any potential appointments on a case-by-case basis.
During 2016, Ian Springett sought the oftotal remuneration opportunity and as a total value: Boards permission, which was agreed, to take up a nonexecutive Director role with G4S plc, effective 1 January 2017.
Fixed Inthis, andother requests from Executive Directors to take up Aidan external appointments, the Board considers the individuals Target Heavey aggregate time commitment anticipated by the new role Maximum against their current commitments to Tullow.
In respect of Ians appointment, the Board agreed that he would retain his fee of 61,750 per annum.
Angus McCoss has been nominated by Fixed Tullow as its representative on the board of Ikon Science Angus Target Limited, a company in which Tullow has a small equity stake.
McCoss Any fees payable for his services have been waived by Tullow.
Maximum Policy for new appointments Fixed Base salary levels will take into account market data for the relevant role, internal relativities, the individuals experience Paul Target McDade and their current base salary.
Where an individual is recruited Maximum at below market norms, they may be re-aligned over time e. g. two to three years, subject to performance in the role.
Benefits will generally be in accordance with the approved policy.
Fixed Individuals will participate in the TIP up to the normal annual Ian Target Springett limit subject to: i award levels in the year of appointment being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the financial year Maximum worked: and ii where a performance metric is measured over m 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 more than one year, the proportion of awards based on that metric will normally be reduced to reflect the proportion of the Fixed pay TIP cash TIP deferred shares performance period worked.
The Committee may consider buying out incentive awards which an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current employer although any 1.
Base salaries are those effective as at 1 January 2017 unchanged from 1January 2016. compensation would, be consistent with respect to currency 2.
Pensions are based on a 25 per cent employer contribution.
i. e. cash for cash, equity for equity, vesting periods i. e. there 3.
The target TIP award is taken to be 50 per cent of the maximum annual would be no acceleration of payments, expected values and the opportunity for 2017 200 per cent of salary for all Executive Directors.
The maximum value of the TIP is taken to be 400 per cent of salary For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable i. e. the maximum annual opportunity for 2017. pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 5.
No share price appreciation has been assumed.
allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant Service agreements to take account of the appointment.
In addition, any other Each Executive Director entered into a new service agreement ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment with Tullow Group Services Limited effective 1 January 2014, may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the save for Paul McDade who will enter into a new service Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain agreement prior to the 2017 AGM in respect of his new role relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
Each service agreement sets out Fee levels for non-executive Director appointments will take restrictions on the ability of the Director to participate in into account the expected time commitment of the role and the businesses competing with those of the Group or to entice or current fee structure in place at that time.
solicit away from the Group any senior employees in the six months after ceasing employment.
The above reflects the Committees policy that service contracts should be structured to reflect the interests of the Group and the individuals concerned, while also taking due account of market and bestpractice.
The term of each service contract is not fixed.
Each agreement is terminable by the Director on six months notice and by the employing company on 12 months notice.
90 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Policy for loss of office disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment Executive Directors service contracts are terminable by the being either acompany which ceases to be a Group member or Director on six months notice and by the relevant employing relating to a business or part of a business which is transferred company on 12 months notice.
There are no specific provisions to a person who is not a Group member or any other reason the under which Executive Directors are entitled to receive Committee so decides.
For a good leaver, unvested awards will compensation upon early termination, other than in accordance normally vest at cessation of employment unless the Committee with the notice period.
decides they should vest at the normal vesting date.
On termination of an Executive Directors service contract, the Any unvested awards held under the Tullow Oil 2005 PSP the Committee will take into account the departing Directors duty last awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2013 will lapse at cessation of employment unless the individual is a to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of any compensation.
Disbursements such as legal and outplacement good leaver defined as per the DSBP.
For a good leaver, costs and incidental expenses may be payable where appropriate.
unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee decides they should vest at cessation Any unvested awards held under the Tullow Oil 2005 DSBP the ofemployment subject to performance conditions and time last awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2013 will pro-rating unless the Committee decides that the application lapse at cessation of employment unless the individual is a of time pro-rating is inappropriate.
good leaver defined under the plan as death, injury or The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of Executive Directors leaving Tullow following the introduction of the TIP is described below: Cessation of employment due to death, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, the Cessation of employment due participants employing company or business for which they work being sold out of the toother reasons e. g. termination Companys Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee for cause Cessation during a financial year, or after the year but prior to the normal TIP No entitlement to the cash part of TIP Award date, may, at the discretion of the Committee, result in the cash part of the the TIP following the date notice cash TIP being paid following the date of cessation pro-rated for the proportion of the is served year worked.
Cessation during a financial year, or after the year but prior to the normal TIP Unvested TIP Shares lapse.
No TIP Award date, may, at the discretion of the Committee, result in an award of entitlement to the deferred share deferred shares deferred shares being made pro-rated for the proportion of the year worked.
element of the TIP following the date notice is served Unvested TIP Shares generally vest at the normal vesting date except on death or retirement see below unless the Committee determines they should vest atcessation.
On death, TIP Shares generally vest immediately unless the Committee determines that they should vest at the normal vesting date.
On retirement as evidenced to the satisfaction of the Committee, TIP Shares will vest at the earlier of the normal vesting date and three years from retirement unless the Committee determines they should vest at cessation.
Non-executive Director terms of appointment Number of complete Date of current Year years on engagement Expiry of Non-executive Director appointed the Board commenced current term Simon Thompson 2011 5 01.01.15 31.12.17 Tutu Agyare 2010 6 24.08.16 23.08.19 Mike Daly 2014 2 01.06.14 31.05.17 Anne Drinkwater 2012 4 10.02.15 09.02.18 Ann Grant 2008 8 15.05.14 30.04.17 Steve Lucas 2012 4 14.03.15 13.03.18 Jeremy Wilson 2013 3 21.10.16 20.10.19 In each case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Director and the Board.
The appointment of any non-executive Director may be terminated by either party on three months notice six months for Simon Thompson.
There are noarrangements under which any non-executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination ofhis or her appointment.
com 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Committees advisers ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings to provide This part of the report provides details of the operation of the advice so as to ensure that the Committees decisions are Remuneration Committee, how the Remuneration Policy was informed and take account of pay and conditions in the Group implemented in 2016 including payment and awards in respect as a whole.
Sources of advice include: of incentive arrangements and how shareholders voted at the 2016 AGM.
This part of the report also includes a summary of Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer: how the new Remuneration Policy, if approved by shareholders, Claire Hawkings, VP OS&E: and will be operated for 2017, although, for ease of reference, this is also presented within the Remuneration Policy Report.
Further to a formal tender process, including consideration of its independence and objectivity, PwC LLP was appointed Remuneration Committee membership and meetings as formal advisers to the Remuneration Committee from The Committee currently comprises five non-executive June 2016.
Directors and is chaired by Jeremy Wilson.
The membership The total fees paid to PwC in respect of the advice provided for and attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2016 totalled 60,000 excluding VAT and related to the review 2016 are shown below.
and design of the Companys 2017 Remuneration Policy and Committee member Meetings attended related issues.
PwC LLP is a member of the Remuneration Jeremy Wilson Chair 6 6 Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the Tutu Agyare 5 6 code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration Anne Drinkwater 6 6 consulting in the UK.
PwC LLP also provided tax and consulting services to Tullow during the year.
Steve Lucas 6 6 Simon Thompson 6 6 Fees paid to New Bridge Street, the previous advisers to the 1.
Tutu Agyare was unable to attend one Committee meeting, due to a Remuneration Committee, totalled 6,015 excluding VAT and prior engagement, but provided comments on the agenda and matters related to the provision of TSR calculations and advice with to be discussed to the Committee Chairman in advance of the meeting.
regards to the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee has access to the Company Secretary at all Committees main responsibilities times, who advises as necessary and, where appropriate, Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration makes arrangements for the Committee to receive independent policy for the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, legal advice at the request of the Committee Chair.
Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
The Committee also consults with the Companys major Reviewing progress made against performance targets and investors and investor representative groups as appropriate.
Director takes part in any decision directly affecting his or her Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval own remuneration.
The Company Chairman also absents by the Board and shareholders and determining the policy himself during discussion relating to his own fees.
on annual awards to Executive Directors and Senior Executives under existing plans.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the remainder of the remuneration packages principally comprising salary and pension for each Executive Director and Senior Executive.
Monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for Senior Management.
Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across theGroup.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys corporate website.
Base salaries of the Executive Directors have been rounded up to the nearest 10 for payment purposes, in line with established policy.
None of the Executive Directors has a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension by reference to qualifying services.
Taxable benefits comprise private medical insurance for all Executive Directors: Aidan Heaveys taxable benefits comprised private medical insurance 17,523 and car benefits club membership 47,550 : Ian Springett also receives club membership.
These figures represent that part of the TIP award required to be deferred into shares.
Part year Graham Martin resigned as an Executive Director effective 28 April 2016.
Material contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Termination payments audited The principles governing compensation for loss of office payments are set out on page 91.
As previously announced on 9 December 2015, Graham Martin informed the board that he would retire as an Executive Director at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Mr. Martin also resigned as Company Secretary effective 1 January 2016.
Mr. Martins appointment as an Executive Director and his employment with Tullow therefore ended on 28 April 2016. www.
com 93 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Termination payments audited continued Mr. Martin received his salary, benefits and pension allowance as usual in respect of his employment until 28 April 2016.
Mr. Martin worked for part of the 2016 financial year and the Committee therefore determined that he will remain eligible to receive the cash part of the Tullow Incentive Plan in respect of the portion of the year worked.
Under the rules of the various Tullow incentive arrangements, Mr. Martin left Tullow as a good leaver and as such his existing share awards were treated in the following way: An award of deferred shares under the Tullow Incentive Plan granted in 2014 over 58,246 shares will vest on 19 February 2017 as to 50 per cent of the shares subject to the award and 19 February 2018 as to the remaining 50 per cent.
An award of deferred shares under the Tullow Incentive Plan granted in 2015 over 86,398 shares will vest as to 50 per cent of the shares subject to the award on 18 February 2019 and on the third anniversary of the retirement date as to the remaining 50 per cent.
An award of deferred shares under the Tullow Incentive Plan granted in 2016 over 319,767 shares will all vest on the third anniversary of the retirement date.
Mr. Martins deferred share awards under the Tullow Incentive Plan will remain exercisable for a period of 12 months from the date of vesting, in accordance with the Tullow Incentive Plan rules.
Awards under the 2005 Performance Share Plan granted over 192,604 shares have already vested and will remain exercisable until 12 months from the date of retirement: Awards under the 2005 Deferred Share Bonus Plan granted over 123,279 shares have already vested and will remain exercisable until 12 months from the date of retirement: and Any partnership and matching shares from Tullows UK Share Incentive Plan that have been acquired by Mr. Martin and are held on his behalf on his retirement date will be transferred to him.
As at the date of his retirement, 10,650 shares were held on Mr. Martins behalf pursuant to the plan.
Mr. Martin will continue to be covered by the Companys directors and officers insurance and his indemnity in respect of third party liabilities will continue in force, each according to their terms.
On retiring and ceasing employment with Tullow, Mr. Martin was not entitled to any other payments or any payment for loss of office.
There have been no termination payments to Graham Martin or previously to any other Executive Directors.
Details of variable pay earned in the year Determination of 2017 TIP Award based on performance to 31 December 2016 audited The Groups progress against its corporate scorecard is tracked during the year to assess our performance against our strategy.
The corporate scorecard is made up of a collection of Key Performance Indicators KPIs which indicate the companys overall health and performance across a range of operational, financial and non-financial measures.
The corporate scorecard is central to Tullows approach to performance management and the 2016 indicators were agreed with the Board and focus on targets that were deemed important for the year.
Each KPI measured has a percentage weighting and financial indicators have trigger, base and stretch performance targets.
Following the end of the 2016 financial year, the corporate scorecard KPI performance was 38.8 per cent of the maximum and the Committee awarded Executive Directors a total TIP award equating to 194 per cent of base salary.
This will be payable 50 per cent in cash and 50 per cent in shares deferred for five years i. e. vesting in 2022.
Details of the performance targets which operated and performance against those targets are as follows: % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Strategic Financing The Capacity Funding target includes maintaining liquidity through the 15% 13.5% bi-annual redetermination of our Senior Reserves Based Lending RBL Two key targets relating 75% 67.5% debt capacity: extending the Rolling Corporate Facility by one year: and toCapacity Funding and amending the gearing covenant - 2016 funding capacity was achieved by Strategic Solution securing a years extension to our Corporate Facility, amending the toDeleverage.
financial covenant under the RBL and Corporate Facility and the issuance of $300m convertible bonds.
The second longer-term Strategic target focuses on deleveraging and rebasing our balance sheet Positive free cash flow in Q4 began the gradual deleveraging process, and the farm-down of our Uganda assets will fully fund our future capital commitments associated with this project once the deal is complete.
Based on a review of the two Strategic Financing targets, the Committee accordingly agreed a payout of 13.5% out of the potential 15% allocation.
94 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Safe & Efficient Production: trigger target of 77.3kboepd pays 0%: base target of81.4k 15% 8.8% BusinessOperations boepd pays 50%: and stretch of 85.3kbopd pays 100% 2016 75% 44.0% Production of 71.1kboepd, which includes 4,600 boepd of net lost Quantitative Targets production covered by insurance, was below the trigger target of 77.3k relating to Production, boepd and therefore 0% pay-out maximum 5% was achieved.
Opex: trigger target of $16.5 underlying cash opex boe pays 0%: base SSEA Targets.
target of $15.7opex boe pays 50%: and stretch target of $14.9 pays 100% 2016 Opex of $14.3 per barrel of oil including insurance pay-outs overachieved the stretch target of $14.9 and therefore the maximum 1.25% was awarded.
Net G&A: trigger target of $147 million pays 0%: base target of $127million pays 50%: and stretch target of $100 million pays 100% 2016 Net G&A was $116.4 million which was between the base target of $127 million and ourstretch target of $100 million achieving a 0.9% pay-out of the 1.25%allocation.
Capex: trigger target of $1,100 million pays 0% and the stretch target of $900 million pays 100% 2016 Capex of $857m overachieved the stretch target of $942 million and therefore the maximum 2.5% wasawarded.
Tullows SSEA targets are focused on reducing process safety events: making improvements to our asset integrity: occupational health and safety focused on Long Time Injury Frequency LTIF reduction and malaria prevention: and sustainability, including metrics such as environmental and social performance In 2016 there were no Tier 1 and Tier 2 incidents.
The Jubilee Asset Integrity improvement plan progress is on schedule.
The LTIF rate was 0, beating the stretch targetof 0.24.
There were no serious malaria cases reported and nosignificant work disruptions reported the year todate.
In view of the above SSEA performance, the Committee determined a4.1% achievement out of a maximum 5% allocation.
Business Development The KPI for the TEN Project was based on the following targets: timing 15% 12.4% andGrowth of achieving first oil: ramp-up of production: production attainment and 75% 62.0% operability First oil was achieved in August 2016: ramp-up Production Targets relating to the was 5.5mmbbls: and the capacity of the FPSO has been successfully TENProject, East Africa tested at an average rate of over 80,000 boepd.
The TEN Project has and Exploration.
been classified as a world class project and ranks inthe top 10% of global projects for both schedule delivery and capex budget per Independent Project Analysis IPA.
Based on these achievements, theCommittee determined a score of 4.5% out of the maximum 5%.
The East Africa KPI comprised the following targets: implementing a material transaction on our East Africa Portfolio: maintaining East Africa development for Final Investment Decision by the end 2017: and presenting Kenya Early Oil Investment Proposal.
The farm-down of our Uganda assets to Total was announced in early 2017.
Also in Uganda, eight production licences were awarded: the pipeline is progressing upstream and pipeline FEED are commencing in 2017: and upstream ESIA scoping studies are approved.
In Kenya, our licences have been extended: water injection testing has commenced: and the Kenya Early Oil Pilot Scheme has been approved by the upstream partners.
Based on these achievements, the Committee determined a score of 4.5% out of the maximum 5%.
The exploration KPI is made up of the following three targets: accessing material acreage positions: progressing quality prospects: and discovering predicted risked volumes through exploration.
In 2016, two material licences in Guyana and Zambia were signed and 13 quality prospects were progressed across Kenya, Namibia, Norway, Suriname and Mauritania.
In Norway, the Cara discovery and the Wisting appraisal well added a combined P50 resource of approximately 41mmboe net.
Based on these achievements, the Committee determined a score of 3.4% out of the maximum 5%.
com 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Determination of 2017 TIP Award based on performance to 31 December 2016 audited continued % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Organisation Highlights from the progress against the Organisation KPI included in 2016: 5% 4.1% IMS implementation is on track: the employee survey ran with high Targets relating to 25% 20.5% participation and action plans were developed to address feedback: all key Organisational Efficiency & risks have controls in place to manage them, and are monitored quarterly: Effectiveness, Diversity and all recommendations from an external audit on SAP effectiveness have Ethics & Compliance and been implemented: aspirational diversity targets have been agreed and fully implementing the senior leadership engaged: and an Ethics & Compliance e-learning module Integrated Management has been rolled out.
Based on these achievements, the Committee System IMS determined a score of 4.1% out of the maximum 5%.
Relative TSR Performance against a bespoke group of listed exploration 50% 0% andproduction companies measured over three years to 31December 250% 0% 2016 25% is payable at median, increasing to 100% payable at upper quintile.
Tullows share price performed well in 2016 closing 97% up since it opened on 4 January 2016 at 165.7p.
Whilst this annual performance puts Tullow in the upper quintile of the comparator group, because TSR is measured on a rolling three-year basis, Tullows performance was below median and therefore this KPI has no pay-out.
The TSR comparator group for the 2017 TIP award was as follows: Anadarko, Apache, BG Group, Cairn Energy, Canadian Natural Resources, CobaltEnergy, Conoco Phillips, Hess, Kosmos Energy, Lundin Petroleum, Marathon Oil, Noble Energy, Oil Search, Ophir Energy, Premier Oil, Santos, SOCO International, Talisman Energy and Woodside Petroleum.
Further information on Tullow Groups performance against the corporate scorecard is shown on pages 16 to 21 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
TIP Awards granted in 2016 audited The third set of TIP awards were granted to Executive Directors on 11 February 2016, based on the performance period ended 31December 2015, as follows: Number of TIP Face value of awards at Normal vesting dates Pre-grant 1 Executive shares awarded grant date end of exercise window performance period Aidan Heavey 565,423 835,130 Angus McCoss 319,767 472,296 11.02.2021 to 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2015 Paul McDade 319,767 472,296 11.02.26 TSR 01.01.2014 to 31.12.2016 Ian Springett 339,529 501,485 Graham Martin 319,767 472,296 1.
Awards made in the form of nil-cost options.
UK SIP shares awarded in 2016 audited The UK SIP is a tax-favoured all-employee plan that enables UK employees to save out of pre-tax salary.
Quarterly contributions are used by the Plan trustee to buy Tullow Oil plc shares partnership shares.
The Group funds an award of an equal number of shares matching shares.
The current maximum contribution is 150 per month.
Details of shares purchased and awarded to Executive Directors under the UK SIP are as follows: Partnership Matching SIP shares that Total unrestricted Shares held shares acquired shares awarded Total shares held became unrestricted shares held at 1 Director 01.01.16 in year in year 31.12.16 in the year 31.12.16 Angus McCoss 4,532 979 979 6,490 238 2,324 Paul McDade 9,502 980 980 11,462 238 7,294 Ian Springett 3,010 979 979 4,968 240 802 Graham Martin 9,502 574 574 10,650 1.
Unrestricted shares which are included in the total shares held at 31 December 2016 are those which no longer attract a tax liability if they are withdrawn from the Plan.
96 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2 CEO TOTAL PAY VERSUS TSR TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Total Pay, 000 250 5,000 250 200 4,000 200 150 3,000 150 100 2,000 100 50 1,000 50 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TSR CEO Total Pay Tullow FTSE 100 Comparison of overall performance and pay As a member of both indices in recent times, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to compare the TSR of the Companys ordinary shares against both the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices.
The values indicated in the graph overleaf show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends over an eight-year period from a100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Tullow Oil plc and in the two indices.
The total remuneration figures for the ChiefExecutive during each of the last eight financial years are shown in the table below.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that years performance 2009 to 2012, PSP awards based on three-year performance periods ending in the relevant year 2009 to 2015 and the value of TIP awards based on the performance period ending in the relevant year 2013to2016.
The annual bonus pay-out, PSP vesting level and TIP award, as a percentage of the maximum opportunity, are alsoshown for each of these years.
Year ending in 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 4,516,580 3,558,698 4,688,541 2,623,116 2,750,273 2,378,316 2,835,709 2,893,232 Annual bonus 86% 58% 80% 70% PSP vesting 100% 100% 100% 23% TIP 30% 23% 38% 39% Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives total remuneration excluding the value of any pension benefits receivable in the year between the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, compared to that of the average for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2015 to 2016 Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 0% 15.2% 3% Average employees 5.2% 19% Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends, tax and retained profits.
2015 2016 % change Staff costs m 218 168 -23 Dividends m Tax m 158 230 -46 Retained profits m 860 630 -27 Voluntary disclosure.
The dividend figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
As at leaving date on 28 April 2016.
All of the PSP awards listed are based on relative three-year TSR performance and the Committee considering that both the Groups underlying financial performance and its performance against other key factors e. g. Health & Safety over the relevant period are satisfactory.
50 per cent of awards are were measured against an international oil sector comparator group see past Remuneration Reports for details of specific companies and 50 per cent of awards are were measured against the FTSE 100.
All outstanding awards under PSP have been granted as, or converted into, nil exercise price options.
To the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable from three to 10 years from grant.
All outstanding awards under the DSBP were granted as, or have been converted into, nil exercise price options.
To the extent that they vest, they are exercisable from three to 10 years from grant.
com 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of past Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP awards continued The aggregate gain made by Directors on the exercise of nil exercise price options under the DSBP during the year was 292,702 gross 2015: 99,332.
On 11 February 2016, being the date that Angus McCoss exercised his options in the table overleaf, the middle market quoted price of a Tullow share was 1.48.
On 22 August 2016, being the date Aidan Heavey exercised his options in the table above, the middle market quoted price of a Tullow share was 2.29.
Share price range During 2016, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 332.4p and the lowest was 118.2p.
Calculated using share price of 312.7p at year end.
Under the Companys shareholding guidelines, each Executive Director is required to build uptheir shareholdings in the Companys shares to at least 300 per cent of their salary.
Further details of the minimum shareholding requirement issetout in the Remuneration Policy Report.
On 5 January 2017 Angus McCoss, Paul McDade and Ian Springett were each awarded 356 SIP shares, all of which are restricted.
Accounting for certain restricted SIP shares becoming unrestricted SIP shares in the period between 1 January 2017 and the date of this report, Angus McCoss holds 4,462 restricted SIP shares and 2,384 unrestricted SIP shares total 6,846, Paul McDade holds 4,466 restricted SIP shares and 7,352 unrestricted SIP shares total 11,818 and Ian Springett holds 4,464 restricted SIP shares and 860 unrestricted SIP shares total 5,324.
There have been no other changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2017 and the date of this report.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by:.
Jeremy Wilson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 100 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts O DRR TLW AR16 CG.
