Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Directors Remuneration Report Section 1: Annual statement from the Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2016 has been a good year for UBM and its shareholders as we continued to execute our Events First strategy and the incentive payments made to Executive Directors reflect this.
At the 2017 AGM, the Committee will be seeking approval for a new Directors Remuneration Policy.
The existing Policy has served shareholders well over the last three years.
The new Policy is therefore substantially the same updated to improve strategic alignment and to reflect latest best practice.
Contents: Section 1 Annual Statement Page 78 Section 2 Remuneration Policy Page 80 The Remuneration Policy which will, subject to shareholder approval, apply from the 2017 AGM Section 3 Annual Remuneration Report Page 86 How UBMs Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year ended 31 December 2016, and how we intend the Policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2017 Chairman, Remuneration Committee: Greg Lock Current Committee members: Dame Helen Alexander, Mary McDowell, David Wei Terms of Reference: www.
com investor corporate-governance Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and on Our strategy and the changes it has driven have behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors had an important bearing on the work of the Remuneration Report for the financial year 2016.
The Committee met four times in 2016 to consider the impact of Events First In May 2014 Tim Cobbold joined us as CEO and set about and to review the measurement of LTIP awards the task of developing a clear long-term strategy for made in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
During these last two years a number discussions also included the Remuneration Policy of steps have been taken to focus the Company on proposals we are making for the future.
First, at the end of 2014, we acquired Advanstar a portfolio of events in the USA for $972m, funded through a Rights Issue.
Secondly, during 2016, we disposed of PRN for $841m, returning 244m to shareholders.
The proceeds Greg Lock retained from the PRN disposal were reinvested in the Chairman, Remuneration Committee Events sector when we acquired Allworld an Asian events business for $485m in December 2016.
77 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 1: Annual statement from the Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2016 Performance: decisions and reward outcomes 79% for EPS, 100% for ROACE, and 71% for TSR.
After an The Company delivered reported continuing revenue growth assessment of performance and adjustments required for of 12.1% and the continuing adjusted operating margin material acquisitions and disposals, the Committee applied increased 1.6% pts to 27.2%.
Favourable foreign exchange downward discretion to the ROACE element so that rather movements have positively impacted Group results in the than 100% of this part of the award vesting, 80% will vest.
Continuing diluted adjusted EPS grew 31.0% to 39.7p Further details are set out on page 90.
Against this financial performance backdrop the Committee considered the Remuneration Policy Review following assessments: As a result of the approval for the existing three-year Remuneration Policy expiring in 2017, the Remuneration Annual Bonus: The 2016 annual bonus was Committee undertook a review of this Policy to ensure it was assessed on a constant currency basis against total appropriately aligned to the Groups strategy.
As part of the adjusted EPS, adjusted operating profit margin review, I wrote to UBMs Top 22 shareholders and met with before strategic operating expenditure, revenue a significant number of these to understand their views on of the Major events and personal objectives.
The main conclusion of the review was that the current Remuneration Policy had served UBM well In assessing the annual bonus for 2016, with respect to although a number of changes should be made to better the disposal of the sale of PRN, the Committee applied its align the Policy to our Events First strategy and to reflect judgement and included it within the performance assessment developments in best practice.
Our proposals to increase up to the point of disposal, thereafter it was excluded.
shareholding requirements for Executive Directors and add a two year post vesting holding period for equity awards The strong EPS and margin performance during the year was welcomed.
I was also encouraged to keep the three PSP resulted in maximum pay-outs for these elements of the measures currently in place and add a revenue measure, bonus.
Performance against our revenue of 1m business using constant currency for this.
events was slightly behind target.
The overall pay-out against the financial elements was 62% out of a maximum of 75%.
The Committee intends to submit the existing Policy For the CEO 90% of maximum personal objectives were met, for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM with the and for the CFO 95% of the maximum personal objectives following changes: were met.
This resulted in bonus payments of 84.4% of In addition to EPS, ROACE and relative TSR, Total Group maximum bonus for the CEO and 85.7% of maximum for Revenue will be introduced as a fourth measure to the PSP.
Our 2016 revenue performance being below target highlights the need to increase the focus here.
The Consistent with the Remuneration Policy, 75% of the bonus intention is that each measure is weighted equally.
The will be paid in cash and 25% will be deferred into UBM shares Committee determined that including revenue growth as a for three years under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Full details of fourth performance measure enables us to align incentives the targets set and performance against these targets are for the Executive Directors more closely with the execution shown on page 88. of the Events First strategy.
Revenue growth both organic and acquisitive is a key strategic objective for the Group.
Long-Term Incentive Plan: For the 2014 PSP award, the When assessing the level of vesting under the PSP, Committee considered and applied the following judgements the Committee will consider the underlying financial to provide a fair reflection of performance, having regard performance of the Company and the value generated to the significant strategic steps made since the award for shareholders and may adjust the level of vesting if it was made: considers that the outcome based on the assessment of PRNs results were excluded performance against targets does not reflect this.
In The Delta Data Services business sold in 2012 was particular, when assessing performance for the revenue removed from the base in the EPS calculation portion of the award the Committee will consider the quality of revenue growth delivered, adjusted for Strategic operating expenditure, being exceptional in acquisitions and disposals, including margin achieved and nature, was excluded the impact on profitability, ensure any revenue growth The ROACE definition was re-aligned to market practice rewarded via the PSP represents value improvement and the stretch target adjusted to reflect the sale of PRN for shareholders: Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors will be Further details of these adjustments is provided on page 89. increased from 150% to 200% of salary for the CEO and from 100% to 150% of salary for the CFO to be more in line Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2014 and with market practice as set out in the Policy on page 82: and vesting in 2017 were assessed on a reported basis, based on EPS, ROACE and TSR performance over the three years to A two year post vesting holding period will be introduced 31 December 2016.
Awards are only held by the CEO as the to PSP awards granted to Executive Directors from grant date was prior to the CFOs appointment.
Committees assessment of the performance conditions, 77% of the awards will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date in June 2017.
The respective vesting percentages were 78 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Subject to receiving majority shareholder consent at the 2017 AGM, the Policy will apply from the date of approval.
The Policy is intended to remain in place for three years.
Implementing the Remuneration Policy for 2017 Subject to shareholder approval, the Committee intends to operate the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors for 2017 as follows: Executive Director base salaries have been increased by 2.5% from 1 January 2017 in line with increases provided throughout the Group: No changes will be made to pension provision: Annual bonus provision will continue to be set at 150% of salary for the CEO and 120% of salary for the CFO and targets will measure EPS, EBITA margin, Revenue of 1m events and personal objectives.
Bonus deferral, at 25% of any bonus, will continue to operate: and PSP awards will be granted following the 2017 AGM at 170% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO.
The new two year post vesting holding period will apply.
Revenue targets are considered commercially sensitive but will be disclosed in full at the end of the performance period.
EPS targets for 2017 awards have been increased to 6% p. a. for threshold vesting and to 10% p. a. for maximum vesting.
ROACE targets will remain unchanged for existing capital while for new acquisitions we will apply the respective business case return agreed by the Board.
Looking forward At our AGM in 2016, our Annual Remuneration Report received the support of 96.23% of shareholders voting.
We do not take your continued support for granted.
That is why we have consulted with a significant number of shareholders before finalising our Policy proposals and our recommendations on Bonus and PSP awards.
I hope that you will support our recommendations.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
79 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 2: The Directors Remuneration Policy Report Our reward philosophy: Introduction To provide remuneration that attracts, motivates and retains executives with the appropriate skills and talent to Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this deliver UBMs strategy and create long-term shareholder Remuneration Report for the value year ended 31 December 2016 Our reward principles: comply with UK governance Alignment with UBMs strategy Our short and long-term incentives are aligned to key requirements including The financial metrics and strategic objectives in our Events First strategy.
This helps ensure that our Remuneration Large and Medium-sized Policy incentivises and rewards Executive Directors and Companies and Groups management to achieve UBMs strategy.
Accounts and Reports The annual bonus will typically be subject to profit and revenue targets, to encourage profitable growth.
The Amendment Regulations financial underpin that applies to the annual bonus plan, and the malus and clawback provisions under the bonus 2013, the rules of the UK and long term incentives, ensure that reward is only provided for robust and sustainable performance.
Listing Authority, and the provisions of the UK Long term incentives in the form of the Performance Share Plan awards will be subject to Total Group Revenue, Corporate Governance Code EPS, Return on Average Capital Employed, and relative TSR.
This provides a strong focus on our strategic plan and incentivises value enhancing revenue and earnings growth, maintaining strong returns, as well as Policy Scope incentivising the creation of continuous value for The Policy applies to the Chairman, Executive Directors and shareholders.
Alignment with shareholders Policy Duration A significant proportion of the Executive Directors The new Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a remuneration is performance-based.
The balance of the binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 17 May 2017 and, remuneration package at maximum performance is subject to receiving majority shareholder support, the Policy weighted towards the long term and delivered in UBM will apply from the date of approval and is intended to remain shares to ensure that the interests of management are in place for three years.
aligned with those of shareholders.
Changes from 2014 Remuneration Policy Alignment with the wider Group The main changes from the 2014 Remuneration Policy are The reward principles that govern Executive Directors summarised below.
remuneration are aligned with the broader reward In addition to EPS, ROACE and relative TSR, a Total Group philosophy and principles of the Group.
When determining Revenue performance measure will be introduced into the remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee PSP.
Consistent with prevailing market practice the Policy gives consideration to pay and conditions in the wider provides flexibility to alter the measures, weighting and employee population.
targets for future PSP awards to ensure they continue to be consistent with our strategy.
Where material changes are proposed the Committee would aim to consult with shareholders in advance: Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors will be increased.
The CEOs guideline will be increased from 150% to 200% of salary while the CFOs guideline will be increased from 100% to 150% of salary: and A two year post vesting holding period will be introduced to PSP awards granted to Executive Directors from 2017 onwards.
To aid the administration and clarity of its operation other minor changes have also been made to the Remuneration Policy.
80 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Remuneration Policy table Executive Directors The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Details of how the Committee intends to operate this Policy in 2017 can be found on page 95.
Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Supports the recruitment To align with changes for other While the Committee has not set a None, although performance and retention of Executive employees the normal effective date maximum level of salary, increases of the individual is taken into Directors of the calibre for any increase will be moved to will be determined taking into account by the Committee required to deliver UBMs March from 2019.
For 2017 and 2018, account salary increases amongst when setting and reviewing strategy increases will be effective 1 January the wider workforce base salary levels 2017, and 1 February 2018 respectively However, the Committee retains the When considering salaries, the discretion to make increases above Committee takes a range of factors this level in certain circumstances, into consideration, including: for example, but not limited to: The skills, experience, responsibilities An increase in the individuals and performance of the individual scope and responsibilities Pay at companies of a similar size and Alignment to the external market complexity to UBM An increase to reflect an Corporate performance individuals performance and development in the role, e. g. Pay increases for our internal where a new appointment is employee comparator group recruited at a lower salary level and is awarded stepped increases Retirement Provides a marketDefined contribution plan or Annual contributions by the No performance measures benefits competitive retirement cash allowance in lieu of pension Company will not exceed 20% of benefits package, in line with contribution base salary local market practice All of UBMs defined benefit schemes Level of contribution allowance are closed to new employees dependent on local market and seniority of the individual Benefits Provides a competitive Executive Directors receive private There is no maximum.
Benefits are No performance measures benefits package in line with healthcare insurance for the executive set at a level which the Committee local market practice and their family, income protection considers is appropriate in the cover and life assurance benefits of context of the circumstances of four times base salary the role individual and local market practice Executive Directors are entitled to participate in all-employee plans operated by the Company, such as Sharesave a SAYE scheme and Sharebuild the UBM Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance 81 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 2: The Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Rewards the achievement of Measures and targets are set annually Maximum opportunity: Typically, performance over Bonus key annual Group financial in the context of UBMs strategy the relevant financial year CEO: 150% of base salary targets and the delivery of is assessed against the The Committee determines bonus payquantifiable personal and following measures: CFO: 120% of base salary outs after the financial year-end, based strategic business objectives on performance against annual targets Financial measures The bonus starts paying out from Compulsory deferral of part 0% of base salary for threshold The annual bonus is normally delivered A profit-based measure of the bonus into shares performance.
Pay-outs are 75% in cash after the audited results under the Deferred Bonus normally on a straight-line basis A revenue-based measure for that year are approved, and 25% in Plan DBP, providing a link between threshold and maximum deferred shares after three years to creating sustainable longNon-financial measures term value and acting as a Payment of any bonus is at the Personal objectives which retention tool discretion of the Committee and may include strategic KPIs, subject to the financial underpin The financial underpin that to be agreed on an annual whereby no bonus will be paid unless at applies to the annual bonus basis least 50% of budget operating profit plan and the malus and is achieved The Committee may alter the clawback provisions under measures, weightings and the deferred bonus see Unvested DBP awards are subject to targets including introducing Operation opposite, seeks a malus provision which could reduce different measures annually to ensure that poor corporate or cancel the award prior to vesting.
if it determines that it is performance is recognised Clawback also applies to the cash appropriate to do so and not rewarded payment and the deferred shares for five years from payment cash award The balance of the measures deferred shares for any year will be weighted towards financial, with a Examples of where malus minimum weighting of 75% clawback would apply are a material misstatement of results, material Details of the measures failure of risk management, or serious that will apply for the 2017 reputational damage financial year are set out in the Directors Remuneration Awards that vest under the Deferred Report on page 95 Bonus Plan will accrue dividend equivalents up to the point of vesting Performance Incentivises and rewards the Awards are made annually with vesting The maximum opportunity range Awards will be assessed Share Plan delivery of UBMs strategy dependent upon the achievement of for PSP awards will usually be against up to four PSP performance conditions over three capped at 200% of salary.
Award performance metrics Delivered in shares to align years levels will be determined annually including: executives with shareholders and helps executives to build Unvested awards will be subject to The plan rules allow for awards to Total Group Revenue a significant shareholding in a malus provision prior to vesting.
be made up to 250% of salary in EPS UBM Clawback also applies for five years exceptional circumstances such as from award recruitment of a new Director ROACE Assists in the retention of executives Examples of where malus Awards vest as follows: Relative TSR performance clawback would apply are a material against a comparator group Threshold performance: up to misstatement of results, material or index 25% of award failure of risk management, or serious reputational damage Straight-line vesting normally Maximum performance: 100% of applies between these levels the award Awards that vest will accrue dividend of performance equivalents up to the point of vesting The 2017 awards will measure For awards granted in 2017 onwards, the Total Group Revenue, a two year holding period will apply EPS, ROACE and relative TSR following the end of the performance with each measure weighted period equally For future awards the Committee may alter the measures, weighting and targets including introducing different measures annually if it determines that it is appropriate to do so Details of the targets that will apply for awards granted during 2017 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 95 Shareholding Aligns executives with Executives are generally expected to CEO: 200% of salary N A guidelines shareholders achieve the guideline five years after CFO: 150% of salary appointment Executives are encouraged to grow their shareholding by holding shares which have been delivered through the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Performance Share Plan 82 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Remuneration Policy table Non-Executive Directors Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Chairman and NonProvide an appropriate Fees are reviewed annually There is no defined maximum opportunity.
Fees Executive Director reward to attract and are set at a level which: The fee structure is as follows: fees retain high calibre Reflects the commitment and contribution individuals The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee that is expected from the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship of Board Is appropriately positioned against comparable Committees and for the Senior Independent Director roles in companies of a similar size and complexity Fees may be paid in cash and or UBM shares.
NonExecutive Directors do not participate in any incentive Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors scheme.
Additional fees may be paid to reflect Remuneration Report for the relevant financial increased responsibilities on an interim or permanent year basis The Company reimburses the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors for reasonable expenses in performing their duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The Board may introduce UBM to confirm additional benefits for the Chairman Non-Executive placement of table Directors if it is considered appropriate to do so Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Performance payments and or payments for loss of office including Share Plan may be granted as conditional share awards or nil exercising any discretions available to it in connection with cost options or in such other form the Committee determines such payments notwithstanding that they do not accord with has the same economic effect.
Awards may be settled in cash the Policy set out above if the terms of the payment were at the Committees discretion.
Awards may be adjusted in the agreed i before 20 May 2014 the date when the Companys event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy demerger, delisting, special dividends or other event that may came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came affect the Companys share price.
into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors The Committee retains the ability to adjust bonus and or PSP remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: targets and or set different measures if one or more events or iii they relate to a time when the relevant individual was occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group not a Director of the Company, and, in the opinion of the business which cause the Committee to consider that an Committee, the payment was not consideration for the amended or substituted performance condition would be individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Any amended or substituted target would not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above For these purposes payments includes the Committee discretions would be explained in the Directors Remuneration satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation Report and may be the subject of consultation with the to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are Companys major shareholders.
determined at the time the award is granted.
Illustration of Executive Remuneration Policy The charts below present below target, on-target and maximum remuneration levels for the CEO and CFO for 2017: CEO Tim Cobbold CFO Marina Wyatt Maximum Maximum 28% 34% 38% 3.0m 31% 31% 38% 1.8m performance performance On-target On-target 56% 27% 17% 1.0m 51% 31% 18% 1.6m performance performance Fixed pay Fixed pay 100% 0.6m 100% 0.8m 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m Fixed Annual bonus Long-term Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP 83 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 2: The Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued The three scenarios are based on the following assumptions: individual circumstances subject to the maximum level of variable pay outlined below.
Fixed pay below Base salary with effect from 1 January The Committee has the discretion to change the performance target performance 2017, benefits and pension Fixed pay measures and or targets used under the annual bonus and or No bonus pay-out long-term incentive plan if it determines that the No vesting under the PSP circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
On-target Fixed pay The rationale for any changes from the Policy in operation will performance 50% of maximum bonus opportunity be clearly explained in the Remuneration Report in respect of 75% of salary for the CEO, 60% of salary for the CFO that year.
25% of PSP shares vest at threshold The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded performance 42.5% of salary for the CEO, 37.5% of salary for the CFO to new Executive Directors in the year of recruitment would normally be in line with the maximum level of variable pay Maximum Fixed pay that may be awarded under the Annual Bonus Plan and the performance 100% of bonus pays out 150% of salary Performance Share Plan as described in the Policy, and, in any for the CEO, 120% of salary for the CFO circumstances, the maximum level of annual variable pay that 100% of PSP shares vest 170% of base may be awarded excluding buyout awards will not exceed salary for the CEO, 150% of salary for the CFO 400% of base salary, in line with the maxima set out in the Policy table for the Annual Bonus and Performance Share Plan combined.
Note: In accordance with the disclosure requirements, share price appreciation and dividends have been excluded from the scenarios Buyouts The remuneration package offered to new Executive Shareholder views and consideration of employment Directors may include a buyout of remuneration forfeited by conditions elsewhere in the Group the Executive Director on leaving their former employment The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors reflects the if the Committee considers that this is necessary.
reward philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the Group.
The Remuneration Policy for employees across When determining any buyout the Committee will take UBMs global workplace will differ from the Policy for account of relevant factors including performance conditions executives to reflect different levels of seniority and local attached to awards, the form in which they were granted for market practice.
example cash or equity awards and the vesting time-frame Communication with shareholders The Committee of awards.
Buyout awards will generally be structured on a maintains an open dialogue with UBM shareholders and comparable like for like basis to the awards forfeited.
seeks their views when any significant changes are being The Committee may rely on exemption 9.4.
2 of the Listing made to remuneration arrangements.
Rules which allows for the grant of awards to enable, in Consideration of pay and conditions for the wider Group exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
While the Committee does not consult with employees Awards made using this exception would apply to buyouts regarding Executive Directors remuneration the only and would be structured to follow similar principles as Committee does consider pay and employment conditions awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The Committee elsewhere in the Group when determining executive pay, to would take a holistic view of remuneration in making any such ensure that pay structures are appropriately aligned.
The decision to ensure it is not paying more than is necessary.
Committee also considers base pay movements of the wider employee population when determining base salaries for Executive Director service contracts Executive Directors.
The current Executive Directors have service contracts which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive Recruitment remuneration arrangements or by either the Company or executive giving 12 months notice.
The Committee will take into consideration any relevant factors when determining the remuneration arrangements Service contracts for new Executive Directors will generally for a new Executive Director.
Factors may include the calibre be limited to 12 months notice.
However, the Committee may and experience of the individual: local market practice in agree a longer period, of up to 24 months initially, reducing by the individuals current location: the individuals existing one month for every month served until it falls to 12 months.
remuneration arrangements: the remuneration arrangements Terms and conditions for Non-Executive Directors for other executives: and business circumstances.
We seek to Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The the Company and its shareholders, and seek not to pay more appointment of Non-Executive Directors is for a fixed term than is necessary.
of three years, during which period the appointment may be When recruiting an Executive Director, the Committee will terminated by the Company or the Non-Executive Director normally seek to align the remuneration package offered with giving 3 months notice six months notice for the Chairman.
However, the Committee retains the There are no provisions on payment for early termination in discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions their letters of appointment.
outside the structure of the standard Policy to meet 84 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Each Non-Executive Directors appointment including that of Other payments the Chairman is reviewed every three years.
In accordance The Committee reserves the right to make any other with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office required to stand annually for re-election.
or employment where the payments are made in good faith in the discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors and damages for breach of such an obligation, or by way of service contracts of Executive Directors are available for settlement of any claim arising in connection with the inspection at UBMs registered office during normal business cessation of a Directors office or employment.
Any such hours and will be available at the AGM.
payments may include paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional Loss of office payments advice fees in connection with their cessation of office or Salary fees and benefits employment.
Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary.
The Corporate events Committee may, in its discretion, make payments in addition Change of control to salary, in respect of any contractual benefits including Deferred Bonus Plan Awards under the 2014 Deferred retirement benefits, apportioned for the length of the notice Bonus Plan will normally vest in full upon a change of period, subject to mitigation if alternative employment is control.
Performance Share Plan The rules of the Performance Share Plan provide that awards would normally vest at the Annual bonus time of the event taking into account the extent to which Executive Directors may be eligible to receive a bonus any applicable performance conditions are satisfied and, payment in respect of the financial year in which they leave: unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of however, there is no contractual entitlement to a bonus.
In time that has elapsed since grant.
determining eligibility for a bonus, consideration will generally All Employee Share Plans Awards held under all-employee be given to the circumstances of their leaving including plans would normally be expected to vest on a change of future employment and performance during that year.
Where control and those which have to meet specific requirements a bonus payment is made, it will generally be on a pro-rata to benefit from permitted tax benefits would vest in basis for the period served during the year based on an accordance with those requirements.
The Committee may permit participants to exchange Long-term incentives Performance Share Plan or Deferred Bonus Plan awards for The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans awards in shares of the acquiring Company.
is determined by the relevant plan rules.
The Committee will determine when awards vest and the period during which Other corporate events awards may be exercised.
If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the Deferred Bonus Plan Awards made under the Deferred Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or any other Bonus Plan will generally lapse if the Executive Director event which, in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the leaves employment before the end of the vesting period, current or future value of the awards the Committee may unless they are considered to be an approved leaver.
In determine whether, and to what extent, awards will vest.
such circumstances awards will normally vest on the normal date unless the Committee determines that awards should vest on the date the Director leaves.
Performance Share Plan Awards made under the Performance Share Plan will generally lapse if the Executive Director leaves employment before the end of the vesting period, unless they are considered to be an approved leaver.
To the extent that awards do not lapse, awards would normally vest on the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines that awards vest on cessation.
Awards vest taking into account the extent to which any applicable performance conditions are satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
Approved Leaver is limited to individuals leaving by reason of death, injury, disability, ill health, the participants employing Company ceasing to be part of the Group or in such other circumstance as the Committee determines except where a participant is summarily dismissed.
85 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 3: Directors Annual Remuneration Report Committee roles and advisers The following Directors were members of the Committee during 2016: Greg Lock Chairman Dame Helen Alexander Pradeep Kar retired 22 September 2016 Mary McDowell David Wei appointed 1 November 2016 The Committee was advised by the Group Company Secretary, who is secretary to the Committee, the Group Head of Reward and the Group HR Director.
No individual is to participate in matters directly concerning their own remuneration.
The Committees terms of reference provide further details of its role and responsibilities and are available on the Companys website www.
Greg Lock is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Activities of the Committee The Committee met four times during the year, and its main activities were as follows: Reviewed 2015 Executive Directors performance and determined the annual bonus outcomes payable in March 2016: Monitored 2016 objectives and finalised 2017 objectives for the Executive Directors annual bonuses: Approved the vesting of the 2014 Performance Share Plan which occurs in June 2017: Approved 2016 awards under the Performance Share Plan: Considered the assessment of performance of unvested incentives given the adoption of Events First, and in particular the disposal of PRN: and Developed the 2017 Remuneration Policy and consulted with major shareholders.
During the year, Deloitte advised the Committee on the Directors Remuneration Policy, external developments around market practice, corporate governance, and institutional investor views.
Deloitte also provided TSR performance monitoring for outstanding Performance Share Plan awards.
Deloitte was appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, separate teams within Deloitte have provided consulting services in relation to the Events First strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and independent, and that the Deloitte engagement partner and team which provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with UBM that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year amount to 67,950.
Fees are charged on a time and expense basis.
86 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Single figure for total remuneration audited The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 31 December 2015 and 2016.
His single figure for total remuneration for 2015 was 872,131.
Tim Cobbolds benefits include private health insurance, life cover of four times base salary, and income protection cover.
Marina Wyatts benefits include private health insurance, life cover of four times base salary, and income protection cover.
Pension The Executive Directors received their pension contributions as a cash allowance of 20% of base salary.
87 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 3: Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Bonus performance measures for 2016 paid in 2017 The table below sets out performance against the 2016 bonus.
Metric Actual weighting achieved Performance targets Actual as % of as % of Threshold Maximum Performance maximum maximum Financial objectives Total adjusted earnings per share 40.1 44.3 45.9 25% 25.0% Adjusted Operating profit margin % 25.1 27.7 28.0 25% 25.0% Revenue of 1m events 582.0 643.3 611.4 25% 11.9% Financial objectives - Total 75% 61.9% Metric Actual achieved weighting as % of metric as % of maximum CEO CFO Financial objectives - Total 75% 61.9% 61.9% Personal objectives - Total 25% 22.5% 23.8% Total as a % of maximum bonus 84.4% 85.7% Total as % of salary 127% 103% Total value 839,427 462,547 As referred to in the Chairmans review, 2016 was a successful year in implementing the Groups Events First strategy both in terms of strategic progress and in delivering a strong financial performance.
Reported continuing revenue growth was 12.1%, the continuing adjusted operating margin increased by 1.6%pts to 27.2% and the continuing adjusted diluted earnings per share grew by 31% to 39.7p 2015: 30.3p.
Favourable foreign exchange movements principally in the US$ had a significant positive impact on reported performance, which was nevertheless strong at constant currency.
In this context the Committee reviewed the 2016 annual bonuses for Executive Directors mindful that the assessment is made on a constant currency basis, so the favourable foreign exchange movements do not contribute to the level of bonus payment considered and that the targets against which the performance was assessed reflected that 2016 was a biennial down year.
The Annual Bonus Plan is structured such that 75% of the maximum award is based on performance against financial objectives and 25% with reference to personal objectives.
The three financial measures, Earnings per Share, Operating Profit Margin and Revenue of 1m Events have been selected because they align closely with the Events First strategy.
EPS reflects the profit performance of the business and provides the cover for dividend payments to shareholders.
A key objective of the Events First strategy is to grow the EPS through the biennial cycle.
The operating profit margin before strategic operating expenditure reflects the operating efficiency of the ongoing business and a key objective of the strategy is to deliver an attractive, improving margin.
Under the Events First strategy we focus on larger events relative to their markets because these events grow more quickly and generate higher margins.
To reflect this key element of the strategy we target the performance of events with revenues over 1m which in aggregate deliver more than 85% of events revenues and a greater proportion of events profits.
Based on the financial results the bonus outcome for the year was assessed to be 62% points of the maximum of 75% points for the financial element of the Annual Bonus Plan.
For the purpose of assessing performance PRNs contribution was included in both the performance and the bonus targets up to the point of disposal and excluded thereafter.
The relatively high payout reflects the strength of the performance at constant currency which was ahead of both the Boards and the markets expectations.
The personal objectives for the CEO and the CFO were set to align to the Events First strategy implementation and in a complementary way.
These included: successful completion of the PRN disposal and the payment of a special dividend to shareholders CEO & CFO : continued successful integration of Advanstar with generation of synergies of at least $15m and performance ahead of business case CEO & CFO : development of the Revenue Growth strategy CEO only : strengthening of the US and Asia Finance organisations CFO only : completion and optimisation of standard CORE finance systems and processes CFO only, overhauled & revision of the approach to succession planning CEO only : implementation of the Events First strategy at an operational level, including execution of the procurement programme with savings of 6m secured, successful roll out of SX and CRM in EMEA CEO & CFO.
The Committee awarded the CEO 90% and the CFO 95%, of the 25% points maximum for performance against these personal objectives because performance against these objectives was demonstrably strong, with quantitative measure generating a tangible, positive impact on the financial performance in 2016 and positioning the business for further growth and margin improvement in 2017 and beyond.
88 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements For the avoidance of doubt and as indicated above, adjustments to bonus targets have been made on the basis of continuing Group operations, consistent with how the Company reports in the income statement on page 113 and at constant currency to recognise underlying performance.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining bonus pay-outs.
This resulted in total bonus payments of 84.4% of maximum bonus for the CEO resulting in a bonus of 839,427 and 85.7% of maximum bonus for the CFO resulting in a bonus of 462,547.
25% of these bonus awards will be deferred into shares for three years under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This amounts to 209,857 for the CEO and 115,637 for the CFO.
LTIPs due to vest in 2017 in respect of the performance period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 Due to the number of changes in the business, the Committee made a number of judgements in respect of the Performance Share Plan PSP.
The Committee consulted with our largest shareholders in advance in relation to these areas of judgment to ensure the rationale was clear and to obtain their feedback.
The CEO is the only Executive Director who holds shares which vest in 2017.
PRN disposal For unvested PSP awards, the Committee decided to adjust the ROACE and EPS targets by removing PRNs contribution in respect of targets set and the assessment of performance from the start of the performance period for all outstanding awards.
Having successfully disposed of the business and returned a special dividend to shareholders to do otherwise would have required the Committee to make so many assumptions as to make the resulting measures very difficult to substantiate.
PRN ROACE stretch target The ROACE measure includes a stretch target of a 1% increase in the ROACE on the existing capital before adjusting for acquisitions.
The 1% stretch was set in respect of the total Group including PRN.
Given that PRNs ROACE was approximately six times higher than the continuing business the Committee decided to reduce the target increase in ROACE on the existing capital to 0.8%, to reflect the sale of PRN.
Consistent with our Policy, the Committee is comfortable that the revised target is at least as difficult to achieve for the continuing business.
Delta Data Services business disposal The EPS element of the 2014 PSP award compares the average of the EPS in 2012 and 2013 with the average of the EPS in 2015 and 2016.
The Delta disposal was completed on 1 January 2013 and therefore Deltas earnings were included in the EPS for 2012.
The Committee decided that Deltas earnings should be excluded from the calculation of the EPS in 2012 and 2013, when compared with the EPS outturn for 2015 and 2016, as Delta was not owned for any of the performance period.
This ensures a like-for-like comparison across the performance period.
Strategic operating expenditure Additional re-organisational expenditure of 20m-25m over 2015, 2016, and 2017 was approved by the UBM Board.
A reorganisation of this nature and scale was not envisaged when the stretching PSP targets were set.
The Committee decided that, in determining the performance of the business for the EPS and ROACE elements of the PSP, it should be assessed based on earnings returns before this reorganisational expenditure.
To ensure consistency similar adjustments will be made where expenditure is incurred in either the base or the final performance measurement periods.
The change in strategy, and the actions taken as a consequence, have been very significant and beneficial for shareholders.
Bearing in mind the changes in the business the Committee has exercised judgement to ensure achievement of the objectives remained at least as challenging.
ROACE definition Following the introduction of ROACE to the PSP in 2014, no payments have yet been made under the current definition.
The definition of ROACE as originally specified contained some inconsistencies which have been corrected.
In addition, the ROACE definition which was used in reporting our 30 June 2016 interim results and will be used going forwards has been updated, based on investor feedback, to reflect market practice.
More detail is available on page 188 in the glossary.
The Committee decided that for the purpose of incentives this new definition should apply for both calculation of the targets and the outturn in order to ensure consistency with wider reporting.
89 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 3: Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued The PSP awards for the performance period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016 were based one third on relative TSR performance, one third on EPS and one third on ROACE.
As outlined in the Chairmans letter performance targets have been adjusted given the strategic changes in the Group and in particular to take into account the disposal of PRN.
The following summarises the revised performance targets and actual performance.
Threshold 25% vesting Maximum 100% vesting Actual performance Vesting TSR relative to the FTSE 250 Median Outperformance Outperformance 71% by 10% p. a. of 6.18% p. a. EPS growth 5% p. a. growth 9% p. a. growth 40.3p 7.9% p. a. growth 79% ROACE1 14.1% 14.5% 14.7% 100% RemCo applied discretion to reduce to 80%2 Total 77% 1 This represents the combined target for existing capital and new capital 2 The Committee applied downward discretion to reduce the level of vesting under the ROACE portion to 80% as it did not consider that 100% vesting reflected the underlying performance during the period This resulted in a 77% vesting outcome for 2014 PSP and the below number of shares vesting.
The value of the shares vesting is based on the 3 month average share price to 31 December 2016 of 7.11.
Recruitment Standard Standard PSP shares PSP shares Recruitment PSP Estimated1 granted in granted in PSP shares shares Dividend Shares Aggregate value 2014 2014 vesting vesting accruing vesting of LTIPs vesting Tim Cobbold 62,718 217,597 48,213 167,274 23,634 1,699,923 Marina Wyatt 1 Accrued dividends and estimated dividends to June 2017 LTIPs granted during 2016 audited The table below sets out details of the LTIP awards made under the PSP during 2016.
Number % of shares of shares Face value vesting for awarded % of base Face value threshold Performance Executive Director during 2016 Type of award Performance conditions salary performance measurement period Tim Cobbold 191,683 Nil-cost option 1 3 EPS growth 170% 1,127,096 25% 2016 LTIP award 1 3 ROACE 1 January 2016 to 1 3 Relative 31 December 2018 Marina Wyatt 114,795 Nil-cost option 150% 674,995 25% TSR growth 2016 LTIP award See overleaf for full detail on performance targets Face value was calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant 588.0p for awards to Tim Cobbold and Marina Wyatt made on 3 March 2016 90 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements The table below sets out the performance measures and targets that apply to the PSP awards granted in 2016: Earnings Per Share Performance metrics EPS growth in excess of 9% p. a.
25% vesting: EPS growth between 5% and 9% p. a. vesting calculated on a straight-line basis, EPS growth below 5% p. a.
0% vesting Methodology UBMs Events business has a number of biennial shows, with odd-year biennials significantly larger and more profitable than even-year biennials.
The profit contribution from the odd-year biennials leads to an annual distortion in the reported growth rate and profitability of the Events business and an increase in EPS in odd years To give a fairer reflection of underlying performance, a two-year average of Group adjusted undiluted EPS of odd and even years will be applied, with the two-year average prior to the performance period used as the base year, and the two-year average at the end of the performance period used to determine growth For PSP awards made in 2016 with a three-year performance period of 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 the two-year average for the base year is based on EPS for 2014 adjusted for the rights issue, i. e. 40.65p and 2015, and the two-year average at the end will be based on EPS for 2017 and 2018 Return On Average Capital Employed Performance metrics The target is the weighted average of the following: 1.
Existing capital: Returns on existing capital i. e. ROACE at the start of the performance period must maintain or exceed current levels by the end of the three-year period.
Target is to maintain ROACE at 13.1% with a stretch to 13.9%, with straight-line vesting in between.
As outlined on page 89 the targets have been updated to reflect the new definition of ROACE and to reduce the stretch of the 1% to 0.8% to reflect the sale of PRN 2.
New investments: Acquisitions should achieve a minimum average return of 10% p. a. during the three-year performance period.
For the sake of simplicity, any capital invested during the three-year performance period will be regarded as new investment Relative Total Shareholder Return Performance metrics UBMs TSR to outperform, over a three-year period, the TSR of the FTSE 250 general industry index excluding Investment Trusts Outperform median of the FTSE 250 by 10% p. a.
100% vesting: Median 25% vesting: In between these positions vesting calculated on a straight-line basis: Below median zero vesting Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made in 2016.
Robert Gray was awarded 141,328 shares under the PSP in June 2014.
He stepped down as a Director on 31 July 2015 and subsequently left the UBM group on 16 June 2016 on the sale of PRN.
The estimated value of the 2014 PSP award which vests is 563,188.
This reflects the 77% vesting outcome for the 201416 performance period, includes accrued and estimated dividends to the June 2017 vesting date, is pro-rated for his service to the PRN sale date when he exited the Group, and is based on the three month average share price to 31 December 2016 of 7.11.
Loss of office payments audited No payments were made in 2016.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The Executive Directors are generally expected to achieve the relevant shareholding guideline five years after appointment.
From 1 January 2017 shareholding guidelines have been increased from 150% of salary to 200% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary to 150% of salary for the CFO.
LTIP awards Unvested Unvested awards, Unvested Shares awards, subject to options, Vested Shareholding Current owned subject to continued subject to awards, not requirement Shareholding Date to meet Requirement Director outright performance employment performance exercised % of salary % of salary requirement Met Tim Cobbold 9,254 66,058 719,764 200% of 10% 17 May 2022 No base salary Marina Wyatt 3,711 59,814 331,707 150% of 6% 17 May 2022 No base salary Note: The previous shareholding guidelines of 150% for the CEO and 100% for the CFO to be met by the original dates 6 May 2019 and 1 September 2020 respectively 91 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 3: Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Total interests in shares audited The table below sets out the Directors current interests in UBM shares all of which are beneficial shown as at 31 December 2016 or date of leaving if earlier.
Bonus Ordinary Deferral shares1 at shares2 at 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 Executive Directors Tim Cobbold 9,254 59,144 Marina Wyatt 3,711 6,284 Non-Executive Directors Dame Helen Alexander 61,629 Alan Gillespie 19,916 Pradeep Kar 22,794 Greg Lock 30,240 Terry Neill 46,244 John McConnell 4,721 Mary McDowell 3,495 Trynka Shineman 877 David Wei 0 1 Includes shares held under the Companys Sharebuild SIP Plan 2 The Bonus Deferral shares represent interests in shares acquired by Tim Cobbold and Marina Wyatt through the surrender of cash bonuses and also includes the associated Dividend shares accrued to date.
These interests are also shown as Deferred Bonus Plan awards in the Scheme interests table below.
Changes since year end: On 16 January 2017 Tim Cobbold and Marina Wyatt both purchased 20 shares at 7.48 and on 16 February 2017 Tim Cobbold and Marina Wyatt both purchased 21 shares at 7.209 under the Companys Sharebuild SIP Plan.
Scheme interests The table below shows details of outstanding awards held by Executive Directors, including awards granted in 2016 under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
PSP awards were subject to the achievement of performance conditions which were set at grant.
Deferred Bonus Plan awards are based on the prior achievement of annual performance conditions and vest subject to continued employment only.
In normal circumstances, Executive Directors are permitted to accept one outside corporate directorship, subject to Board approval.
In exceptional circumstances two directorships may be allowed.
Directors are entitled to retain the fees earned.
Tim Cobbold is an independent Non-Executive Director of Drax Group plc and received fees of 55,000 during 2016.
92 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Marina Wyatt is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks Group plc in the UK, receiving fees of 46,920 during 2016 and a member of the Supervisory Board of Lucas Bols NV in The Netherlands receiving fees of 30,000 during 2016.
Both roles were held by Marina at the time of her recruitment, and the Board therefore considered it was appropriate that she continued in these roles.
The Board keeps this position under review but given the relative size of the companies and time commitment required, it remains comfortable that this does not impact on Marinas ability to properly carry out her UBM role.
Historic executive pay and Company performance TSR performance and CEO remuneration outcomes The graph below compares the TSR of UBM and the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index is the comparator group for the 2016 PSP award and is therefore considered by the Committee to be the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Group should be compared.
TSR Performance 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FTSE 250 UBM Historic CEO pay outcomes The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-out and LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current year and previous six years.
Prior to this the CEO was David Levin Change in remuneration of the CEO compared to UBM employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of the comparator group selected by the Committee.
The employee comparison consists of all UK-based employees.
It has been selected because it represents a wide variety of roles, responsibilities and pay levels and because these employees are also subject to the same cost of living standards and income tax regime as the CEO.
During 2016, the cost of providing private medical insurance to employees reduced.
The value of employees benefits increased because of the life insurance premium.
% change in benefits % change in excluding % change base salary pension in bonus CEO 2.0% -68.2% 8.5% UK Employees 3.8% 1.50% 3.8% 93 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 3: Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Relative spend on pay The chart below shows the actual expenditure on pay for all employees compared with profit after tax and distributions to shareholders for 2015 and 2016.
Relative spend on pay m 250 200 150 100 50 0 profit after tax for Distributions to All employee pay m continuing operations m shareholders m 2015 2016 The information shown in this chart in based on the following: Profit after tax from continuing operations Taken from the Group consolidated income statement see page 113 Distribution to shareholders Total dividends excluding special dividend of 243.7m paid in July 2016 Total employee pay Total employment costs see page 163, including: wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based payments note 7.3 2016 distributions to shareholders excludes 243.7m special dividend Statement of shareholding voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the 2015 Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM and the last Remuneration Policy Report vote at the 2014 AGM: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Number % Number % Number Annual Report on Remuneration 308,644,126 96.23% 12,095,931 3.77% 7,661,793 Policy Report 161,114,605 95.78% 7,104,817 4.22% 82,515 Votes withheld have been excluded from the percentage calculations.
94 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year The following tables set out the key details of each element of the Remuneration Policy to be in operation during the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
Executive Directors Component Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance targets Base Salary Tim Cobbold: 679,575 2.5% increase n a n a Marina Wyatt: 461,250 2.5% increase To align with changes for other employees the effective date for salary increases will move to 1 March from 2019, with increases effective from 1 January in 2017, and from 1 February in 2018 Pension Level of contribution allowance dependent on n a n a local market and seniority of the individual 20% pension allowance or contribution to DC pension plan Benefits Executive Directors receive healthcare, n a n a income protection and life assurance benefits Annual bonus For maximum performance: The bonus in 2017 will be based on the The actual target range will be disclosed following measures: retrospectively in next years Directors Tim Cobbold: 150% of salary Remuneration Report 75% Financial targets Marina Wyatt: 120% of salary 25% Adjusted EPS None of the bonus pays out for performance below threshold 95% of target 25% Group EBITA margin 25% Revenue of 1m events 25% Personal objectives Group Revenue targets will be disclosed Performance Tim Cobbold: The quantum of the PSP award Performance will be assessed against Share Plan will be 170% of base salary four independent, equally weighted, retrospectively following the end of the metrics: performance period.
Marina Wyatt: The quantum of the PSP award will be 150% of base salary 25% Total Group Revenue EPS growth of 6% p. a.
25% vesting Awards vest as follows: 25% EPS EPS growth of 10% p. a.
100% vesting Threshold performance: 25% of the award 25% ROACE ROACE weighted average of: Maximum performance: 100% of the award 25% relative TSR performance 1.
Existing capital - to meet ROACE for 2016 i. e. 14.7% or exceed i. e. 15.5% Straight-line vesting between these levels of performance 2.
New investments - new acquisitions should achieve respective business case return Relative TSR growth at median of FTSE 250 25% vesting Relative TSR growth outperforms median of FTSE 250 by 10% p. a.
100% vesting Further details on Total Group Revenue for 2017 PSP awards The Committee believes that the introduction of Total Group Revenue alongside the existing measures of TSR, EPS growth and Return on Average Capital Employed will support the delivery of Events First and the creation of shareholder value.
UBM has established strong governance and controls around our acquisition strategy, including required returns criteria.
This is reported to the Board and, for acquisitions of a certain size, the Board reviews each proposal before determining whether to proceed or not.
Furthermore, in order to safeguard against unprofitable organic revenue growth, a consistent approach has been introduced to assess and approve new event launches across the Group.
The Committee is confident that it has the governance and controls in place to ensure incentivising revenue growth drives the right management behaviours for the benefit of shareholders, and it will continue to apply its judgement and discretion as appropriate.
95 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Section 3: Directors Annual Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors fees are paid partly in cash and partly in UBM shares.
Cash fees are paid monthly in arrears.
The share-based element is satisfied by the delivery of shares six-monthly in arrears.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Director receive additional fees.
The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown below.
These will be reviewed during 2017.
Cash Shares Chairman 155,000 120,000 Non-Executive Director 40,000 18,000 Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 12,000 Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 12,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 By order of the Board Greg Lock Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 February 2017 96 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the Annual statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
To date, the Directors have not used the authority to make market purchases.
Shares Strategic Report have been allotted during the year to satisfy options under The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 contains information the Companys Save As You Earn Scheme.
Details of the relating to the performance of the Companys business during number of shares allotted are set out on page 169. the financial year, the position of the Company at the end of the year and likely future developments.
Shareholders will be asked to renew the above authorities at the 2017 AGM in line with the most recent institutional Results for the year and dividends investors guidelines.
The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement on page 113.
The balance to be transferred Rights and obligations attached to shares to reserves is 504.5m.
The Directors recommend a final There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in dividend of 16.6p per share for the year ended 31 December the Company which is governed by its Articles of Association 2016, to be paid on 25 May 2017 to those shareholders on and prevailing legislation.
The Company is not aware of any the register on 28 April 2017. agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result The following interim dividends were paid during the year: in restrictions on voting rights.
8 July 2016 55.3p per share Special Dividend Subject to applicable statutes, rights attached to any class 11 October 2016 5.4p per share of share may be varied with the consent of the holders of at The total dividends payable in respect of the year ended least three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares 31 December 2016 amount to 22.0p per share 2015: 21.6p.
of that class, or by special resolution passed at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
Special Dividend and Share Consolidation At the General Meeting held on 7 January 2016 shareholders Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 approved the disposal of PRN and an associated Share the Companies Law, any resolution passed by the Company Consolidation and Special Dividend proposal, which would under the Companies Law and other shareholders rights, take place as soon as practicable following completion of the shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the disposal, which took place on 16 June 2016.
On 27 June 2016 Company may by ordinary resolution decide.
Subject to the each shareholder received 8 new ordinary shares of 11.25 Articles of Association, Companies Jersey Law 1991 and pence for each 9 ordinary shares held on the record other shareholder rights, unissued shares are at the disposal date of 24 June 2016.
On 8 July 2016 shareholders received of the Board.
an interim dividend of 55.3p for each ordinary share held on the record date.
Employee share plans The Company operates a number of all-employee and Share capital discretionary share plans.
Shares acquired through Company The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in Exchange.
Details of the Companys authorised and issued issue and have no special rights.
share capital at 31 December 2016 are as follows: Authorised Share Capital: 1,081,888,657 Sharesave the Companys Save As You Earn Scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Issued Share Capital: 393,908,858 Under the terms of the Scheme, the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company once in each Powers of the Company to issue or buy back its own shares financial year to those employees who contribute into a HMRC On 7 January 2016, shareholders approved a share approved savings contract to save up to 500 per calendar consolidation.
This resulted in issuing 8 new ordinary shares month.
The price at which options may be offered is 80% of of 11.25 pence each for every 9 ordinary shares of 10 pence the average mid-market price for three consecutive dealing each in issue at close of business on 24 June 2016. days preceding the offer date.
The options may normally be Shareholders approved certain authorities at the Companys exercised during the six month period after the completion 2016 AGM related to the Companys share capital.
As part of of the Sharesave contract.
the share consolidation which completed on 27 June 2016, these authorities were refreshed and adjusted to account for the share consolidation.
The Directors now have authority to: allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 14,765,918: allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 29,531,836, for the purpose of a rights issue: and make market purchases of up to 39,375,781 shares in the Company, representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the time.
97 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Report continued Sharebuild is an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan which Change of control was approved by shareholders on 14 May 2015.
It allows The Company is party to change of control provisions in its eligible, UK tax resident employees to purchase UBM Ordinary principal financing agreements as follows: shares out of pre-tax salary Partnership Shares.
Ordinary shares are purchased in the market and held in a Trust until The $350m 5.75% bonds due in November 2020 contain the participant chooses to withdraw from the Plan.
Whilst provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the they are in the Trust, dividends are paid on the shares and Company.
The holders of such bonds have the right to re-invested into purchasing additional shares Dividend repayment at 101% of par if the Company is non-investment Shares.
The shares must be held in the Trust for a minimum grade on any day during the period commencing 60 days time period specified by HMRC to retain their tax prior to the first public announcement of any change of efficient status.
control or pending change of control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such change of control The UBM ESOP Trust the Trust is an Employee Benefit Trust provided the change in rating is related to the change which at 20 February 2017, being the latest practicable date in control.
prior to publication of this Report, holds 759,767 ordinary shares of 11.25p each 2015: 1,528,707 shares of 10p each.
In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility of Awards are granted to employees at the discretion of the 400m due in April 2021 which includes provisions which are Company under executive share schemes and the Trust triggered on a change of control of the Company giving each agrees to satisfy the awards in accordance with the wishes of bank the right to repayment of borrowings and reduction in the Company and the Trust Deed.
The shares are acquired in commitment to zero.
the market, and dividends are waived on all shares held in the Trust.
The Trust abstains from voting at General Meetings.
The $365m Bridge Facility due in December 2018 contains Further information is available in Note 5.8 to the Accounts provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the on page 154.
Company giving each bank the right to repayment of borrowings and reduction in commitment to zero.
External substantial shareholdings As at 20 February 2017, being the latest practical date prior There are no agreements between the Company and its to the publication of this Report, the Company had been Directors or employees providing for compensation for notified of the following significant interests in voting rights loss of office or employment whether through resignation, in its ordinary share capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a the FCAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: takeover bid.
% of share Employees Shareholder name capital The number of employees of the group as at 31 December APG Asset Management N. V 6.18 2016 was 3,852 2015: 3,494.
The average number of employees during the year was 3,586 2015: 3,492.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at The Goldsmiths The Group has amongst its employees a number who are Centre, 42 Britton Street, Clerkenwell, London EC1M 5AD disabled.
It gives full and fair consideration to applications for on Wednesday 17 May 2017 at 2.30pm.
A letter from employment from disabled persons.
In the event of employees the Chairman and the Notice of Meeting, containing a becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their description of the business to be transacted, is available employment with the Group continues and to provide on the Companys website at www.
specialised training where this is appropriate.
Auditors The Group continued its culture of informing and involving EY have indicated their willingness to continue in office for employees in matters which concern them through various the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and a resolution channels, including regular meetings between management for their reappointment and remuneration will be proposed at and employees, workshops on understanding the financial the Annual General Meeting.
results and the strategy of the Company.
The Hub and the Performance Plus annual appraisal process are also ways in Political donations which the Group regularly connects with employees.
The Group made no political donations during 2016 2015: nil.
98 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Assumptions and estimations GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Assumptions are kept to a minimum.
Due to the materiality We have reported on all the emission sources required under assessment carried out in 2015, carbon emissions from the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors employee commuter travel were not deemed as material Reports Regulations 2013.
We do not have responsibility and therefore have not been calculated since 2015.
Instead for any emission sources that are not included in this commuter travel emissions were estimated based on 2014 consolidated statement.
average emissions per head and up-scaled for 2015 and 2016.
In addition, where business travel emissions were missing for Methodology offices not yet included in the global data allocation software, We have followed the 2013 UK Government Environmental these were scaled up using the 2016 average per head.
The Reporting Guidance and used the GHG Protocol Corporate percentage of data collected has been recorded for each Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition source of emissions and is detailed in the below table.
published by WBCSD & WRI the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute.
Base year Emission factors were US eGRID 2009 and the UK 2010 was set as the base year, as this was the first time Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company carbon emissions were reported globally with reliable data.
Reporting in association with Carbon Smart.
The reported emissions also form part of our submission for the Carbon Base year recalculation policy Disclosure Project CDP.
The baseline recalculation policy is reviewed annually and takes into account any significant business change above External assurance a 5% threshold and or developments in climate change or Our carbon disclosure has been assured against CDP carbon management regulation.
For example, the reporting approved verification standard AA1000, by Trucost plc for of 2015 environmental impacts reflects two changes from the last five years.
To see the most recent assurance the previous years reporting.
Firstly, the Company updated statement, please refer to the Companys website at: its greenhouse gas emissions factors to current versions.
Secondly, UBMs operations grew due to the acquisition of Advanstar and the sale of PRN.
These revisions should be Materiality considered when reviewing year-on-year environmental UBM conducted a materiality assessment during 2015, and impacts.
2015 event data has not been restated to reflect now reports on all aspects deemed as material, which includes these changes.
the use of energy and materials at our events.
Organisational boundary The organisational boundary is determined by the operational control approach.
UBM has operational control over all office buildings owned and leased by UBM, including event space leased, but does not have control over sub-let space and non-UBM tenant emissions.
Operational scopes We have measured our scope 1, scope 2 and certain scope 3 emissions.
These carbon emissions are calculated for all Global UBM offices and events, where data is available.
Measure of 2014 % 2015 % 2016 % Data recorded on: coverage of data of data of data Natural gas at offices Floor area 95% 97% 100% Electricity at offices Floor area 95% 96% 96% Offsite data centres Floor area 100% 100% 100% Fugitive emissions at offices Floor area 10% 11% 18% Water at offices Headcount 40% 35% 41% Waste at offices Headcount 39% 39% 44% Business travel flights Headcount 29% 36% 19% Business travel train, taxi, car hire Headcount 57% 62% Commuter travel Headcount 53% Estimated Estimated Energy at events Event space recorded 52% 91% 93% Waste at events Event space recorded 49% 84% 90% 99 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Report Directors Report continued Directors and their interests The Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the Directors to Biographical details of the Directors in office as at prepare financial statements for each financial period in 21 February 2017 are set out on pages 58 to 59 and are accordance with generally accepted accounting principles incorporated into this Report by reference.
The following prescribed for the purposes of the Companies Law for market Directors held office during the year: traded companies.
The financial statements of the Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of, or be Dame Helen Alexander presented fairly in all material respects so as to show the Tim Cobbold state of affairs of the Company at the end of the period Marina Wyatt covered by the accounts and of the profit or loss of the Alan Gillespie Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Greg Lock Directors should: John McConnell select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Mary McDowell consistently Terry Neill make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Trynka Shineman appointed on 1 March 2016 specify which generally accepted accounting principles David Wei appointed on 1 November 2016 have been followed in their preparation Pradeep Kar retired on 22 September 2016 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Company will continue in business the Code all current Directors will submit themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting, except The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records for Alan Gillespie, who, in line with best practice, will choose which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys not to seek re-election at the AGM following completion of his transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable third three-year term.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Tim Cobbold and Marina Wyatt each have a service contract prepared by the Company comply with the requirements of which is subject to 12 months notice on either side.
Dame the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible Helen Alexander has a contract for services which is subject for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company to six months notice from either party.
None of the Nonand hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Executive Directors have a service contract and all are detection of fraud and other irregularities.
considered by the Company to be independent.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The interests of the Directors in office at 31 December 2016 integrity of the corporate and financial information included in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the Remuneration Report on page 92.
No Director had a material preparation and dissemination of financial statements may interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to Disclosure Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and Transparency Rule 4 The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Each of the Directors at the date of this Report, whose names Insurance cover for all Directors, officers and senior and functions are listed on pages 58 to 59 confirm that, to employees against liabilities which may be incurred by them the best of their knowledge: whilst performing their duties for the Company or any of its the Group financial statements in this Report, which have subsidiaries.
The insurance is governed by English Law.
been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Statement of Directors responsibilities Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International So far as each Director of the Board is aware, there is no Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, relevant audit information of which the Companys external and the Company financial statements in this Report, which auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all steps have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom necessary in order to make themselves aware of, and to accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the establish that the external auditor is aware of, any relevant assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the audit information.
The Directors are responsible for preparing Company and the undertakings included in the the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance consolidation taken as a whole: and with applicable law and regulations.
the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
100 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Post Balance Sheet Events Details of material post Balance Sheet events can be found at note 8.3.
Other information Other information relevant to and forming part of the Directors Report is to be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Strategic Report Strategy pages 2 to 55 Risk Management pages 40 to 44 Operating and Financial Review pages 46 to 55 Governance Corporate Governance Statement pages 60 to 61 Nominations Committee pages 62 to 63 Audit Committee pages 70 to 75 Remuneration Committee pages 77 to 96 Treasury Policy Financial Review page 54 Section 5 of the Financial Statements pages 143 to 154 Going Concern page 55 The Directors Report of UBM plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprises pages 97 to 101 of this Annual Report and the other sections listed above, which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
By order of the Board Mark Peters Group Company Secretary 21 February 2017 UBM plc Registered number: 100460 Registered office: 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG 101 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS 1 102 02 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Pharmapack Europe Paris Financial Statements 104 Independent Auditors Report 113 Consolidated income statement 114 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 115 Consolidated statement of financial position 116 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 117 Consolidated statement of cash flows 118 Section 1 Basis of preparation 122 Section 2 Segment information 125 Section 3 Operating profit and tax 125 3.1 Revenue 125 3.2 Other operating income 125 3.3 Operating expenses 126 3.4 Operating leases 127 3.5 Exceptional operating items 128 3.6 Tax 131 3.7 Earnings per share 133 Section 4 Financial position 133 4.1 Goodwill 135 4.2 Intangible assets 137 4.3 Property, plant and equipment 138 4.4 Investments in joint ventures and associates 140 4.5 Working capital 140 4.5.
3 Trade and other payables 141 4.6 Provisions 143 Section 5 Capital structure and financial policy 144 5.1 Movements in net debt 144 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents 144 5.3 Borrowings 145 5.4 Net financing expense 146 5.5 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 148 5.6 Fair values and fair value hierarchy 150 5.7 Financial risk management objectives and policies 153 5.8 Equity and dividends 155 Section 6 Acquisitions and disposals 155 6.1 Acquisitions 158 6.2 Equity transactions 159 6.3 Disposals 160 6.4 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale 163 Section 7 Employee benefits 163 7.1 Employee costs 163 7.2 Retirement benefit obligations 168 7.3 Share-based payments 170 Section 8 Other notes 170 8.1 Group subsidiaries 176 8.2 Related party transactions 177 8.3 Events after the reporting period 178 Ad ditional information 178 Five year summary 178 Exchange rates 179 UBM plc parent company financial statements and related notes 188 Glossary 189 Shareholder Information 103
