AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued The Audit Committee concluded that, given the Quality of audit work including ability to This Remuneration Report comprises two parts: The Remuneration Policy stated above was Recommendation to the Board Appointment controls and reporting in place throughout the year, resolve issues in a timely manner: approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
the rental income number included in the financial Remuneration Policy, which is subject to a There have been no changes to the Policy since Working relationship with the Committee Following its review of the Annual Report and The Company only intends to appoint nonstatements of 68,571,000 was appropriate.
binding shareholder vote every three years.
It is the Boards intention that the Policy and Manager: Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016, executive Directors: be put to a shareholders vote every three years An annual report on the implementation of the Audit Committee has advised the Board and an ordinary resolution in this regard will be Taxation: Suitably qualified personnel involved in All the Directors are non-executive appointed that its considers that the Annual Report and remuneration, which provides information proposed at the AGM in 2019. the audit: and How was the issue addressed?
under the terms of Letters of Appointment: on how the policy has been applied during the Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information year and which will be subject to an advisory Cost effectiveness and the independence and Directors must retire and be subject to election Implementation Report vote on the level of remuneration paid during necessary for shareholders and other users to objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard Taxation is undertaken in accordance with the at the first AGM after their appointment, and the year as set out in the Implementation Report.
assess the Companys position, performance, accounting policy disclosed in note 1 g to the to non-audit fees.
annually thereafter: business model and strategy.
Based on the tax computations submitted New appointments to the Board will be placed Remuneration Policy The performance and effectiveness of the auditors to HMRC which showed that the Group had over Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Association on the fee applicable to all Directors at the time The Audit Committee is able to give this advice 50 million of tax losses, the Committee noted in relation to the above points was considered currently limits the aggregate fees payable to of appointment currently 35,000 : on the basis that it has carefully scrutinised the through a formal evaluation template completed that there was potential for a deferred tax asset to the Board of Directors to a total of 300,000 per This part of the Remuneration Report provides Annual Report and Accounts document, which be recognised.
Detailed forecasts prepared by the by the Committee and the Managers.
No incentive or introductory fees will be paid annum.
No change to this limit is proposed for the details of the Companys Remuneration Policy for is prepared by the Manager and subsequently Investment Manager indicated that, following the to encourage a Directorship: forthcoming year.
This policy takes into subject to external audit, specifically focusing The Audit Committee considers that it received refinancing of the internal loan notes in the year, consideration the principles of the UK Corporate on the significant issues detailed in this Report.
The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, the Group would generate rental income profits all necessary information from the Companys Directors Remuneration Rates Governance Code and the AICs recommendations In its consideration of the document, the members pension benefits, share options, long term service providers as well as from the external and hence the losses referred to above would be regarding the application of those principles to incentive schemes or other benefits: and of the Audit Committee put themselves in the utilised resulting in the requirement to provide for auditor in order for it to compile the necessary investment companies.
As the Company has no position of a shareholder and considered carefully disclosures.
The Committee noted the full Following a review by the Board of Directors a net deferred tax asset of 6,515,000.
In addition The Company indemnifies its Directors for all employees and the Board is comprised wholly of whether the comments made are consistent co-operation of all parties in producing the remuneration which took into account the nature to this, the Committee recognised that Brixton costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities non-executive Directors and given the size and with their view of the overall performance of the of their duties, responsibilities and the value Radlett Property Limited BRPL, being a UK Annual Report and no difficulties or disagreements which may be incurred in the discharge of duties.
nature of the Company, the Board has not established Company during the period under consideration.
Following the completion of the of their time spent as well as a review of other registered Company, was not covered by the tax a separate Remuneration Committee.
Consideration Specifically, consideration has been given to the comparable vehicles that are similar in size, losses previously built up and hence would have audit, the Audit Committee and Board followed of Directors fees and remuneration policy is Performance, Service Contracts, Financial and Property Highlights section to a systematic approach to evaluate the auditor and Directors remuneration for the forthcoming to provide for tax on its rental profits for the year.
undertaken by the Nominations Committee.
Compensation and Loss of Office ensure that the points raised in this have been the effectiveness of the audit process and found financial year will be as follows: A provision of 117,000 has been made in the selected so as to give a fair picture of the Companys financial statements being an estimate of the tax this to be satisfactory.
The Directors are non-executive and their fees are position and that the performance data in the payable by BRPL on its net rental profits during 31 December 31 December The Directors remuneration is not subject to set within the limits of the Companys Articles of document has not been selected so as to give the year.
The Audit Committee conducted an audit tender any performance related fee: 2017 2016 Association which limit the aggregate fees payable a misleadingly optimistic view of the Company.
process during 2015 and recommended to the to the Board of Directors per annum.
The level of cap The Audit Committee has also critically reviewed No Director has a service contract: Board that Deloitte LLP be appointed as auditor for Review of Auditor may be increased by shareholder resolution from the Investment Managers report to ensure that the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Chairman 55,000 50,000 No Director was interested in contracts with the time to time.
Subject to this overall limit, the Boards the comments made in this are consistent with This appointment was approved by shareholders policy is that the remuneration of non-executive Company during the period or subsequently: The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the their knowledge of the Company and with the at the 2016 AGM.
The lead audit partner is Mr John Directors should reflect the nature of their duties, Audit Committee, which also considers the terms figures in the accounts.
As with any Company, Chairman Clacy.
Prior to the appointment of Deloitte LLP, The terms of appointment provide that 44,500 40,000 responsibilities and the value of their time spent and of Audit Committee under which the external auditor is appointed to there are some elements in the accounts that Ernst & Young LLP acted as auditor for the Group a Director may be removed without notice: be fair and comparable to that of other comparable perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and are inevitably more complex than others and from 2006 to 2015.
Details of the amounts paid to vehicles that are similar in size, have a similar capital Compensation will not be due upon leaving independence of the auditor is safeguarded by the Audit Committee has been at pains to have Deloitte LLP during the year for audit fees is set out Chair of Risk structure and have a similar investment objective.
39,250 office: and obtaining assurances from the auditor that adequate these expressed in clear language so as to make Committee in note 4 to the accounts.
policies and procedures exist within its firm to them as understandable as possible.
No Director is entitled to any other monetary Fees are annually reviewed against comparable ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the Chair of Management In relation to non-audit fees, these amounted in payment or any assets of the Company.
vehicles, and other factors, and if considered Engagement 39,250 Company by reason of family, finance, employment, Ken McCullagh aggregate to 0 2015: 60,250 for the year ended appropriate, increased accordingly.
The current Committee investment and business relationships other than Chairman of the Audit Committee 31 December 2016.
Where any non-audit fee is Directors & Officers liability insurance fee levels are as follows: in the normal course of the business and enforcing 19 April 2017 expected to exceed 25,000, the Company operates Chair of Property cover is maintained by the Company on behalf a policy concerning the provision of non-audit a policy under which specific prior approval must Valuation 39,250 of the Directors.
services by the auditor which governs the types of Committee be given by the Committee.
Notwithstanding 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 work which are excluded.
The Audit Committee the provision of such non-audit services, the reviews the scope and results of the audit including Audit Committee considers Deloitte LLP to be Director 37,500 35,000 the following areas: independent, given the safeguards put in place Chairman 50,000 50,000 by Deloitte LLP to ensure independence.
Chairman of 40,000 40,000 Audit Committee Director 35,000 35,000 44 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts 45
