DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Review of progress on communicating and implementing the new ATTENDANCE remuneration framework if approved by shareholders.
Ann Fudge Chair 7 7 Fair Compensation Framework principles and developments.
Vittorio Colao 7 7 Michael Treschow Member until April 2016 3 3 Marijn Dekkers Member since April 2016 4 4 FORMAT OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Nils Andersen Member until April 2016 3 3 Our Directors Remuneration Report is split into the following sections: Strive Masiyiwa Member since April 2016 3 4 Letter from the Chair pages 49 to 50 This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings held At a Glance: How the Remuneration Policy will be applied to in the year ended 31 December 2016.
If Directors are unable to attend a Executive Directors in 2017 page 51 meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda New Remuneration Policy pages 52 to 64 items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number Annual Remuneration Report 2016 pages 65 to 77. of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016 Further review and shaping of Unilevers future reward framework to ensure that it remains aligned with strategy and long-term shareholder value creation, resulting in the new Remuneration Policy presented for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGMs further details on pages 52 to 64.
Productive engagement with shareholders and stakeholders during the year in advance of the 2017 renewal of Unilevers Remuneration Policy.
Review of the development of Unilevers Fair Compensation Framework and alignment with Living Wages that will be used to shape the way Unilever pays its people, to ensure that all of our people are treated with responsibility, respect and integrity.
Review of progress in implementing and extending employee share ownership through SHARES Unilevers buy 3 get 1 free share purchase plan which is now offered to our non-senior management employees in 104 countries.
48 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 A REWARD FRAMEWORK FOR THE FUTURE LETTER FROM THE CHAIR During the year, the Committee undertook an extensive review of Unilevers Reward Framework.
During this process I have been DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, privileged to meet and engage with many of our investors and other I am pleased to present Unilevers 2016 Directors Remuneration stakeholders.
I would like to express my thanks to all those who have Report.
Outlined below is our performance and the decisions we have contributed so constructively to this exercise.
We reviewed our Reward Framework in light of four key principles: BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION OUTCOMES simplify reward: FOR 2016 increase shareholding levels throughout Unilevers ANNUAL BONUS: ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD ALL-ROUND management population: ensure consistent alignment of performance measures with PERFORMANCE DELIVERY our strategy: and Despite another year of tough economic conditions where the global increase the timeframe over which incentives are delivered.
landscape remained volatile, 2016 saw a good all-round performance and strong delivery of our targets, demonstrating the progress made We are therefore making several changes to Unilevers Reward in transforming Unilever into a more resilient business.
Despite the Framework for our senior leadership team below Board level, increasingly volatile environment, we achieved underlying sales growth specifically members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE and of 3.7%, ahead of our markets and broadly in line with target, together our Top 500 managers.
These changes are set out in this letter.
We with above-target core operating margin improvement of 50 basis are also proposing to make some changes to how the Executive points.
For the annual bonus calculations, free cash flow FCF is Directors are paid as part of the new Remuneration Policy to be calculated on a constant currency basis at 4.7 billion equivalent to presented to shareholders at our 2017 AGMs set out on pages 52 to 64. the reported 4.8 billion at current rates, driven by the increase in NEW REWARD FRAMEWORK FOR THE ULE AND core operating profit and improvement in working capital, also broadly TOP 500 MANAGERS in line with target.
Our existing Reward Framework has served Unilever very well.
This performance led to a formulaic outcome of 121% of target for Unilever has embedded a strong performance culture and has the performance factor, which applies to bonuses across Unilever consistently delivered good results over the longer term.
However, management recommended Committee now sees an opportunity to place a greater emphasis on a downwards adjustment to 110%, in light of overall quality of results long-term employee share ownership to support Unilevers Connected as we ended the year with slower growth in a tougher economic 4 Growth initiative.
In our new Reward Framework, longer-term environment.
The Committee believes this represents a fair personal commitment through share ownership drives reward.
assessment of Unilevers overall performance over the year.
For our ULE members excluding the Executive Directors and Top Following application of personal performance multipliers, a bonus of 500 managers, we will simplify their reward arrangements by 185% of salary was awarded for the CEO and a bonus of 121% of salary consolidating fixed pay into a single figure and discontinuing the GSIP.
Pay for this population effective from mid-2017 will comprise three GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN GSIP AND elements: fixed pay: MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN MCIP : annual bonus: and SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE DELIVERY MCIP.
Over the past three years, Unilever has delivered consistent financial performance.
Underlying sales growth during this period was 3.6% per To achieve a genuinely longer-term performance horizon of five years, annum and core operating margin improvement over the period was we will encourage our managers to invest a proportion of their annual an average of 40 basis points per year, demonstrating managements bonus after tax in Unilever shares through a revised longer-term continued drive for consistent topand bottom-line growth.
Unilever version of Unilevers MCIP, for which approval will be sought at the also generated strong operating cash flow in the period, with 2017 AGMs.
The maximum investment is 100% of a managers annual cumulative operating cash flow of 18.1 billion.
The performance period on the MCIP has been increased from return TSR over this three-year period was in the middle third of the three years to four years.
MCIP matching shares will vest as currently peer group but below the threshold for vesting.
in the range of zero to 200%, depending on Unilevers performance.
On the basis of this performance, the Committee determined that the The total time horizon of the annual bonus and subsequent MCIP in GSIP and MCIP awards to the end of 2016 will vest at 70% of initial which it is invested is therefore five years.
The Committee discussed target award levels i. e. 35% of maximum for GSIP and 47% of performance measures with key investors during the consultation maximum for MCIP.
process and has amended performance measures on the MCIP to support the achievement of our longer-term business strategy, as set out on page 59.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 49 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For our ULE members excluding the Executive Directors and 2 Simplify and rebalance Top 500 managers this new MCIP is the only long-term incentive.
This will involve, as for other Unilever senior managers, discontinuing These individuals will receive increases in fixed pay and bonus GSIP so that MCIP is the only long-term incentive plan, and simplifying opportunity to ensure that the total value of their package is fixed pay into a single consolidated fixed pay number.
To maintain unchanged at target under the new Reward Framework if they target levels of pay this will require a rebalancing of the package continue to invest 60% of their annual bonus in Unilever shares towards fixed pay and bonus invested in Unilever shares.
In 2017 we will consult further with investors regarding the details and We intend to apply the principles driving these proposals to the way we timing of this full alignment to the approach we are already applying to pay all of our managers.
Further, over the last two years we have our most senior managers below Executive Director level.
offered our buy 3 get 1 free global share purchase plan SHARES to staff below senior management level across 104 of the 109 countries The CFO was recently promoted to the Board and has performed in which we employ people.
While continuing to advance SHARES, we strongly in role since appointment.
The Committee has therefore also intend to extend the reach of our executive share incentives from determined, in line with our existing remuneration policy, to award him 3,000 senior managers to all of our 15,000 managers worldwide from a salary increase of 5%.
The Committee will continue to review the 2018 onwards.
CFOs salary in view of his performance and development in role, and may continue to make salary increases that exceed that of the wider Through these initiatives we will encourage all our employees fully to workforce over the life of our new Remuneration Policy, although any adopt an owners mindset with the goal of achieving our growth further salary increases awarded will not exceed 15% in aggregate ambition, so they can continuously reinvest and share in the future over the course of this Remuneration Policy.
FRAMEWORK FOR FAIR COMPENSATION NEW REWARD FRAMEWORK FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Committee is aware of and takes into consideration reward We had extensive and constructive consultation with our shareholders conditions elsewhere in the group.
We are also aware of the on how best to apply the new pay framework to our Executive developing regulatory environment on executive pay in the UK, Europe Directors.
Our aim is, in due course, to apply the new Reward and the US, and will continue to monitor this over the coming year so Framework to Executive Directors in the same way as to other senior that we can respond to new requirements and best practice.
The intention is to do this without any structural increase in proud of the Framework for Fair Compensation introduced by Unilever the target or maximum levels of pay.
com sustainable-living theTo make the MCIP our only long-term incentive plan for Executive   , while avoiding a reduction in target pay levels, will require workplace fair-compensation.
Through this framework, last year significant changes to the balance of the package, and in particular Unilever announced the target to achieve living wage compliance for more focus within the package on fixed pay and investment of annual all our employees globally by 2020. bonus in Unilever shares through MCIP.
We have decided to adopt the Following extensive discussions with key shareholders and other new framework in two steps: stakeholders, the Committee recommends these proposed changes 1 Lengthen MCIP horizon and increase shareholding requirements for your approval at the 2017 AGMs.
For 2017 this will mean: a four-year performance period on the MCIP, making it a five-year plan in total when combined with the year in which bonus is earned: Ann Fudge new performance measures will apply for the MCIP.
The current Chair of the Compensation Committee cap of 150% in respect of the vesting of Executive Directors MCIP matching shares will continue to apply, as will their current MCIP investment limits of 25-60% of annual bonus: increased shareholding requirements of 5 x salary for the CEO and 4 x salary for the CFO: the current level and structure of fixed pay will be retained, other than a 5% salary increase for the CFO see below : and GSIP will be retained, but with a two-year post-vesting holding period.
Post-employment holding periods, requiring 100% of the shareholding requirement to be retained for a year and 50% to be retained for two years, will continue to apply.
50 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 AT A GLANCE: HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WILL BE APPLIED TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN 2017 The table below sets out a summary of the new remuneration structure that will apply during the 2017 financial year subject to shareholder approval at our 2017 AGMs.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 65-77.
CEO CFO Base salary 1,010,000 656,250 No change Increase of 5% from current 625,000 Fixed allowances Fixed allowance 250,000 Fixed allowance 200,000 and other benefits Other benefits operated in line with policy Other benefits operated in line with policy No change No change Annual bonus 120% of base salary at target, 200% at maximum 100% of base salary at target, 150% at maximum No change No change MCIP Can invest up to the value of 60% of the gross 2016 annual bonus into the MCIP.
MCIP awards matching shares in the range of zero to 150% based on Unilevers performance over 4 years.
Performance period has increased from current 3 years and has revised performance measures.
GSIP Target award: 200% of salary, Target award: 150% of salary, Maximum award: 400% of salary Maximum award: 300% of salary Performance assessed over 3 years with Performance assessed over 3 years with a subsequent 2 year holding period a subsequent 2 year holding period Holding period is an additional requirement Holding period is an additional requirement under the new Remuneration Policy under the new Remuneration Policy Conditional 117,123 n a supplemental No change No change pension Shareholding 5 x base salary 5.05m 4 x base salary 2.625m requirement Increase from 4 x salary Increase from 3 x salary INCENTIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Performance measures for Executive Directors that will apply to MCIP and GSIP granted in 2017 and the 2017 bonus are as follows: ANNUAL BONUS MCIP GSIP performance measures Weight performance measures Weight performance measures Weight Underlying Sales Growth 33% Underlying Sales Growth 25% Underlying Sales Growth 25% USG USG USG Core Operating Margin Improvement 33% Core Earnings Per Share 25% Core Operating Margin 25% COM EPS COM Free Cash Flow 33% Sustainability Progress Index 25% Cumulative Operating Cash Flow 25% FCF USLP COCF Return on Invested Capital 25% Total Shareholder Return 25% ROIC TSR Performance target ranges for the Annual Bonus are considered to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in full in the 2017 DRR.
MCIP 2017 TARGETS GSIP 2017 TARGETS Performance conditions are assessed over a four-year period.
Performance conditions are assessed over a three-year period.
The performance conditions and target ranges for 2017 are as follows: The performance conditions and target ranges for 2017 are as follows: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 51 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY POLICY REPORT POLICY TABLE The following sets out our new Directors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Policy.
This new Remuneration Policy will be presented for approval by shareholders at the April 2017 AGMs and, if approved, applies to payments made after that date and replaces the existing remuneration policy in its entirety.
It is intended that the new Remuneration Policy will apply for three years, although the Compensation Committee may seek approval for a new policy at an earlier point if it is considered appropriate.
The supporting information section provides the rationale for any changes from the existing remuneration policy where appropriate.
BASE SALARY PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Supports the recruitment and retention of Executive Directors of the Any increases will normally be in line with the range of increases awarded calibre required to implement our strategy.
Reflects the individuals to other employees within the Group.
skills, experience, performance and role within the Group.
Increases may be above this level or applied more frequently in certain circumstances, such as: OPERATION where there is, in the Committees opinion, a significant change in an Set by the Boards on the recommendation of the Committee and Executive Directors scope or role: generally reviewed once a year, with any changes usually effective where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Boards on a from 1 January although changes may be made at any other time salary lower than the typical market level for such a role and becomes if the Committee considers that is appropriate.
established in the role: and Salary is paid in cash and is generally paid monthly.
where it is considered necessary to reflect significant changes in market practice.
Salary is set at an appropriate level to attract and retain Executive Directors of the required calibre, taking into account: The maximum aggregate increase for the current Executive Directors during the time in which this policy applies will be no higher than 15%.
i. our policy generally to pay at around the median of an This excludes the proposed increase of salary for the CFO for 2017. appropriate peer group of other global companies of a similar financial size and complexity to Unilever: PERFORMANCE MEASURES n a. ii.
the individuals skills, experience and performance: and SUPPORTING INFORMATION iii.
pay and conditions across the wider organisation.
A cap on the aggregate increase in salary over the duration of this Remuneration Policy has been set at 15% excluding the 5% salary increase for the CFO set out in the Letter from the Chair.
There are no other changes relative to the previous Remuneration Policy.
FIXED ALLOWANCE PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Provides a simple competitive alternative to the provision of itemised The fixed allowance will not exceed the value of current allowance benefits and pension, not linked to base salary.
provided as follows: CEO 250,000 OPERATION CFO 200,000.
The fixed allowance is reviewed periodically by the Committee and changes are usually effective from 1 January.
Set at an appropriate level taking into account the median of an appropriate peer group in line with the approach to base salary and SUPPORTING INFORMATION individual circumstances such as whether they have been required A cap on the fixed allowance has been set at the current levels provided.
to relocate to undertake their role.
Normally, paid monthly in cash.
52 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BENEFITS PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Provides certain benefits on a cost-effective basis to aid attraction Based on the cost to Unilever of providing the benefit and dependent on and retention of Executive Directors.
Relocation allowances the level of such benefits would be set at an OPERATION appropriate level by the Committee, taking into account the Provision of death, disability and medical insurance cover, directors circumstances of the individual and typical market practice.
liability insurance and actual tax return preparation costs.
Other benefits may be provided in the future where it is considered Social security obligation in the current CEOs country of residence necessary by the Committee and or required by legislation.
dependent on earnings and rates of social security.
In the event that Unilever were to require an existing or new The supplemental pension accrual for the CEO is capped from 2012 Executive Director to relocate, Unilever may pay appropriate onwards at 117,123. relocation allowances for a specified time period of no more than Awards under the all-employee Unilever PLC ShareBuy Plan may be up to three years.
This may cover costs such as but not limited to HMRC-approved limits.
The only change in the value of the current relocation, cost of living, housing benefit, home leave, tax and benefits for single figure purposes will reflect changes in the costs of social security equalisation and education assistance.
In line with the commitments made to the current CEO upon recruitment, Unilever pays the social security obligation in the PERFORMANCE MEASURES CEOs country of residence to protect him against the difference n a. between the employee social security obligations in his country SUPPORTING INFORMATION of residence versus the UK.
He also receives a conditional The ability to provide additional benefits has been restricted to only supplemental pension accrual to compensate him for the instances that the Committee considers are necessary or legally required.
arrangement forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
This supplemental pension accrual is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate on the same terms as all UK employees in the Unilever PLC ShareBuy plan.
The current peer group includes AstraZeneca, BASF, Bayer, BHP Billiton, BMW XET, BP, British American Tobacco, BT, Carrefour, Centrica, Daimler XET, Danone, Diageo, GlaxoSmithKline, Henkel XET, Imperial Brands, LOral, Metro, National Grid, Nestl, Novartis, Reckitt Benckiser, Rio Tinto, Roche, Royal Dutch Shell, SABMiller, Sanofi, Siemens, Tesco, Total and Volkswagen.
The peer group used for benchmarking purposes is reviewed regularly and companies are added and or removed at the Committees discretion to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 53 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Incentivises year-on-year delivery of stretching short-term Target bonus opportunities as a percentage of base salary are: financial, strategic and operational objectives selected to support CEO 120% our annual business strategy and the ongoing enhancement of Other Executive Directors 100% shareholder value.
Maximum bonus opportunities as a percentage of base salary are: The ability to recognise performance through annual bonus CEO 200% enables us to control our cost base flexibly and react to events and Other Executive Directors 150% market circumstances.
Achievement of threshold performance results in a payout of 0% of the OPERATION maximum opportunity, with straight-line vesting between threshold Each year Executive Directors may have the opportunity to and maximum.
participate in the annual bonus plan.
Executive Directors are set PERFORMANCE MEASURES a target opportunity that is assessed against the Business The Business Performance Multiplier is based on a range of business Performance Multiplier of up to 150% of target opportunity at the metrics set by the Committee on an annual basis to ensure that they end of the year.
are appropriately stretching for the delivery of threshold, target and Executive Directors personal performance is also assessed at maximum performance.
These performance measures may include the year end and may result in a Personal Performance Multiplier underlying sales growth USG, core operating margin improvement of up to 150%.
COM and free cash flow FCF.
The Business and Personal Performance Multipliers cannot result The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome of the in a bonus payout greater than the maximum set out in this Business Performance Multiplier up or down by up to plus or minus Remuneration Policy.
25%, based on results, if it believes this better reflects the underlying performance of Unilever.
In any event, the overall Business Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Executive Performance Multiplier will not exceed 150%.
The use of any discretion Directors are required to invest at least 25% and can invest up to a will be fully disclosed in the Remuneration Report for the year to which maximum of 60% of their gross annual bonus into Unilever shares discretion relates.
under the MCIP see the MCIP section on page 55.
When determining payouts the Committee will also consider Ultimate remedy malus and claw-back provisions apply see performance against personal performance goals and the quality of details on page 57. results delivered in terms of both business results and leadership.
The Committee may introduce non-financial measures in the future subject to a minimum of 70% of targets being financial in nature.
Performance is normally measured over the financial year.
SUPPORTING INFORMATION The maximum Personal Performance Multiplier is 150%.
The Committees discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome of the Business Performance Multiplier up or down has been capped at 25%.
54 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN MCIP PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY The MCIP encourages senior management to invest their own Executive Directors are required to invest 25% and may invest up to 60% money into Unilever shares, aligning their interests with of their gross annual bonus into Unilever shares.
shareholders, and focus on the sustained delivery of high The number of matching shares received at the end of the performance performance results over the long term.
period is a multiple of the number of shares invested into the MCIP which depends on performance as follows there is straight line vesting between OPERATION each of the points below : The MCIP is a share matching arrangement whereby Executive Threshold 0 x Directors can invest their own after-tax money into Unilever Target 1 x shares investment shares and be awarded matching shares Maximum 1.5 x which vest at the end of a four-year performance period.
The maximum possible opportunity as a % of salary is therefore: Depending on Unilevers performance, Executive Directors CEO 180% may receive up to 1.5 x the number the shares they have Other Executive Directors 135% purchased provided that they keep them for the duration of the four-year period.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES Executive Directors are able to choose whether they invest in The Committee sets performance measures for each MCIP matching PLC or NV shares or a 50 50 mix.
Executive Directors receive a share award.
These will be tested over the four financial years starting corresponding number of performance-related shares matching with that following the one to which the bonus relates.
Matching shares will be awarded in the same form as MCIP performance measures are currently Underlying Sales Growth, the investment shares i. e. in PLC or NV shares or a 50 50 mix.
Core Earnings Per Share, Return On Invested Capital, and the Unilever Ultimate remedy malus and claw-back provisions apply see sustainability progress index.
Committee retains the discretion to change these measures and or weighting for future grants, based on strategic priorities for Unilever at that time.
The Committee will ensure that the targets set are appropriately stretching for the delivery of threshold, target and maximum performance.
SUPPORTING INFORMATION The performance measures for the MCIP to be granted in 2017 have been amended to reflect Unilevers strategic direction.
The MCIP which will operate under a new set of plan rules for which approval will be sought at the 2017 AGMs is now assessed over a fouryear performance period.
The previous MCIP was measured over a three-year performance period.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 55 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN GSIP PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY The GSIP incentivises Executive Directors to achieve Unilevers Target awards of conditional shares under the GSIP each year clearly stated growth ambition by delivering sustained high as a percentage of base salary are limited to: performance and sustainable returns for shareholders over the CEO 200% longer term.
other Executive Directors 150% The vesting range for awards of conditional shares is between 0% OPERATION and 200% of target award.
Accordingly, the maximum award of Awards of shares are normally made annually with vesting shares under the GSIP is as a percentage of base salary at grant : conditional on Unilevers performance against long-term targets over a three-year performance period and the quality of CEO 400% results delivered.
other Executive Directors 300% A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year 31% of the grant level would pay out at threshold performance.
vesting period although shares may be sold to satisfy tax and However, this may be amended at the discretion of the Committee other relevant liabilities as a result of the award vesting.
if the number of companies in the TSR comparator group changes.
Prior to vesting Executive Directors are able to choose whether PERFORMANCE MEASURES they receive any shares that are due to vest in PLC or NV shares The Committee sets three-year performance measures for each or a 50 50 mix.
Ultimate remedy malus and claw-back provisions apply see GSIP performance measures are currently Underlying Sales Growth, details on page 57.
Core Operating Margin, Cumulative Operating Cash Flow and Total Shareholder Return.
The Committee retains the discretion to change these measures and or weighting for future grants, based on strategic priorities for Unilever at that time.
For the three business-focused measures, 25% of awards vest for threshold performance and for maximum performance 200% of the GSIP awards vest.
The TSR measure is measured against the TSR comparator group, comprising 18 other companies 19 including Unilever : 50% vests if Unilever is ranked 10th, 100% vests if Unilever is ranked 7th and 200% of the GSIP award vests if Unilever is ranked 3rd or above.
Further details of the TSR comparator group are set out on page 66.
SUPPORTING INFORMATION The GSIP rules were approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGMs and will expire in May 2017.
The GSIP will subsequently be operated under a new set of plan rules for which approval will be sought at the 2017 AGMs.
The GSIP awards made to the Executive Directors on 13 February 2017 will have a two-year post-vesting holding period beyond the three-year vesting period, making it a five-year plan, and this will also apply to GSIP awards in subsequent years under this Remuneration Policy.
ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE MCIP and GSIP awards granted under the previous Remuneration Policy will continue to operate under the terms of that policy and the relevant plan rules.
Further details of the terms of the awards made are included in the Annual Remuneration Reports for their respective years.
This applies to the GSIP awards granted in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and the MCIP awards granted in 2015 and 2016.
This provision will cease to apply once all of these awards have vested, been exercised or been forfeited as appropriate as per the relevant policy and plan rules.
Additional details are set out below.
56 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CLAW-BACK, ULTIMATE REMEDY, DISCRETION AND FLEXIBILITY Claw-back: The Committee has discretion to reclaim or claw back some or all of the value of awards of performance-related payments to Executive Directors in the event of a significant downward restatement of the financial results of Unilever.
This includes the annual bonus together with any awards that have been made and or vested shares under the GSIP and the MCIP awards under both this Remuneration Policy and the previous remuneration policy.
This claw-back may be effected up to two years from vesting by reducing outstanding awards or requiring the return of the net value of vested awards to Unilever.
Ultimate remedy malus: Grants under the GSIP and MCIP under both this Remuneration Policy and the previous Remuneration Policy are subject to ultimate remedy.
Upon vesting of an award, the Committee shall have the discretionary power to adjust the value of the award if the award, in the Committees opinion taking all circumstances into account, produces an unfair result.
In exercising this discretion, the Committee may take into account Unilevers performance against non-financial measures.
The Committee may apply malus to reduce a GSIP or MCIP award granted under this Remuneration Policy or to GSIP or MCIP awards granted from 2015 under the previous Remuneration Policy, or determine that any such award will not vest or only vest in part in the event of a significant downward restatement of the financial results of Unilever, gross misconduct or gross negligence, material breach of Unilevers Code of Business Principles or any of the Unilever Code Policies, breach of restrictive covenants by which the individual has agreed to be bound, or conduct by the individual which results in significant losses or serious reputation damage to Unilever.
The annual bonus will also be subject to malus on the same grounds as apply for MCIP awards.
For future awards under the GSIP and MCIP, the Committee may change the terms of a performance measure or target in accordance with its terms or if anything happens which causes the Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate to do so, and may adjust the number or class of shares subject to awards if certain corporate events e. g. rights issues occur.
For legacy awards under the MCIP and GSIP, the Committee may change the terms of a performance measure or target during the performance period to take into account any structural changes relating to the shares or the Group e. g. rights issues in accordance with established market practice.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any relevant discretions notwithstanding that they are not in line with this Remuneration Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed before this Remuneration Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of Unilever N. V. or PLC and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of Unilever N. V. or PLC.
For these purposes, payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS - OUR EMPHASIS ON PERFORMANCE-RELATED PAY It is Unilevers policy that the total remuneration package for Executive Directors should be competitive with other global companies and that a significant proportion should be performance-related.
For the remuneration scenarios below, the maximum and target pay opportunities have been chosen to be consistent with the current levels for Executive Directors.
In reviewing the appropriate level of pay opportunity for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers internal and external comparators.
Although pay is not driven by benchmarking, the Committee is aware that pay needs to be within a reasonable range of competitive practice.
The Committee notes that base salary and fixed allowance and total target pay for the Executive Directors is between median and lower quartile for the benchmark group used by the Committee see page 53.
The Committee typically reviews, on at least an annual basis, the impact of different performance scenarios on the potential reward opportunity and payouts to be received by Executive Directors and the alignment of these with the returns that might be received by shareholders.
The Committee believes that the level of remuneration that can be delivered in the various scenarios is appropriate for the level of performance delivered and the value that would be delivered to shareholders.
The charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors in the first year of the policy under three assumed performance scenarios: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 57 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DETAILS OF FIXED ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION FOR CEO AND CFO AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR SCENARIO CHARTS Assumptions as follows for actual Executive Director pay details please see Implementation Report below : FIXED REMUNERATION Base salary for CEO 1,010,000.
FIXED PAY AND BENEFITS Base salary for CFO effective from 1 May 2017 656,250.
Fixed allowance 250,000 for CEO and 200,000 for CFO.
Benefits assumed to be 447,000 for CEO and 19,000 for CFO in line with 2016.
No bonus payout and no vesting under the MCIP or the GSIP.
VARIABLE REMUNERATION BELOW THRESHOLD Target payout of the annual bonus 120% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of ON TARGET base salary for the CFO.
Target vesting under the MCIP 1 x matching shares of the target 2017 annual bonus for CEO and CFO.
Target vesting under the GSIP 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% of base salary for the CFO.
Scenarios assume 60% of the gross annual bonus is invested.
Maximum payout of the annual bonus 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% MAXIMUM of base salary for the CFO.
Maximum vesting under the MCIP 1.5 x matching of the maximum 2017 annual bonus for CEO and CFO.
Maximum vesting under the GSIP 400% of 2016 base salary for the CEO and 300% of 2016 base salary for the CFO.
Dividends, dividend equivalents and share price movements are ignored for the NOTES TO purposes of the illustrations above.
VARIABLE REMUNERATION LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS For the duration of this Remuneration Policy, entitlements arising before the adoption of this Remuneration Policy will continue to be honoured in line with the approved remuneration policy under which they were granted, or their contractual terms.
The last award under the legacy MCIP was made on 11 February 2016, relating to the annual bonus earned in 2015, which will vest on 11 February 2018.
The last award under the GSIP rules approved at the 2007 AGMs was made on 13 February 2017 and will vest on 13 February 2020.
Further details of these awards can be found within the existing remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGMs and included within the 2013 and subsequent Annual Report and Accounts.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND THE LINK TO STRATEGY Performance measures are selected to align with Unilevers short-term performance targets and long-term business strategy objectives.
Unilevers primary business objective is to create value in a sustainable way.
Performance measures focus management on the delivery of a combination of top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profit growth that Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
The measures chosen for the incentives will support the delivery of this objective, with distinct measures for each of the annual and longer-term incentive programmes.
For the annual incentive, we continue to have a balanced set of performance measures in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow.
Performance measures for our long-term incentive relate to the key objectives driving long-term value creation for investors: growth in the form of USG is fundamental to our model: core earnings per share EPS gives clear line of sight to share price via the Price Earnings multiple: sustainability USLP is at the heart of our strategy for long-term value creation: and return on invested capital ROIC is an important measure of value creation, and an appropriate measure for ULE members given their decision-making responsibility regarding merger and acquisition activity.
In 2017 there will be no change to the performance measures used for GSIP.
For 2018, if the GSIP is maintained, it is intended that a consistent set of performance measures will be used across the MCIP and GSIP.
58 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The following sets out the performance measures for shortand long-term executive incentive plans to be awarded in 2017, as well as the business performance and the behaviours that they drive.
APPROACH TO TARGET SETTING INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE MEASURE LINK TO STRATEGY Underlying sales growth USG at constant rates Clear, simple and well understood measure supporting the SHORT-TERM: achievement of Unilevers growth ambition ANNUAL BONUS Free cash flow FCF at constant rates Provides clear focus on the achievement of Unilevers cash generation ambition and on cost reduction Core operating margin improvement COM Underlines the importance of achieving increasingly at current rates profitable growth Underlying sales growth CAGR USG Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver LONG-TERM: at constant rates sustainable growth over the longer term MCIP Core earnings per share Core EPS at current Provides focus on a measure which is widely understood and applied externally by investors in valuing companies rates Supports disciplined investment of capital within the Return on invested capital ROIC business and discourages acquisitions with low returns and long paybacks an especially relevant measure for members of the ULE who make investment decisions The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP helps to secure Unilever sustainability progress index USLP long-term value creation by decoupling our growth from our environmental impact, while increasing our positive social impact.
To avoid over-focus on any one element of the USLP, the progress index is an assessment made by the Committee taking into account progress towards the targets in our reported USLP scorecard USG at constant rates Supports the achievement of Unilevers ambition to deliver LONG-TERM: sustainable growth over the longer term GSIP COM at current rates Underlines the importance of achieving sustainable profitable growth over the longer term Cumulative operating cash flow Provides clear focus on the achievement of Unilevers cash generation ambition and on cost reduction Relative total shareholder return TSR Provides a relative ranking of share price growth and dividend compared with a set of peer companies The Committee sets performance targets for incentive plans, taking into account internal budgets, business priorities and external forecasts so that the targets are sufficiently stretching.
Good performance results in target payout while maximum payout is only achieved for delivering exceptional performance.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 59 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIFFERENCES IN PAY POLICY GENERALLY As the Chairmans letter sets out, the reward arrangements for the ULE excluding the Executive Directors and Top 500 managers have been significantly simplified by consolidating fixed pay into a single figure and discontinuing the GSIP.
Pay for this population effective from mid-2017 will comprise three elements: fixed pay: annual bonus: and MCIP.
To achieve a genuinely longer-term performance horizon of five years, we will encourage our managers to invest a proportion of their annual bonus after tax in Unilever shares through a revised longer-term version of Unilevers MCIP, for which approval will be sought at the 2017 AGMs.
The operation of this new MCIP is the same for the Executive Directors, except that the current cap of 150% will continue to apply to the vesting of Executive Directors MCIP matching shares.
For other participants the MCIP matching shares may vest up to 200%, based upon Unilevers performance.
For the ULE excluding Executive Directors and our Top 500 managers this new MCIP is the only long term incentive.
These individuals have received increases in fixed pay and bonus opportunity and they can invest up to 100% of their gross annual bonus into MCIP.
The new remuneration structure has been structured in a way to maintain broadly the same levels of pay for target performance, if they continue to invest 60% of their gross annual bonus in Unilever shares through the MCIP.
We plan to apply the principles driving these proposals to the way we pay all of our 15,000 managers, not just our senior leaders.
As a responsible employer with around 169,000 people in 109 countries as at year end, we are also very mindful of how we pay our many nonmanagement staff.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle - that reward should support our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing individuals without paying more than is necessary.
Unilever is a global organisation with employees at a number of different levels of seniority and in a number of different countries and, while this principle underpins all reward arrangements, the way it is implemented varies by geography and level.
In principle, all our managers participate in the same Unilever annual bonus scheme with the same performance measures based on Unilevers overall performance.
All middle and senior management are invited to participate in the MCIP.
All other employees will have the opportunity to participate in the global buy 3 get 1 free employee share plan called SHARES.
Through these initiatives we will encourage all our employees fully to adopt an owners mindset with the goal of achieving our growth ambition, so they can continuously re-invest and share in the future long-term success of Unilever.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP When determining the pay of Executive Directors, the Committee considers the pay arrangements for other employees in the Group, including considering the average global pay review budget for the management population, to ensure that remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors remain reasonable.
Unilever employs around 169,000 people in 109 countries as at year end and, given this geographic spread and other factors, the Committee did not consider that it was appropriate to consult employees on the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors during the year.
However, Unilever takes the views of its employees seriously and on an ongoing basis we operate the Rate-My-Reward survey to gauge the views of employees on the different parts of their reward package.
The Committee has taken note of the Fair Compensation Unilever Framework https: www.
com sustainable-living    fair-compensation and the advanced living wage awareness together with responsible supplier policies within the Group.
Over the last three years we have also offered the award-winning SHARES plan to our nonmanagement staff around the world.
We will continue to advance these initiatives over the year ahead and beyond to enhance the livelihoods of all our employees.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee takes the views of shareholders seriously.
In a year when we are proposing to introduce this new Remuneration Policy shareholders have been consulted extensively and their views have been influential in shaping this Remuneration Policy.
We maintain an open and regular dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters, including consulting with our largest shareholders, when we are considering making material changes to our Remuneration Policy.
As such we will be in contact with our largest shareholders during 2017 to determine how best to structure remuneration for the Executive Directors for 2018 and beyond.
MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT The remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever by the later of 2018 or five years from the date of appointment to align their interests with those of Unilevers long-term shareholders.
The current requirement is 5 x base salary for the CEO and 4 x base salary for the CFO.
Upon leaving Unilever, all Executive Directors will be required to maintain at least 100% of their minimum shareholding requirement for one year after leaving, and at least 50% for two years after leaving.
If the leaver has not yet met their shareholding requirements on departure they will be required to retain the shares they do own up to these limits.
60 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW HIRES AREA POLICY AND OPERATION The Committee will pay new Executive Directors in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy and all its Overall elements as set out herein above.
The terms of service contracts will not overall be more generous than those of the current CEO and CFO summarised below.
The ongoing annual remuneration arrangements for new Executive Directors will therefore comprise salary, fixed allowance, benefits, annual bonus, MCIP and GSIP.
In addition, the recruitment policy below permits the Committee to take the following actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of Unilever and therefore shareholders.
For internal promotions, any variable remuneration element awarded in respect of a prior role may be paid out according to its original terms.
Salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate based on their skills, experience and current Base salary remuneration.
Fixed allowance provision would be in line with the approved normal Remuneration Policy and for a new external hire Fixed allowance may be consolidated into salary.
Benefits provision would be in line with the approved normal Remuneration Policy.
Where appropriate the Executive Benefits Director may also receive relocation benefits or other benefits reflective of normal market practice in the territory in which the Executive Director is employed.
In addition, the Committee may agree that Unilever will pay certain allowances linked to repatriation on termination of employment.
Incentive awards would be made under the annual bonus, MCIP and GSIP in line with the normal policy.
Incentive awards In addition to normal incentive awards, additional awards may be made to align the joiner as quickly as possible with Transition awards Unilevers long-term goals, and to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their current employer.
and buyout awards Transition awards In the event that we were to appoint a new Executive Director, the Committees preferred approach would be to offer a transition award in Unilever shares to immediately align the new Executive Director with the long-term goals of the business and to recognise that no other long-term incentive will be vesting in their first years of employment at Unilever.
The transition award permits the joiner to potentially receive matching awards under the MCIP and GSIP awards as if they had invested a proportion of their target bonus into the in-flight MCIP cycles and had been made awards in previous GSIP cycles that started before they joined Unilever.
Accordingly, the transition award may comprise two elements.
The first can be worth up to 240% 4 x 60% of the new Executive Directors initial target annual bonus and vests 25% per year thereafter at the actual performance multiplier 0 x to 1.5 x for the MCIP cycle ending in the corresponding year.
The second element of the transition award may be worth up to 200% of the new Executive Directors initial salary and vests 50% per year thereafter at the actual performance multiplier 0 x to 2 x for the GSIP cycle ending in the corresponding year.
Within these limits the Committee will determine the size of the transition award based on individual circumstances.
To be eligible for the transition award element related to MCIP i. e 4 x 60% of target bonus the Executive Director must invest no less than a corresponding percentage i. e. 60% of actual annual bonus into new cycles of MCIP starting in each of the years that the transition award vests.
The final vesting value of the transition award will be scaled back if the corresponding level of investment the new Executive Director has made into the MCIP in that year is lower than the initial commitment.
If the Executive Director elects to make a higher investment in new MCIP cycles than the initial commitment, the transition award will not be increased.
A transition award would only be offered if required to compensate an Executive Director for awards foregone.
If an Executive Director joins without the need to compensate for awards foregone, a transition award would not be provided.
Buyout awards The Committees preference is to use transition awards rather than buyout awards.
However, as we need to be able to source the best talent from any market, instead of the approach set out above the Committee may elect to compensate Executive Directors hired from outside for any awards they lose by leaving previous employers broadly on a like-for-like basis although a transition award may form part of this.
Incoming Executive Directors will be required to retain all shares vesting from any share awards until their minimum shareholding requirements have been met in full.
If a buyout award is required, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing, and value of awards forgone in any replacement awards.
Awards may be made in cash, shares or any other method as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Where possible, share awards will be replaced with share awards.
Where performance measures applied to the forfeited awards, performance measures will be applied to the replacement award or the award size will be discounted accordingly.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buyout the Committee would also take into account the value of the other elements of the new remuneration package.
The Committee would aim to minimise the cost to Unilever, although buyout awards are not subject to a formal maximum.
Any awards would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 61 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SERVICE CONTRACTS POLICY IN RELATION TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS IN THE EVENT OF LOSS OF OFFICE Current Executive Directors service contracts are terminable upon notice as follows: SERVICE 12 months notice from Unilever: and CONTRACTS & 6 months notice from the Executive Director.
NOTICE PERIOD Starting dates of the service contracts for the current CEO and CFO: CEO: 1 October 2008 signed on 7 October 2008 : and CFO: 1 October 2015 signed on 16 December 2015.
Service contracts are available to shareholders to view at the AGMs or on request from the Group Secretary.
A payment in lieu of notice can be made, to the value of no more than 12 months base salary, fixed allowance and other TERMINATION benefits unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given the PAYMENTS circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
Executive Directors may, at the discretion of the Boards, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial year OTHER in which they cease employment.
Such annual bonus will be determined by the Committee taking into account time in ELEMENTS employment and performance.
Treatment of share awards as set out below.
Any outstanding all-employee share arrangements will be treated in accordance with HMRC-approved terms.
Other payments, such as legal or other professional fees, repatriation or relocation costs and or outplacement fees, may be paid if it is considered appropriate.
62 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 LEAVER PROVISIONS IN PLAN RULES GOOD LEAVERS AS LEAVERS IN CHANGE OF CONTROL DETERMINED BY THE COMMITTEE OTHER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CIRCUMSTANCES PLAN RULES Investment shares are not impacted Investment shares Investment shares may normally be disposed of in INVESTMENT by termination although they may be are not impacted connection with a change of control without causing SHARES MCIP transferred to the personal representative by termination.
the corresponding matching shares to lapse.
of the Executive Director in the event Alternatively, participants may be required to of his or her death without causing the exchange the investment shares for equivalent shares corresponding matching shares to lapse.
Awards will normally vest following the Awards will In accordance with Dutch law, matching shares and MATCHING end of the original performance period, normally lapse performance shares are shares that are obtained as SHARES MCIP, taking into account performance and upon termination.
part of the Executive Directors remuneration.
PERFORMANCE unless the Boards on the proposal of Therefore their value is frozen for a period of four SHARES GSIP the Committee determine otherwise weeks before an announcement of a public offer and pro-rated for time in employment.
four weeks after the conclusion of a public offer.
Under current Dutch law requirements, any increase Alternatively, the Boards may determine in value in this period has to be reclaimed by Unilever that awards shall vest upon termination from the Executive Director upon retirement or sale of based on performance at that time these shares, if at that time the value of the shares is and pro-rated for time in employment higher than the value four weeks before the unless the Boards on the proposal of announcement of the public offer.
If the law changes, the Committee determine otherwise.
Unilever will seek to comply with any new Dutch law If a director dies, awards will vest at requirements that may apply from time to time.
the time of death at the target level of Awards will vest based on performance at the time vesting pro-rated for time in employment of the change of control and the Boards, on the if the director had previously left as a proposal of the Committee, have the discretion to good leaver.
Alternatively, participants may be required to exchange the awards for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
An Executive Director will usually be treated as a good leaver if he or she leaves due to ill-health, injury or disability, retirement with Unilevers agreement or redundancy.
The Boards may decide to treat an Executive Director who leaves in other circumstances as a good leaver.
An Executive Director will not be treated as a good leaver if he or she chooses to leave for another job elsewhere unless the Boards determine otherwise, if he or she is summarily dismissed or leaves because of concerns about performance.
In deciding whether or not to treat an Executive Director as a good leaver, the Boards will have regard to his or her performance in the role.
If Unilever is affected by a demerger, special distribution or other transaction which may affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow matching shares under the current and legacy MCIP and performance shares under the GSIP to vest early over such number of shares as it shall determine to the extent any performance measures have been met and may be pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting at the Committees discretion.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 63 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS KEY ASPECTS OF UNILEVERS 2017 FEE POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees from Unilever N. V. and PLC.
The Boards determine Non-Executive Director APPROACH TO fee levels within total annual limits as approved by shareholders as specified in PLCs Articles, this is currently PLC SETTING FEES 2,000,000 or its equivalent in any other currency based upon such foreign currency exchange rates as the Committee shall determine, and NV 3,000,000.
Unilevers policy is to set fees at a level which is sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high-class talent of the calibre required to direct the strategy of the business.
They are set taking into account: Unilevers Group-wide reward philosophy: the commitment and contribution expected by the Group: and fee levels paid in other global non-financial services companies based in Europe.
Unilever applies a modular fee structure for Non-Executive Directors to ensure we fairly reflect the roles and OPERATION responsibilities of Committee membership and Chairmanship.
Our basic philosophy is to pay the Chairman an allinclusive fee.
Other Board members receive a basic fee and additional fees for being Vice-Chair, chairing or membership of various committees.
The fees are currently split 50 50 between PLC in sterling and NV in euros.
The Boards may decide to pay fees in any other currency based on such foreign exchange rates as the Boards shall determine, provided total Non-Executive Director fees stay within the annual limits as approved by shareholders from time to time.
The current 2017 fee structure can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 73.
The fee structure may vary from year to year within the terms of this Remuneration Policy.
Fees are normally reviewed annually but may be reviewed less frequently.
Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors where appropriate, to reflect any additional time commitment or duties.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal shareholding of at least 100% of their total annual fees OTHER ITEMS over the five years from appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
All reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by Non-Executive Directors in the course of performing their duties are considered to be business expenses and are reimbursed together with any tax payable.
Non-Executive Directors also receive expenses relating to the attendance of the Directors spouse or partner, when they are invited by Unilever.
Other benefits or additional payments may be provided in the future if, in the view of the Boards, this is considered appropriate.
Such benefits and or payments would be within the total annual limits as approved by shareholders as described above.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HIRES In the event of hiring a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy as set out herein above.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment which each Non-Executive Director signed upon appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for a one-year term, subject to satisfactory performance, re-nomination at the discretion of the Boards on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and re-election at forthcoming annual shareholder meetings.
It is Unilevers expectation that Non-Executive Directors serve for a minimum of three years.
The letters of appointment allow for Unilever to terminate a Non-Executive Directors appointment in cases of gross misconduct, bankruptcy or where the Non-Executive Director is prevented from occupying such a position by law.
The letters do not contain provision for notice periods or compensation if the Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminated by Unilever.
Non-Executive Directors may terminate their engagement upon three months notice.
Except in exceptional circumstances, the Boards will not propose Non-Executive Directors for re-nomination when nine years have elapsed since the date of their appointment.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection on request from the Group Secretary.
In considering appointments to the Boards, the Directors and Unilever give due consideration to the time commitment required to fulfil the role appropriately.
64 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following sets out how Unilevers existing Remuneration Policy which is available on our website see www.
com ara2015 downloads was implemented in 2016, and how our new Remuneration Policy set out on pages 52 to 64 will be implemented if it receives shareholder approval at the 2017 AGMs.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2017 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS If approved by shareholders, Unilevers new Remuneration Policy will be implemented with effect from the 2017 AGMs as set out below.
If the new Remuneration Policy is not approved, Unilevers existing Remuneration Policy will continue to apply.
ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION ELEMENTS OF AT A GLANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION Salary effective from 1 May 2017: No salary increase is to be awarded to the CEO during 2017.
The Committee notes BASE SALARY CEO: 1,010,000 that the CEOs salary continues to be below competitive benchmarks compared to unchanged from 2016 similar-sized UK and European companies, but that he has consistently refused a CFO: 656,250 salary increase over recent years.
The CFO was recently appointed to the Board and has performed strongly in role since appointment.
The Committee has therefore determined, in line with our Remuneration Policy, to award the CFO a salary increase of 5% that reflects his strong performance since appointment and development in role.
This is above the average increase awarded to the broader employee population, but after careful consideration is considered appropriate by the Committee.
In particular, the Committee notes that the CFO was appointed with a salary significantly below that of his predecessor, and that, even with this increase, the CFOs salary is still below the lower quartile of the market when assessed against our benchmarking peer group as disclosed on page 53.
The Committee will continue to review the CFOs salary in view of his performance and development in role, and may make salary increases that exceed that of the wider workforce, although any further salary increases awarded will not exceed 15% on aggregate over the course of this Remuneration Policy.
Fixed allowance for 2017: n a FIXED CEO: 250,000 ALLOWANCE unchanged from 2016 CFO: 200,000 unchanged from 2016 Implemented in line with the 2017 n a OTHER BENEFIT Remuneration Policy.
ENTITLEMENTS Implemented in line with the 2017 For 2017, the Business Performance Multiplier will be based on the ANNUAL BONUS Remuneration Policy.
following metrics: Target annual bonus of 120% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary for the CFO.
Business Performance Multiplier of between 0% and 150% based on achievement against business targets over the year.
Personal Performance Multiplier A 0% multiplier will be applied for threshold performance, and up to 150% of between 0% and 150% based multiplier for maximum performance.
Performance target ranges are considered on personal performance of to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in full with the corresponding the Executive Director.
performance outcomes retrospectively following the end of the relevant Maximum annual bonus is 200% performance year.
of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 65 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ELEMENTS OF AT A GLANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION Implemented in line with the 2014 Performance conditions are assessed over a three-year period.
The performance GSIP 2017 Remuneration Policy.
conditions and target ranges for 2017 awards will be as follows: AWARDS GSIP award made on 13 February 2017 vesting 13 February 2020.
Target award 200% of base salary for the CEO salary 1,010,000 and 150% of base salary for the CFO salary 625,000.
Maximum vesting of 200% of initial award so maximum vesting of 400% of base salary for the CEO 4,040,000, and 300% of base salary for the CFO 1,875,000.
In addition, a two-year postvesting holding period will apply to this award beyond the three-year vesting period for For the three business-focused performance conditions, 25% of target awards the CEO and CFO.
vest for achieving threshold performance, 100% for target and 200% for maximum performance with straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum.
For the TSR measure, 50% of the target award vests for threshold performance at 10th place, 100% at 7th place, and 200% vests at 3rd place or above with straighta line vesting occurring between these points.
Implemented in line with the 2017 Performance conditions are assessed over a four-year period.
The performance NEW MCIP Remuneration Policy.
conditions and target ranges for 2017 awards under the new MCIP will be as follows: It is intended to make initial awards under the MCIP in May 2017.
Paul Polman elected to invest the value of 60% 1,119,888 of his 2016 annual bonus into the MCIP upon the plans approval at the 2017 AGMs.
Graeme Pitkethly elected to invest the value of 60% 453,750 of his 2016 annual bonus in MCIP investment shares upon the plans approval at the 2017 AGMs.
Matching shares are awarded based on performance up to a maximum of 1.5 x Threshold results in no matching shares being awarded, target performance results matching shares.
in an award of 1 x matching shares, up to a maximum award of 1.5 x matching shares Therefore the maximum value for Executive Directors, with straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum from the matching shares for the although the maximum for other participants is 2 x matching CEO would be 1,679,832 and for the CFO would be 680,625.
Participants are required to hold all their own investment shares and remain employed by Unilever for the duration.
It is the Committees intention that management should be assessed against the progress they make on the USLP as a whole, rather than selected components of it.
Unilever already publishes periodic progress reports for the USLP on our website and so our shareholders are able to monitor performance against USLP goals.
At the end of the MCIP performance period, the Committee will disclose a full narrative setting out the performance achieved and the corresponding outcome that the Committee determines for the Sustainability Progress Index.
a For the relative TSR measure, Unilevers TSR is measured against a comparator group of other consumer goods companies.
TSR measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income assuming dividends are reinvested.
The TSR results are measured on a common currency basis to better reflect the shareholder experience.
The current TSR peer group consists of 18 companies 19 including Unilever as follows: Avon Colgate-Palmolive Henkel LOral Reckitt Benckiser Beiersdorf Danone Kao Nestl Shiseido Campbell Soup General Mills Kelloggs PepsiCo Coca-Cola Este Lauder Kimberly-Clark Procter & Gamble The Committee may change the TSR vesting levels set out above if the number of companies in the TSR comparator group changes e. g. via M&A activity etc.
66 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ULTIMATE REMEDY MALUS AND CLAWBACK Grants under the GSIP and MCIP are subject to ultimate remedy as explained in the 2017 Remuneration Policy.
Malus and clawback apply to all performance-related payments as explained in the 2017 Remuneration Policy.
In 2016, the Committee did not reclaim or claw back any of the value of awards of performance-related payments to Executive Directors.
SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Executive Directors, for the years 2015 and 2016.
Paul Polman Graeme Pitkethly Jean-Marc Hut CEO UK CFO UK former CFO UK 000 000 000 b b c c 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 A Base salary 1,239 1,392 511 - - 738 B Fixed allowances and other benefits 855 901 185 - - 273 C Annual bonus 2,289 2,573 928 - - 812 D MCIP matching shares a a 1,240 1,933 153 - - 375 d required by UK law Long-term incentives E GSIP performance shares a a 2,603 3,336 305 - - 1,783 d required by UK law Long-term incentives sub-total 3,843 5,269 458 - - 2,158 F Conditional supplemental pension 144 161 - - - - Total remuneration paid required by UK law A B C D E F 8,370 10,296 2,082 - - 3,981 G Share awards required by Dutch law 3,170 3,274 674 - - 573 Total remuneration paid required by Dutch law A B C F G 7,697 8,301 2,298 - - 2,396 a Amount restated using actual share price s on relevant dates rather than three-month average share price to 31 December 2015 which was used for the 2015 report.
b The figures included relate to amounts paid or payable to Graeme Pitkethly for his services from 21 April 2016 for the remainder of the year, being the date on which he was appointed as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC.
Although Graeme Pitkethly assumed the role of CFO and became a member of the ULE on 1 October 2015, he did not serve as an Executive Director during that year, and therefore his 2015 remuneration is not disclosed herein.
c The figures included relate to amounts paid to Jean-Marc Hut for his services between 1 January and 1 October 2015, being the date on which he ceased to be CFO and an Executive Director of Unilever.
d Graeme Pitkethlys GSIP and MCIP values in the above single figure table for 2016 include GSIP performance shares and MCIP matching shares previously granted to him in 2014, before his appointment as an Executive Director.
Where relevant, amounts for 2016 have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over 2016 1 0.8152, excluding amounts in respect of MCIP and GSIP which have been translated into euros using the exchange rate at vesting date of 14 February 2017 1 0.8494.
Amounts for 2015 have been translated into euros using the average exchange rate over 2015 1 0.7254, excluding amounts in respect of MCIP and GSIP which have been translated into euros using the exchange rate at vesting date of 18 February 2016 1 0.7763.
We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees.
ELEMENTS OF SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION 2016 A BASE SALARY AUDITED Salary set in sterling and paid in 2016: CEO 1,010,000.
CFO 416,667 amount paid to Graeme Pitkethly for his services from 21 April 2016, being the date on which he was appointed as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC: Graeme Pitkethlys annual salary is 625,000.
B FIXED ALLOWANCE AND OTHER BENEFITS AUDITED For 2016 this comprises: Paul Polman Graeme Pitkethly CEO UK CFO UK a a b 2016 2016 Fixed allowance 250,000 133,333 Medical insurance cover and actual tax return preparation costs 29,390 14,087 Provision of death-in-service benefits and administration 11,011 3,370 Payment to protect against difference between employee social security obligations 406,247 - in country of residence versus UK Total 696,648 150,790 a The numbers in this table are quoted in sterling and translated into euros for the single figure of remuneration table above using the average exchange rate over 2016 of 1 0.8152. b The figures included relate to amounts paid or payable to Graeme Pitkethly for his services from 21 April 2016 for the remainder of the year, being the date on which he was elected at the AGMs as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 67 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED C ANNUAL BONUS AUDITED Annual bonus 2016 actual outcomes CEO 1,866,480 which is 92.5% of maximum, 185% of base salary.
CFO 756,250 which is 80.7% of maximum, 121% of base salary.
This includes cash and the portion of annual bonus that Executive Directors have indicated will be re-invested in shares under the MCIP.
Performance against targets: At the beginning of the year, the Committee set stretching financial performance targets which management delivered against during the course of the year.
In 2016 we achieved underlying sales growth of 3.7%, ahead of our markets, driven by a good step-up in price growth with balanced volume.
Improvement in core operating margin compared with 2015 was 0.5 percentage points driven by savings, improved product mix and operational leverage.
All categories delivered progress against their strategic priorities.
For the annual bonus calculations, free cash flow FCF is calculated on a constant basis at 4.7 billion equivalent to the reported 4.8 billion at current rates, driven by the increase in core operating profit and improvement in working capital, in line with the strong delivery in 2015.
The 2016 results represent good all-round performance despite difficult conditions.
The consistent delivery of top-line and bottom-line growth has been established over the last eight years.
Operating margin performance, despite significant restructuring spend, was well above target with cash flow and underlying sales growth more in line with target.
Hence, the Committee has decided to award a performance factor of 110% versus target.
Although purely mathematically the bonus would have been 121%, management recommended the adjustment slightly downwards in light of overall quality of results as we ended the year with slower growth.
The Committee considered this to be a fair representation of the performance delivery by the executive team during 2016.
Paul Polman In determining bonus outcomes for Paul Polman, the Committee also considered his very strong personal performance.
Again in 2016, Paul demonstrated very firm leadership, both internally and externally.
He received significant recognition for his work in leading Unilever and in helping to promote sustainable and responsible business models around the world.
He was awarded the Chevalier fide la Legion dHonneur, the highest decoration in France, and the Public Service Star from the Singapore Government.
Despite increasingly difficult market conditions in 2016, Unilever maintained its consistent track record of delivering underlying sales growth ahead of its markets and growth in core operating margin together with strong free cash flow.
In 2016 Paul also introduced and pushed forward a number of major transformation initiatives for Unilever notably Connected 4 Growth C4G which are already helping to strengthen the company and will enable it to meet the demands of a fast-changing environment with even greater speed, agility and confidence.
In 2016 Paul also oversaw a number of strategic acquisitions that will help to bolster Unilevers position in some fast-growing areas of the market.
As a consequence of the review of his personal performance, Paul Polman was awarded a personal performance multiplier of 140%.
This resulted in his receiving a bonus of 185% of his base salary, calculated as follows: Target bonus: 120% of Unilevers 2016 Personal performance 1,866,480 x x base salary 1,212,000 performance ratio 110% multiplier 140% 185% of base salary Graeme Pitkethly In determining bonus outcomes for Graeme Pitkethly, the Committee considered his personal performance and leadership, including the management of Unilevers financial risk exposure and the continuing drive for enterprise-wide efficiencies.
It also took account of his strong focus as CFO on performance management and the extent to which this was reflected in Unilevers positive business results in 2016.
Graeme also played an important role in the successful launch of the C4G major organisational re-design, as well as driving the implementation of the ambitious Zero-Based Budgeting ZBB programme across the Group, which is already generating savings for reinvestment within Unilever and has the potential to restructure Unilevers cost base over the next two years.
Graeme has also pushed to instil enhanced levels of investment discipline and cash delivery.
As a consequence of that review, Graeme was awarded a personal performance multiplier of 110%.
This resulted in his receiving a bonus of 121% of his base salary, calculated as follows: Target bonus: 100% of Unilevers 2016 Personal performance 756,250 x x base salary 625,000 performance ratio 110% multiplier 110% 121% of base salary 68 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 D MCIP UK LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED 2016 OUTCOMES This includes MCIP matching shares granted on 14 February 2014 based on the percentage of 2013 bonus that Paul Polman and Graeme Pitkethly had invested in Unilever shares, as well as performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2016 which vested on 14 February 2017.
Further details of the performance measures are disclosed below in note E. The values included in the single figure table for 2016 are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 14 February 2014 including additional shares in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2016 by the level of vesting 70% of target award for the CEO and 84% of target award for the CFO and the share prices on the date of vesting NV 38.81 and PLC 32.86.
The CFOs award vested at a different level than the CEOs award as it relates to an award granted in 2014 before his appointment as an Executive Director.
Performance measures and performance against them are as set out in the table below although the weightings of the measures were different for participants below Board level, so the weightings of each measure in the award that vested for the CFO are Underlying Sales Growth at 30%, Core Operating Margin Improvement at 30%, Cumulative Operating Cash Flow at 30% and TSR at 10%.
These have been translated into euros using the exchange rate on the date of vesting 1 0.8494.
E GSIP UK LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED 2016 OUTCOMES This includes GSIP performance shares granted on 14 February 2014, based on performance in the three-year period to 31 December 2016, which vested on 14 February 2017.
The values included in the single figure table for 2016 are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 14 February 2014 including additional shares in respect of accrued dividends through to 31 December 2016 by the level of vesting 70% of target award for the CEO and 84% of target award for the CFO and the share price on the date of vesting NV 38.81 and PLC 32.86.
The CFOs award vested at a different level than the CEOs award as it relates to an award granted in 2014 before his appointment as an Executive Director with the performance measures and weighting as set out under heading D above.
Performance against targets: a For details of comparator group please see page 66.
Underlying sales growth during this period was 3.6% per year and core operating margin improvement over the period was an average of 0.4 percentage points per year, demonstrating managements continued drive for consistent topand bottom-line growth.
Unilever also generated strong operating cash in the period, with cumulative operating cash flow of 18.1 billion.
Total shareholder return TSR over this three-year period was in the middle third of the peer group just below the threshold for minimum vesting and, as such, no part of the GSIP and MCIP awards related to TSR will vest.
On the basis of this performance, the Committee determined that the GSIP and MCIP awards to the end of 2016 will vest at 70% of initial award levels ie 35% of maximum for GSIP and 47% of maximum for MCIP which is capped at 150% for the Executive Directors.
F CONDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION AUDITED CEO Paul Polman : Conditional supplemental pension provision agreed with Paul Polman on hiring, which will be paid on his retirement or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
G SHARE INCENTIVES DUTCH LAW REQUIREMENT AUDITED As per the Dutch requirements, these costs are non-cash costs and relate to the expenses recognised for the period following IFRS 2.
This is based on share prices on grant dates and a 98% adjustment factor for GSIP shares and MCIP matching shares awarded in 2016, 2015 and 2014.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 69 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN THE YEAR AUDITED PLAN BASIS OF MAXIMUM THRESHOLD PERFORMANCE DETAILS OF PERFORMANCE AWARD FACE VALUE VESTING PERIOD MEASURES OF AWARDS % OF TARGET AWARD Based on the level CEO: Four equally 1 January 2016 Subject to four equally weighted MCIP b of 2015 bonus paid 1,763,984 weighted 31 December 2018 performance measures: Conditional in 2016 invested by long-term matching CFO: the CEO and CFO.
made on The following For the three 11 February numbers of business- 2016 matching shares focused metrics, were awarded on 25% of the target a 11 February 2016 : award vests for CEO: threshold PLC 0 performance.
For the TSR NV 39,318 Participants are required to hold all their own measure, 50% of investment shares and remain employed by CFO: the target award Unilever for the duration.
PLC 4,912 vests for NV 4,912 threshold Maximum vesting performance.
results in 150% of target awards vesting.
The CEO received CEO: As above As above Subject to four equally weighted GSIP b a target award 4,140,739 performance measures: Conditional of 200% of share award CFO: base salary.
made on b 1,921,732 11 February CEO: 2016 PLC 35,115 NV 35,115 The CFO received a target award of 150% of base salary.
CFO: PLC 16,297 NV 16,297 Maximum vesting results in 200% of target awards vesting, which translates to a maximum vesting of 400% of base salary for the CEO and 300% of base salary for the CFO.
a Under MCIP, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they invest in PLC shares or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
Executive Directors receive a corresponding number of performance-related matching shares.
Matching shares will be awarded in the same form as the investment shares i. e. in PLC shares, NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
On 11 February 2016, the CEO invested 60% 1,119,888 and the CFO invested 60% 282,520 of their 2015 bonus in MCIP investment shares.
The CEO elected to invest fully in NV shares.
The CFO elected to receive an equal number of shares in each of PLC and NV.
b The face values included in this table are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted on 11 February 2016 by the share price on that day of PLC 29.05 and NV 36.69 respectively, assuming maximum performance and therefore maximum vesting of 200% for GSIP and 150% for MCIP and then translating into sterling using an average exchange rate over 2016 of 1 0.8152.
70 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHARE INTERESTS UNAUDITED The table below shows the Executive Directors share ownership against the minimum shareholding requirements as at 31 December 2016 and the interest in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2016.
When calculating an Executive Directors personal shareholding the following methodology is used: Base salary at the date of measurement.
Shares in either Unilever PLC or Unilever N. V. or a combination of both will qualify provided they are personally owned by the Executive Director, by a member of his immediate family or by certain corporate bodies, trusts or partnerships as required by law from time to time each a connected person.
Shares purchased under the MCIP from the annual bonus will qualify as from the moment of purchase as these are held in the individuals name and are not subject to further restrictions.
Shares or entitlements to shares that are subject only to the Director remaining in employment will qualify on a net of tax basis.
Shares awarded on a conditional basis by way of the GSIP or MCIP will not qualify until the moment of vesting i. e. once the precise number of shares is fixed after the three-year vesting period, or a four-year vesting period for the MCIP, has elapsed.
The shares will be valued on the date of measurement or, if that outcome fails the personal shareholding test, on the date of acquisition.
The share price for the relevant measurement date will be based on the average closing share prices and the euro sterling US dollar exchange rates from the 60 calendar days prior to the measurement date.
Executive Directors are required to hold shares to the value of 100% of their shareholding requirement for 12 months post cessation of employment at Unilever, and 50% of these shares for 24 months post cessation of employment with Unilever.
All ULE members are required to build a shareholding of 300% of base salary.
This requirement is 150% of base salary for the Top 100 management layer below ULE.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THEIR CONNECTED PERSONS INTERESTS IN SHARES AND SHARE OWNERSHIP AUDITED Share ownership Actual share Shares held as at Shares held as at b 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 guideline as % of Have guidelines ownership as a % base salary as at been met as at of base salary as at a 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 ?
31 December 2016 NV PLC NV PLC CEO: Paul Polman 400 Yes 3,433% 655,307 297,008 824,245 307,239 CFO: Graeme Pitkethly 300 Yes 367% 17,468 27,569 32,189 42,908 a Calculated based on the minimum shareholding requirements and methodology set out above and the base salaries as detailed for the CEO and CFO in section A on page 67. b 1 NV shares are ordinary 0.16 shares and PLC shares are ordinary 3 p shares.
9 During the period between 31 December 2016 and 21 February 2017, the following changes in interests have occurred: Graeme Pitkethly purchased 8 PLC shares under the Unilever PLC ShareBuy Plan: 4 on 10 January 2017 at a share price of 33.50, and a further 4 on 8 February 2017 at a share price of 33.09: and as detailed under headings D and E on page 69, on 14 February 2017: o Paul Polman acquired 31,964 NV shares following the vesting of his 2014 MCIP award, and 67,186 NV shares following the vesting of his 2014 GSIP award, in accordance with his share choice to receive 100% NV shares on the vesting of these awards: and o Graeme Pitkethly acquired 1,964 NV shares and 1,983 PLC shares following the vesting of his 2014 MCIP award, and 3,915 NV shares and 3,952 PLC shares following the vesting of his 2014 GSIP award.
The voting rights of the Directors Executive and Non-Executive and members of the ULE who hold interests in the share capital of NV and PLC are the same as for other holders of the class of shares indicated.
As at 21 February 2017 none of the Directors Executive and Non-Executive or other ULE members shareholdings amounted to more than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share, excluding the holdings of the Leverhulme Trust and the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, which amounted to 5.5%.
All shareholdings in the table above are beneficial.
In addition, 68,531,182 shares are held by the Leverhulme Trust and 2,035,582 shares are held by the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, of which Paul Polman is a director.
INFORMATION IN RELATION TO OUTSTANDING SHARE INCENTIVE AWARDS As at 31 December 2016, Paul Polman held awards over a total of 362,163 shares which are subject to performance conditions, and Graeme Pitkethly held awards over a total of 66,760 shares which are subject to performance conditions.
There are no awards of shares without performance conditions and no awards in the form of options.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 71 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED MANAGEMENT CO-INVESTMENT PLAN AUDITED The following conditional shares vested during 2016 or were outstanding at 31 December 2016 under the MCIP: Balance of Balance of conditional shares Conditional shares conditional shares a at 1 January 2016 awarded in 2016 at 31 December 2016 Dividend Performance shares Additional period accrued shares Share Original 1 January 2016 to Price at during Vested in earned in Price at Shares No.
Awards are all subject to continued employment and maintenance of the underlying investment shares.
Under MCIP, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they invest in PLC or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
On 11 February 2016, Paul Polman and Graeme Pitkethly each invested in the MCIP 60% of their annual bonus earned during 2015 and paid in 2016, and received a corresponding award of matching shares which will vest, subject to performance, on 11 February 2019. b This includes a grant of 22,999 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 18 February 2013 98% of which vested on 18 February 2016, a grant of 41,775 NV shares made on 14 February 2014 70% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 29,128 NV shares made on 13 February 2015 vesting 13 February 2018 and 5,460 NV shares and 2,510 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
c This includes grants that were made to Graeme Pitkethly before his appointment as Executive Director on 21 April 2016, being a grant of 2,852 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 18 February 2013 118% of which vested on 18 February 2016, a grant of 2,139 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 February 2014 84% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 2,215 PLC shares made on 13 February 2015 vesting 13 February 2018 and 410 NV shares and 509 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
d Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2016 and subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying matching shares.
e The 18 February 2013 grant vested on 18 February 2016 at 98% for Paul Polman and 118% for Graeme Pitkethly.
In accordance with Unilevers existing Remuneration Policy www.
com ara2016 downloads, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they receive any shares due to vest under MCIP in PLC or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
Paul Polman elected for share choice and chose to receive his shares in the form of 100% NV shares.
Therefore, upon vesting, his 18 February 2013 PLC award was cancelled and converted and delivered to him as 24,971 NV shares resulting in a total vesting for the 18 February grant of 49,750 NV shares.
Graeme Pitkethly elected to receive his shares in the form of an equal number of shares in each of PLC and NV.
GLOBAL SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN AUDITED The following conditional shares vested during 2016 or were outstanding at 31 December 2016 under the GSIP: Balance of Balance of conditional shares Conditional shares conditional shares a at 1 January 2016 awarded in 2016 at 31 December 2016 Dividend Performance shares Additional period accrued shares Share Original 1 January 2016 to Price at during Vested in earned in Price at Shares No.
The 2016 award was made on 11 February 2016 vesting 11 February 2019. b This includes a grant of 39,698 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 18 February 2013 98% of which vested on 18 February 2016, a grant of 43,700 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 February 2014 70% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 36,497 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 13 February 2015 vesting 13 February 2018 and 7,411 NV shares and 8,134 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
c This includes grants that were made to Graeme Pitkethly before his appointment as Executive Director on 21 April 2016, being a grant of 4,068 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 18 February 2013 118% of which vested on 18 February 2016, a grant of 4,263 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 14 February 2014 84% of which vested on 14 February 2017, a grant of 3,216 of each of NV and PLC shares made on 13 February 2015 vesting 13 February 2018 and 734 NV shares and 806 PLC shares from reinvested dividends accrued in prior years in respect of awards.
d Reflects reinvested dividend equivalents accrued during 2016, subject to the same performance conditions as the underlying GSIP shares.
com ara2015 downloads, Executive Directors are able to choose whether they receive any shares due to vest under GSIP in PLC or NV shares or an equal number of shares in each.
Therefore, upon vesting, his 18 February 2013 PLC award was cancelled and converted and delivered to him as 43,102 NV shares resulting in a total vesting for the 18 February grant of 85,871 NV shares.
On 13 February 2017, under the GSIP Paul Polman received an award of 30,532 NV and 30,532 PLC performance-related shares, and Graeme Pitkethly received an award of 14,171 NV and 14,171 PLC performance-related shares.
72 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Starting dates of our Executive Directors service contracts: Paul Polman: 1 October 2008 signed on 7 October 2008 : and Graeme Pitkethly: 1 October 2015 signed on 16 December 2015.
Service contracts are available to shareholders to view at the AGMs or on request from the Group Secretary, and can be terminated with 12 months notice from Unilever or six months notice from the Executive Director.
A payment in lieu of notice can be made of no more than one years base salary, fixed allowance and other benefits unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
Other payments that can be made to Executive Directors in the event of loss of office are disclosed in our existing Remuneration Policy which is available on our website see www.
com ara2015 downloads, and in our new Remuneration Policy detailed above in the event of its approval by shareholders.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AUDITED There have been no payments to former Directors during the year.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments for loss of office.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2017 FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The current Non-Executive Director fee levels will not be changed for 2017, and we will review fee levels for 2018 during the course of the year.
The table below outlines the current fee structure with fees paid 50% by each of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC : Reference sterling Role total fees NV PLC Basic Non-Executive Director fee 75,000 48,065 and 37,500 a Current Chairman all-inclusive figure 600,000 384,510 and 300,000 Vice-Chairman 30,000 19,226 and 15,000 Membership of the Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation or Corporate Responsibility Committee 10,000 6,409 and 5,000 Membership of the Audit Committee 15,000 9,613 and 7,500 Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation or Corporate Responsibility Committee 20,000 12,817 and 10,000 Chair of the Audit Committee 30,000 19,226 and 15,000 a During 2016 the Compensation Committee increased the Chairmans fee from the previous figure of 550,000: the increase took effect upon the appointment of Marijn Dekkers as Chairman on 21 April 2016.
All reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by Non-Executive Directors in the course of performing their duties are considered to be business expenses.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 73 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION IN 2016 FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Non-Executive Directors, for the years 2015 and 2016.
Includes basic Non-Executive Director fee and Committee chairmanship and or membership.
b The only benefit received relates to travel by spouses or partners where they are invited by Unilever.
c Chairman with effect from 21 April 2016. d Chairman until 21 April 2016. e Chair, Corporate Responsibility Committee.
f Vice-Chairman and Chair of the Compensation Committee.
g Retired from the Boards at the April 2015 AGMs.
h Retired from the Boards at the April 2016 AGMs.
j Chair, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
We do not grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees, nor are they entitled to any severance payments.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES AUDITED Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a personal shareholding of at least 1 x their annual fees over the five years from 1 January 2012 or appointment if later.
The table shows the interests in NV and PLC ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2016.
There has been no change in these interests between 31 December 2016 and 21 February 2017 other than Judith Hartmann, who bought 1,500 NV shares on 31 January 2017 at a share price of 37.60.
b Shares held at 21 April 2016 the date by which Michael Treschow and PLC ADRs 5,000 5,000 Hixonia Nyasulu retired from the Boards.
Judith Hartmann NV 1,000 PLC 74 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT All Non-Executive Directors were re-appointed to the Boards at the 2016 AGMs, with the exception of Marijn Dekkers, Strive Masiyiwa and Youngme Moon who were appointed for the first time, and Michael Treschow and Hixonia Nyasulu who retired from the Boards.
Date first appointed Effective date of a Non-Executive Director to the Board current appointment Marijn Dekkers 21 April 2016 21 April 2016 Michael Treschow 16 May 2007 n a Nils Andersen 30 April 2015 21 April 2016 Laura Cha 15 May 2013 21 April 2016 Vittorio Colao 1 July 2015 21 April 2016 Louise Fresco 14 May 2009 21 April 2016 Ann Fudge 14 May 2009 21 April 2016 Judith Hartmann 30 April 2015 21 April 2016 Mary Ma 15 May 2013 21 April 2016 Strive Masiyiwa 21 April 2016 21 April 2016 Youngme Moon 21 April 2016 21 April 2016 Hixonia Nyasulu 16 May 2007 n a John Rishton 15 May 2013 21 April 2016 Feike Sijbesma 1 November 2014 21 April 2016 a The unexpired term for all Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is the period up to the 2017 AGMs, as they all, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for annual re-appointment.
OTHER DISCLOSURES RELATED TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION SERVING AS A NON-EXECUTIVE ON THE BOARD OF ANOTHER COMPANY Executive Directors serving as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum of one outside listed directorship see Independence and Conflicts on page 30 for further details.
Paul Polman is a non-executive director of The Dow Chemical Company and received an annual fee of 127,749 US$115,000 based on the average exchange rate over the year 2016 of 1 US$1.1109.
In addition, he received a restricted award of 2,680 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$2.50 per share in the capital of The Dow Chemical Company.
The shares include the rights to vote and to receive dividends thereon.
The shares cannot be sold or transferred until Paul Polman leaves the board of directors of The Dow Chemical Company, and in any case not earlier than 13 May 2018.
EIGHT-YEAR HISTORICAL TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR PERFORMANCE The graph below includes: growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over eight years FTSE 100 comparison based on 30-trading-day average values: and growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 investment over eight years AEX comparison based on 30-trading-day average values.
The Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance against the FTSE 100 Index, London and also the Euronext 100 index AEX, Amsterdam as these are the most relevant indices in the UK and the Netherlands where we have our principal listings.
Unilever is a constituent of both these indices.
EIGHT-YEAR HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 300 250 200 150 100 50 Unilever NV Unilever PLC FTSE 100 AEX Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 75 Value of hypothetical holding DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CEO SINGLE FIGURE EIGHT-YEAR HISTORY The table below shows the eight-year history of the CEO single figure of total remuneration: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CEO Single figure of total remuneration 000 3,859 6,292 6,010 7,852 7,740 9,561 10,296 8,370 Annual bonus award rates against maximum opportunity 82% 80% 68% 100% 78% 66% 92% 92% GSIP performance shares vesting rates against maximum opportunity n a 47% 44% 55% 64% 61% 49% 35% MCIP matching shares vesting rates against maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a n a 81% 65% 47% Share Matching Plan vesting rates against a maximum opportunity 100% 100% n a n a n a n a n a n a a Shown in year of award.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF DIRECTOR UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The table below shows the percentage change from 2015 to 2016 for base salary, bonus and benefits excluding pension for both the CEO and all UK and Dutch management in Unilever.
The subset of UK and Dutch management has been used as a fair representation of our dual listing status.
Benefits not including % change from 2015 to 2016 Salary Bonus pension a b CEO -11.0% -11.0% -5.1% c UK and Dutch management -4.3% -11.7% -23.6% a Calculated using the data from the Executive Directors single figure table on page 67. b It is noted that although the CEOs salary and annual bonus have decreased by 11.0% in the above table, this is due to currency movements, rather than any change in remuneration amounts as base salary was 1,010,000 in both 2015 and 2016, and actual annual bonus was 1,866,480 in both years.
c Similarly, figures for UK and Dutch management have also been affected by the sterling:euro exchange rate, and a rebalancing of fixed pay amounts to roll up some local allowances into salary.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The chart below shows the relative spend on pay compared with dividends paid to Unilever shareholders and core earnings.
Core earnings represent the net profit attributable to Unilever shareholders, adjusted for non-core items.
Over time, both core earnings and core earnings growth provide a good reference point to compare spend on pay.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY 7,000m -0.5% 6,000m 3.1% 5,000m 4,000m 5.8% 3,000m 2,000m 1,000m 0m Core Earnings Dividends paid to Unilever Total staff costs shareholders 2015 2016 In calculating core earnings, net profit attributable to shareholders' equity is adjusted to eliminate the post-tax impact of non-core items.
Refer to note 7, and the table entitled 'Calculation of core earnings' on page 103 for reconciliation of core earnings to net profit attributable to shareholders' equity.
76 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE The Committees membership has been further refreshed in 2016.
Ann Fudge Chair and Vittorio Colao both served throughout this period.
Former Chairman Michael Treschow was a member of the Committee until 21 April 2016, when he retired from the Boards: he was effectively replaced by his successor in that role, Marijn Dekkers, who became a member of the Committee on 21 April 2016 immediately upon his appointment as Chairman.
Similarly, Nils Andersen stepped down from the Committee on 21 April 2016, with his place being taken by Strive Masiyiwa, who joined the Committee immediately upon his appointment as a Non-Executive Director becoming effective on 21 April 2016.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year.
The Committees revised terms of reference are contained within The Governance of Unilever, and are also set out on our website www.
As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2016, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2016.
Overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is performing effectively, and has enhanced its effectiveness and that of the Boards by keeping the Boards informed of the progress of its review of the executive remuneration framework and related shareholder consultation in a timely manner, so as to enhance Board decision-making concerning these proposals.
The Committee intends to further enhance its effectiveness in 2017 by reducing pre-read materials where possible, and building in longer NED-only Committee sessions for members to share views and priorities.
ADVISERS While it is the Committees responsibility to exercise independent judgement, the Committee does request advice from management and professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure that its decisions are fully informed given the internal and external environment.
The Committee appointed Tom Gosling of  PwC to provide independent advice on various matters it considered.
The wider PwC firm has also provided tax and consultancy services to Unilever including tax compliance, transfer pricing, other tax-related services, contract compliance reviews, internal audit advice and secondees, third party risk and compliance advice, cyber security advice, sustainability assurance and consulting, and financial due diligence on disposals.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK, which is available at www.
The Committee is satisfied that the PwC engagement partner and team, which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with Unilever N. V. or Unilever PLC that might impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
The fees paid to PwC in relation to advice provided to the Committee in the year to 31 December 2016 were 107,900.
This figure is calculated based on time spent and expenses incurred for the majority of advice provided, but on occasion for specific projects a fixed fee may be agreed.
During the year, the Committee also sought input from the CEO Paul Polman, the Chief Human Resources Officer Leena Nair, who succeeded Doug Baillie upon his retirement from this role in March 2016 and the EVP Global Head of Reward Peter Newhouse on various subjects including the remuneration of senior management.
No individual Executive Director was present when their own remuneration was being discussed to ensure a conflict of interest did not arise.
The Committee also received legal and governance advice from the Group Secretary Tonia Lovell and General Counsel - Executive Remuneration & Employment Margot Fransen.
CLARIFICATION STATEMENT APPLICABLE TO 2014 REMUNERATION POLICY After publication of our Directors Remuneration Report 2013 the Committee issued a clarification statement at the request of The Investment Association previously: IMA and ABI.
The statement is available on our website.
The statement confirms that, under our existing Remuneration Policy, we will not make share awards higher than the maximum awards stated in our existing Remuneration Policy for current and newly hired Executive Directors without prior shareholder approval.
It further clarifies that awards to newly hired Executive Directors to buy out remuneration items on leaving the previous employer as provided in the new hires policy will be made under the GSIP.
Consequently, under such exceptional circumstances, the aggregated GSIP share awards for a newly hired Executive Director may be higher than the maximum annual award set out in the existing Remuneration Policy.
As stated in the existing Remuneration Policy in relation to new hires, we will inform shareholders of any such buyout awards when announcing the appointment.
Further details of our existing Remuneration Policy are available at www.
com ara2016 downloads, and for details of our proposed new Remuneration Policy please see above.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING Unilever remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Unilever would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report and Accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous report: Voting outcome % of votes For Against a 2015 Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy 2016 AGM PLC 94.49% 5.51% b 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM PLC 97.51% 2.49% c 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM NV 98.37% 1.63% a 1,772,026 votes were withheld approximately 0.14% of share capital.
b 7,606,237 votes were withheld approximately 0.85% of share capital.
c 4,188,993 votes were withheld approximately 0.27% of share capital.
The Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to a shareholder vote in the Netherlands.
It has been approved by the Boards, and signed on their behalf by Tonia Lovell, Group Secretary.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 77
