GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT The following section sets out the Remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the September 2015 AGM.
No changes to the Remuneration policy are proposed this year and thus there will be no shareholder vote on the policy at the 2016 AGM.
An abridged version, with the key elements of the Policy report, is presented below, being the policy table and policies on recruitment and termination, reflecting the fact that the Policy has been approved with only minor changes to reflect the passage of time.
The Policy report in full can be found on the Company website www.
com : it has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Directors remuneration policy Vecturas remuneration policy is driven by the Companys strategy and business model and has been designed to reflect the Committees remuneration philosophy, as summarised below.
Philosophy Support value creation for shareholders over the longer term and create alignment with shareholders Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Element Share ownership guidelines Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP andholding periods How it is Broadly mid-market.
Set no higher than The most significant element of Significant personal holdings influencedby the mid-market and is the least the package.
must be acquired and remuneration significant variable element.
maintained and vested Has stretching relative TSR philosophy shares must be retained Has stretching corporate targets that are clearly aligned fora period.
and personal targets that with shareholder value.
support Vecturas annual Two peer groups are used goals and its overall strategy.
to provide a balanced assessment of the performance of theCompany.
Performance is measured over three and five years.
Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees When determining the annual salary increases and remuneration regarding its policy for Directors, in developing its policy the packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers the Committee has regard to the policy for remuneration of employees general base salary increase for the broader employee population.
It does so in a number of respects: The remuneration of senior executives below Board level is reviewed All employees are rewarded with a remuneration package that by the Committee on an annual basis.
The remuneration packages includes certain key benefits such as life assurance, permanent of these executives are broadly consistent with the policy outlined health insurance, private medical insurance, access to the above, with the overall impact of the role and the individual being considered as well as relevant market comparative data, save that pension scheme, participation in Vecturas all-employee share lower bonus percentages and lower LTIP opportunities are applicable.
schemes and eligibility to receive a bonus.
Internally a review is underway designed to ensure that levels of remuneration for all The following table and accompanying notes set out the main principles key employees are up to date and competitive within the sector.
of reward for the Executive Directors of the Group assetout in the current Remuneration policy.
The Policy took effect immediately The bonus scheme for Directors and employees is designed to after the general meeting on 24 September 2015. reward performance, and all individuals work towards challenging personal goals.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 69 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Base salary increases are awarded No formal metrics, although To recruit and retain Executives of The Committee aims to set base at the discretion of the Committee: increases will take account of the highest calibre who are capable salary at levels that are broadly however, salary increases will Group performance.
of delivering the Groups strategic aligned with the mid-points for normally be no greater than the objectives, reflecting the equivalent roles in comparable inflationary pay rises awarded to individuals experience and role companies in the UK, adjusted to the wider workforce.
reflect company size and complexity.
Where a higher level of increase is Base salary is designed to provide Salaries are normally reviewed appropriate given the performance an appropriate level of fixed income annually and changes are generally and contribution of the incumbent, to avoid an over-reliance on variable effective from 1 April.
or where there has been a change pay elements that could encourage The annual salary review of Executive in responsibilities, the Committee excessive risk taking.
Directors takes a number of factors retains the discretion to award into consideration, including: more significant base salary increases.
business performance: salary increases awarded to the overall employee population: skills and experience of the individual over time: scope of the individuals responsibilities: changes in the size and complexity of the Group: market competitiveness: and the underlying rate of inflation.
Benefits Benefits in kind offered to The Company aims to offer The value of each benefit is not Not performance related.
Executive Directors are provided on benefits that are in line with predetermined and is based upon a market-competitive basis, to market practice.
assist with the retention and The main benefits currently provided recruitment of staff.
are life assurance, permanent health insurance, and private medical and dental insurance.
Under certain circumstances the Group will offer relocation allowances to employees.
Pensions The Group aims to provide The Group operates a money Up to 20% of basic salary contribution Not performance related.
market-competitive retirement purchase scheme and all to the Group Personal Pension Plan benefits, to reward employees, including Executive or equivalent cash allowance.
Directors, are invited to participate.
For Executives who are affected by the HMRC lifetime or annual allowances, the Company may provide cash supplements inrespect of benefits above theallowance.
70 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual performance bonus An annual cash bonus rewards the Objectives are agreed with the Bonuses are limited to a maximum Corporate goals typically include achievement of stretching objectives Committee, and the Board as a whole, of 100% of base salary for each revenue generation, development that support the Groups corporate at the start of each financial year.
of pipeline progress, partnering goals and delivery of the business successes and control of cash Different performance measures strategy together with goals in expenditure, although the and weightings may be used each relation to personal performance.
Committee has the discretion year, as agreed with the to set other targets.
Committee, to take into account changes in the business strategy.
Goals set are specific, measurable and are linked to the Groups Bonuses are paid at the discretion longer-term strategy.
The Committee takes into account overall corporate 0% of the maximum is payable at performance and individual threshold performance.
performance when determining the final bonus amount to beawarded.
Bonuses are normally paid in cash, typically in June.
Under the rules of the scheme, the Committee can claw back up to 100% of the bonus awarded in the event of material misstatement of the Companys financial results, an error in assessing the performance conditions to which an award is subject or for any other matter which it deems relevant.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made from September 2015 onwards The Remuneration Committee Annual award of nominal cost Annual awards of up to 250% of Awards granted from 2015 believes that a key component of options that vest according to salary may be granted.
onwards are based on relative total the overall remuneration package performance conditions measured shareholder return TSR against For Executive Directors this will is the provision of equity awards to over at least three financial years.
two peer groups, with each normally comprise: senior executives through the LTIP, determining the vesting of 50% of Awards subject to three-year which is designed to develop a a three-year element of up to the awards.
performance conditions are subject culture which encourages strong 100% of salary: to an additional one-year post-vesting Awards are subject to the following corporate performance on an holding requirement on the net tax vesting scales: a five-year element of up to absolute and relative basis.
100% of salary: and a three-year element: 15% Awards will be subject to vests at median, rising to 100% a five-year kicker of up to clawbackwhere there has been vesting at upper quartile: 50% of salary.
amisstatement of the Companys a five-year element: 15% vests financial results, an error in at median, rising to 100% assessing the performance vesting at upper decile: and conditions to which an award issubject or for any other a five-year kicker: 100% vests matterwhich the Committee for performance above the deems relevant.
The Committee retains the discretion to vary the peer groups, the weighting between them and or introduce new metrics for awards in future years, providing they are not materially less challenging in the circumstances.
The Committee would normally consult with its major shareholders before making significant changes to the performance conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 71 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made from September 2015 onwards continued Awards are subject to an underpin based on the Committees assessment of the Groups underlying performance against a range of factors, including the Companys underlying financial performance, absolute shareholder returns and progress against milestones over the performance period.
Any exercise of discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders.
The performance conditions for previous long-term incentive awards are described in the Annual report on remuneration.
All-employee share schemes All employees, including Executive Both of the schemes offered are Participation limits are set by the Not performance related and no Directors, are encouraged to HMRC-approved schemes and relevant tax authorities from time performance conditions apply.
become shareholders of Vectura operate on standard terms.
Group plc through participation in our all-employee share schemes.
The Group currently offers employees the opportunity to participate in the Vectura Sharesave SAYE scheme and the Vectura Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Share ownership guidelines Share ownership guidelines for In accordance with best practice, Executive Directors are required to Not performance related.
Executive Directors and senior Executive Directors are required to build and retain a holding of employees are designed to align retain at least half of any share Vectura Group plc shares the interests of senior management awards vesting as shares after equivalent to at least 200% of their to those of Vecturas shareholders.
paying any tax due until they have base salary.
reached the required level of holding.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fees Set at a level that is sufficient to The Chairman and the NonWhen reviewing fee levels, account Not performance related.
attract and retain high-calibre Executive Directors receive fees is taken of market movements in Non-Executives.
paid in cash, with additional fees the fees of Non-Executive Directors, received for chairing committees Board Committee responsibilities of the Board, for fulfilling the role and ongoing time commitments.
of Senior Independent Director or for transatlantic travel.
Fees are paid monthly and reviewed annually.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performance-related incentive schemes, nor do they receive any benefits, other than limited travel and hospitality-related benefits, in connection with their roles.
For the avoidance of doubt, any commitments entered into by the Company prior to the approval and implementation of the policy outlined above may be honoured, even if they are not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled.
In operating its policy, the Committee has a number of discretions set out in the approved policy and the relevant sections of the various plan rules.
72 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors James Ward-Lilley The charts below show hypothetical values of the 2016 17 Minimum 100% 585,500 remuneration package for each Executive Director under three assumed performance scenarios and these scenarios are based upon the remuneration policy set out above.
The information On-target 61% 24% 15% 954,500 presented below uses the level of salary, benefits and pension entitlements for each of the Directors as at 1 April 2016 or at the time of appointment.
Andrew Oakley has not been included in Maximum 26% 21% 53% 2,199,875 these calculations as, subject to completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC, he will stand down as Chief Financial Officer.
Following completion, Andrew Derodra, currently theChief Financial Trevor Phillips Officer of Skyepharma PLC, will assume the roleof Chief Financial Officer within the Enlarged Group.
Minimum 100% 362,706 Base salaries for the current year are: James Ward-Lilley 461,250, Trevor Phillips 288,922 and Andrew Derodra 341,000.
Benefits On-target 61% 24% 15% 593,844 of 32,000, 16,000 and 6,000 respectively, and a pension allowance of 20% of salary have been assumed.
Maximum 26% 21% 53% 1,373,933 Below target remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that there is no annual bonus payment and no awards under the LTIP vest.
On-target performance remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that the Directors receive a 50% of salary bonus payout and Andrew Derodra that LTIP awards worth 30% of salary at grant would ultimately vest.
Minimum 100% 415,000 Stretch remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that the Directors receive a maximum bonus payout of 100% of their salary and that On-target 61% 24% 15% 688,000 a maximum LTIP award of 250% of salary would ultimately vest.
The actual amounts earned by Executive Directors under these three scenarios will depend on share price performance over the Maximum 26% 21% 53% 1,609,000 vesting period.
For the purpose of these illustrations, any share price appreciation has been ignored.
For simplicity, the value of participating in the Companys all-employee share schemes has Fixed Bonus LTIP also been ignored.
Other remuneration policies Termination and loss of office payments ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, the sale of his employing The Groups policy on remuneration for Executive Directors who company or business out of the Vectura Group or for any other leave the Group is consistent with general market practice and is reason, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, set out below.
The Committee will exercise its discretion when awards will not be forfeited but will instead vest on the normal determining amounts that should be paid to leavers, taking into vesting date.
Vesting in these circumstances will be subject to account the facts and circumstances of each case.
When calculating the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions measured termination payments, the Committee will take into account a atthat time and time pro-rating.
In exceptional circumstances, variety of factors, including individual and Company performance, the Remuneration Committee may allow the awards to vest on the length of service of the Executive Director in question and, cessation of the participants employment, subject to the where appropriate, the obligation for the Executive Director to satisfaction of the performance conditions measured at that time mitigate loss.
In either case, the Remuneration Committee In the case of a good leaver, the following policy will normally apply: can decide to disapply time pro-rating, if it thinks it is appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances: notice period of twelve months and pension and contractual benefits, or payment in lieu of notice: any other share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Companys share and share option plans will be statutory redundancy payments will be made, as appropriate: determined based upon the relevant plan rules: and Executives have no entitlement to a bonus payment in the event the Committee may also provide for the leaver to be reimbursed that they cease to be employed by the Group: however, they fora reasonable level of legal fees in connection with a may be considered for a pro-rated award by the Committee in settlement agreement.
good leaver circumstances: In circumstances in which a leaving Director may be entitled to the rules of the LTIP contain provisions setting out the treatment pursue a legal claim, the Company may negotiate settlement terms of awards where a participant ceases to be employed by the if it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and, Vectura Group.
Other than in good leaver circumstances, awards with the approval of the Committee on the remuneration elements will normally lapse.
In the event of a participants death, retirement, therein, enter into a settlement agreement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 73 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Other remuneration policies continued As announced on 8 April 2016, John Brown will step down from Executive Directors service contracts theboard of the enlarged Vectura Group within one month after It is the Groups policy that Executive Directors should have contracts the completion of the merger.
Upon completion of the merger, with an indefinite term and which provide for a maximum period Vectura will appoint Frank Condella, Skyepharmas Chairman, as oftwelve months notice.
Vice-Chairman of the enlarged Vectura Group, and Dr Thomas Werner, a Non-Executive Skyepharma Director, will be appointed as a This applies to James Ward-Lilley whose contract took effect from Non-Executive Director of the enlarged Vectura Group Board.
24 September 2015, to Trevor Phillips whose contract was amended with effect from 16 July 2012, and to Andrew Oakley, Remuneration for new appointments whose contract took effect from 1 January 2015.
In accordance Where it is necessary to recruit or replace an Executive Director, with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as applicable theCommittee has determined that the new Executive Director to a FTSE 250 company, all Executive Directors are subject annual willreceive a compensation package in accordance with the re-election at each AGM.
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with In setting base salaries for new Executive Directors, the Committee prior Board approval, provided that these opportunities do not negatively will consider the existing salary package of the new Director and impact on their ability to fulfil their duties to the Group.
Whether the individuals level of experience.
In setting the annual performance any related fees are retained by the individual or are remitted to bonus, the Committee may wish to set different performance theGroup will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
None of metrics to those of other Executive Directors in the first year of theExecutive Directors currently holds any outside directorships.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-median salary on initial appointment, the Committee will have the discretion Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement to allow phased salary increases over a period of time for a newly All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement which appointed Director, even though this may involve increases in are terminable on not less than three months notice by either party excess of inflation and the increases awarded to the wider workforce.
and not less than six months notice in the case of the Chairman.
Theremuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the The Committee wishes to retain the ability to make buyout awards Board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based to a new Executive Director to facilitate the recruitment process.
on a review of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies.
The amount of any such award would not exceed the expected In accordance with the Code, as applicable to a FTSE 250 company, value being forfeited and, to the extent possible, would mirror the allNon-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election at form of payment, timing and degree of conditionality, etc.
awards are granted subject to performance conditions, these would be relevant to Vectura Group plc.
Any such award would only be made The dates of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors in exceptional circumstances and shareholders would be informed serving at 31 March 2016 are summarised in the table below.
of any such payments at the time of appointment.
Share-based Date of appointment awards would be made using the existing share plans, where possible, although the Committee may also use the flexibility J R Brown 13 May 2004 provided under the Listing Rules to make awards without prior S E Foden 18 January 2007 shareholder approval.
N W Warner 1 February 2011 In respect of internal appointments, any commitments entered into B F J Angelici 1 December 2013 in respect of a prior role, including variable pay elements, may be P-O Andersson 1 April 2015 allowed to pay out according to its prior terms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may consider A Board evaluation has been performed and the results of this itappropriate to pay reasonable relocation or incidental expenses, exercise confirmed that all Non-Executive Directors were independent, including payment of reasonable legal expenses.
Tax equalisation including Dr John Brown and Dr Sue Foden who have service greater may be considered if an Executive Director is adversely affected than nine years.
Their independence is considered valid due to bytaxation due to their employment with the Company.
themajor change inthe operating activities of the Group and therefreshment of Non-Executive and Executive members The terms of appointment for a Non-Executive Director would be in oftheBoard during the terms of their appointment.
accordance with the remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors as set out in the policy table.
74 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Annual report on remuneration determining the terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives, including recruitment Remuneration Committee the Committee and retention terms: Governance The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive approving the design and performance targets of any annual Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Susan Foden and, during incentive schemes that include the Executive Directors and theyear ended 31 March 2016, its members were Bruno Angelici, seniorexecutives: Dr John Brown, Dr Per-Olof Andersson and Neil Warner.
agreeing the design and performance targets, where applicable, In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance of all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval: Code, the Board has confirmed that Bruno Angelici was independent upon his appointment to the Board, and that he continues to be rigorously assessing the appropriateness and subsequent independent.
No conflicts of interest have arisen during the year achievement of the performance targets related to any share and none of the members of the Committee has any personal incentive plans: financial interest in the matters discussed, other than as shareholders.
recommending to the Board the fees to be paid to the Chairman.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the The Chairman is excluded from this process: and Board on the joint recommendation of the Chairman and the ChiefExecutive Officer.
the selection and appointment of the external advisors to the Committee to provide independent remuneration advice The Committee takes account of information from both internal wherenecessary.
andindependent sources, including New Bridge Street NBS Aonplcs executive remuneration consultancy who act as the The Committee is formally constituted and operates on written Committees principal, and only material, advisor.
NBS advises on terms of reference, which are modelled on the Code and are allaspects of Vecturas Remuneration policy and reviews Vecturas available on Vecturas website, www.
remuneration structures against corporate governance best practice.
Meetings and key decisions during FY 2015 16 NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group The Committee met formally six times during the year ended and complies with its Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines to 31March 2016. ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
The key decisions made by the Committee during the year are The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its summarised below: advisors on an annual basis.
During the year, Vectura incurred fees of 187,630 from New Bridge Street.
The Committee also engaged approval of overall pay levels for FY 2015 16 for the Group the services of  LLP PwC to undertake as a whole: total shareholder return TSR calculations in respect of the 2012 approval of base salary increases for Executive Directors and other LTIP award which vested in 2015.
PwC was paid 18,000 in respect of this engagement.
members of the Executive Leadership Team, ensuring that, where appropriate, these are aligned both internally and externally: The Groups Human Resource Director provides updates to the Committee, as required, to ensure that the Committee is fully review of achievement against corporate goals and approval informed about pay and performance issues throughout the Group.
ofthe percentage of the bonus pool to be paid out across the The Committee takes these factors into account when determining Group, and a review of achievement against personal goals the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives.
forExecutive Directors: No Executive Director or employee is allowed to participate in approval of a temporary increase in the Chief Operating Officers anydiscussion directly relating to their own personal conditions salary during his period as Interim Chief Executive Officer: ofservice or remuneration.
approval of the buyout arrangements and remuneration Role package for the new Chief Executive Officer: The Committees principal function is to support Vecturas strategy approval of the payment of a relocation allowance for a by ensuring that those individuals responsible for delivering the two-year period to the Chief Financial Officer: strategy are appropriately incentivised through the operation of Vecturas remuneration policy.
In determining the Groups current review of the performance conditions for awards under the 2012 policy, and in constructing the remuneration arrangements for Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, resulting in the approval of 50% Executive Directors and senior employees, the Board, advised by vesting of the awards granted in 2012: the Committee, aims to provide remuneration packages that are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate Executive approval of a new LTIP, grant of the first awards under the 2015 Directors and senior employees of the highest calibre.
LTIP and confirmation of the peer group for the first awards: The Committee is responsible for: review and approval of overall pay levels FY 2016 17 for the Group as a whole: setting a remuneration policy that is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company: approval of the remuneration package for the incoming ChiefFinancial Officer post completion of the proposed merger: and, ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors andother senior executives reflects both their individual approval of the remuneration elements in the arrangements performance and their contribution to the overall Group results: forthe outgoing Chief Financial Officer post completion of the proposed merger.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 75 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Audited information Directors remuneration year ended 31 March 2016 The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments plus Company pension contributions, and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the year to 31March 2016, being 726,000 2015: 1,460,000.
2 J W ard-Lilley was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 24 September 2015.
On appointment he received a cash payment of 164,784 which represented his anticipated bonus payment of 226,114, pro-rated for the proportion of bonus year that he year served at AstraZeneca.
This payment was a compensation for his pro-rata bonus entitlement at his existing employer.
In addition, he received an award over 571,988 nil cost options shares as one part of his buyout arrangements.
Half of this tranche of options vested immediately with a value of 500,203, subject to a twelve-month holding requirement, with the remainder vesting twelve months after appointment subject to the achievement of personal performance conditions.
The award of options is subject clawback in certain circumstances.
The value of the bonus buy out bonus award and the value of the shares that vested immediately have been included within Other in the above table.
3 T M Phillips salary was temporarily incr eased from 281,875 to 381,875 for the period from 1 July 2015 to 24 September 2015 whilst he fulfilled the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, T M Phillips receives benefits of 15,000 US$22,588 at an average annual exchange rate relating to US medical and dental insurance.
T M Phillips also makes employee contributions towards this plan.
4 A J Oakley was pr ovided with a temporary relocation allowance of 2,500 per month starting from 1 November 2015 in order to assist with the cost of temporary accommodation and travel connected with his relocation from Switzerland to Chippenham.
In addition, he receives benefits of 11,362 relating to worldwide medical and dental insurance.
5 PO Andersson was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015.
P-O Andersson receives a 2,000 allowance for each Board meeting that requires transatlantic travel and these amounts are shown as Other in the table above.
Directors remuneration year ended 31 March 2015 The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the prior year is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum ofemoluments plus Company pension contributions, and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance inthe year to 31March 2015, being 1,460,000 2014: 117,000.
Basic Total a b c salary Benefits Bonus Pension SIP SAYE remuneration d e f g 000 000 000 LTIP entitlements Other awards 000 Executive Directors C P Blackwell 400 2 320 1,144 80 5 1,951 6 T M Phillips 275 16 231 316 55 5 898 7 A J Oakley 69 58 14 4 145 8 P S Oliver 165 2 108 33 278 5 591 Non-Executive Directors B F J Angelici 120 120 J R Brown 52 52 S E Foden 52 52 N W Warner 52 52 1,185 20 717 1,460 182 278 19 3,861 6 T M Phillips r eceives benefits of 15,000 US$24,541 at an average annual exchange rate relating to US medical and dental insurance.
7 A J Oakley was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2015.
8 P S Oliver stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary with effect from 1 January 2015.
76 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Notes to the remuneration tables a This is the amount earned in respect of the financial year.
b This is the taxable value of benefits paid in r espect of the financial year.
These benefits typically relate to death, disability and medical insurance.
As disclosed in footnotes 3 and 6 above, T M Phillips also receives benefits in relation to US medical and dental insurance and, as disclosed in footnote 4, A J Oakley receives worldwide medical and dental insurance and was provided with a relocation allowance.
c This is the total bonus earned under the annual bonus scheme in r espect of the financial year.
d The amount shown r elates to the market value of LTIP awards that vested during the year.
Refer to page 80 for details of LTIP awards which have vested during the year.
e UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions wher e prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded.
TheCommittee has previously determined that impacted Executive Directors would receive pension benefits limited by the prescribed maximum amounts and an additional taxable supplementary cash payment equal to the cost to the Company of the pension benefit foregone.
The amount of the allowance awarded to any Executive Director so impacted has been set by the Committee so that there isno additional cost to the Company resulting from this arrangement.
f Other payments in 2015 16 r elate to payments made under agreements with C P Blackwell and with J Ward-Lilley: these amounts are explained on page 83 of this report.
Other payments in 2014 15 relate to payments made under an agreement with P S Oliver: these amounts were described in the Annual report on remuneration last year.
g This r elates to matching and free share SIP awards granted during the year and SAYE awards which have vested during the year.
Thebenefit of the SIP awards is calculated as the number of shares awarded multiplied by the share price on the date of the award.
Thebenefit of the SAYE award is calculated as the number of options awarded multiplied by the discount to the market share price onthe date the option was awarded.
Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration audited information Performance-related pay earned in the year Annual performance bonus All employees are eligible for an annual discretionary cash bonus, whereby performance objectives are established at the beginning of thefinancial year by reference to suitably challenging corporate goals.
The scheme is offered to all staff below Board level and maximum bonus opportunities range from 10% to 75% of salary, depending on grade.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
The Committee has consistently set stretching corporate goals, including goals around revenue generation, development pipeline progress, partnering successes and control of cash expenditure, which are weighted towards goals with the highest corporate significance.
In addition, a significant percentage of the bonus potential is set against challenging personal objectives which are linked to the overall business strategy.
Bonuses are limited to a maximum of 100% of basic salary for each Executive Director.
For the year ended 31 March 2016 the performance objectives against which bonus payments were calculated are set out in the table overleaf.
Full disclosure of some objectives has been restricted due to commercial sensitivity: however, full disclosure will be provided asandwhen the objectives cease to be commercially sensitive.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 77 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table audited information continued Performance-related pay earned in the year continued Annual performance bonus continued The Committee assessed that a bonus of 89%92% 2014 15: 80%84% of salary was appropriate for the Executive Directors when judged by the achievement of the metrics set out in the tables below.
Level of bonus awarded as a % ofmetric % of Performance measure Weighting Stretch Achievement fullbonus Commentary EBITDA progression 10% 18.0m 23.2m 100% 10% Revenue growth 10% 83.0m 72.0m 90% 9% Slight underperformance to stretch target driven by a delay on VR315 US milestone announcement Cash balance excluding 10% 93.0m 93.8m 100% 10% At target working capital and non-recurring expenses Corporate strategy targets 10% Qualitative 100% 10% Long-term strategy reviewed assessment and agreed with the Board Activaero operations 5% Close the Gemnden manufacturing site by 31 100% 5% Gemnden site closed March 2016 smoothlyand manufacturing activities transitioned to Ensure site at Chippenham and contract UKsitesand tocontract manufacturing organisation are operating manufacturing organisations effectively to cover the manufacturing duties Ensure the management of the sites in Germany is fit for purpose and delivers integration without hindering progress of anyprogrammes FAVOLIR and SCIPE targets 15% VR475 EU FAVOLIR, in Europe, 87% 13% Good progress with strong patient  recruitment reached Strategic plan agreed for SCIPE project FDA and Key opinion leader KOL in the US interactions completed andstrategic plan agreed New deals and strategic 15% Add value through partnerships 67% 10% Good progress in planned partnerships demonstrated by either: dealflow with several a positive net present value NPV opportunities identified adding value to the business Skyepharma planned mergerannounced a positive perception of our technology business resulting from the deal announcement Management succession 5% Progress leadership and succession planning 100% 5% Structured review completed plantargets andsignificant progress made Assess strategic capabilities and agree development plan Capability development plan in long-term strategy review Total 80% 72% 78 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE The personal objectives set in respect of the 2015 16 bonus plan are set out below: Personal objectives Key aspects of performance against individual objectives Performance Payout as % of salary J Ward-Lilley Strategy development Assessed of core strategy and critical capabilities of Achieved 20% the organisation, current portfolio, new opportunities, assets and markets completed and presented to theBoard.
Leadership team Assessed and made recommendations for Executive Achieved assessment Leadership Team ELT to execute strategy.
Effective progression Evaluated M&A and core targets and progressed Achieved ofacquisitions, merger Skyepharma opportunity.
andpartnering Operational delivery Delivered targets for 2015 16, progressing the Achieved VR315 US and FAVOLIR programmes and the transfer of Activaero operations.
A J Oakley Strategy development Contributed to business strategy development, Achieved 17% including relevant business shape and business development financing and transactions.
Contributed to, prepared for, and facilitated of, theproposed merger with Skyepharma PLC Development of the Groups Enhanced the effectiveness of finance processes, Achieved financial processes management information and reporting.
Development of the Enhanced Company Secretarial materials and improved Partially Company Secretariat the Board processes through advanced planning achieved andpreparation.
Development of the Ensured effective team development, including Partially Groupsfinancial anappropriate structure for the finance function.
achieved organisation T M Phillips Strategy development Contributed to the generation and execution of the Achieved 20% Company strategy.
Interim Chief Executive Enabled business growth through support of the Achieved Officer role establishment of new business development leads andcontribution to proposed Skyepharma merger.
Operational delivery Delivered projects to time and budget targets Achieved throughoutFY 2015 16. Business operations team Developed of management team to ensure business Achieved development operations are effectively managed and led.
The resulting annual bonus awards were as follows: Maximum opportunity Actual % of Total % salary salary awarded J Ward-Lilley 100 92 215,000 A Oakley 100 89 251,000 1 T M Phillips 100 92 282,000 1 Based upon salary earned in the year, which was inclusive of a 100,000 uplift in salary during the three-month period Trevor Phillips was acting as Interim Chief Executive Officer.
Consistent with our policy, bonuses are paid entirely in cash.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 79 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table audited information continued LTIP scheme Scheme interests vested during the year On 12 September 2012, an award of LTIP options was made to the Executive Directors who were in office at this time.
Vesting of these awards was calculated in the year by PwC as follows: Measure Performance target Actual performance The vesting outcome for each comparator group is calculated as follows: TSR against FTSE Vecturas TSR exceeded that of the Upper SmallCap Index Level of comparative performance during Quartile of the FTSE SmallCap Index over theperformance period Percentage of LTIP award released the measurement period.
Consequently, 100% of this element of the awards were Below median eligible to vest.
1 TSR against Euro Stoxx At or above median 25 Vecturas TSR was 20% below the median comparator group 1 of the peer group over the measurement Upper quartile 100 period.
Consequently, none of this element 1 Linear vesting between points.
of the awards was eligible to vest.
The value of LTIP options which have vested during the year is as follows: Number Share price at Percentage of Exercise Value of LTIP of options vesting award price awards vesting Director awarded p vested p C P Blackwell 401,889 178.6 50% 0.025 358,836 T M Phillips 410,659 178.6 50% 0.025 366,666 Total 812,548 725,502 In accordance with the rules of Vecturas LTIP scheme, the Committee determined that Chris Blackwell should be treated as a good leaver.
Hisoutstanding awards under the plan are subject to pro-rating based on the period to the end of his notice period on 30 June 2016.
Scheme interests awarded during the year audited Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP At a general meeting of the Company held on 24 September 2015, the 2015 LTIP scheme, as described in the remuneration policy on pages 71 to 72, was approved by shareholders.
Following shareholder approval, the following awards of nominal cost options were granted to the Executive Directors under the new 2015 LTIP scheme: Share price used Number to determine of options Value of level of award Face value Exercise price % that vests at 1 Director awarded award p p threshold Vesting date J Ward-Lilley 630,252 250% 178.5 1,125,000 0.025 12.5 See below T M Phillips 394,782 250% 178.5 704,686 0.025 12.5 See below A J Oakley 394,782 250% 178.5 704,686 0.025 12.5 See below Total 1,419,816 2,534,372 1 40% of the award vests on 24 September 2018 and the remaining 60% of the award 40% for the standard five-year award and 20% for the kicker vests on 24 September 2020.
Details of the relevant performance conditions are set out on page 81.
80 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP audited Award levels were calculated based on the closing share price of 178.5p on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
Theface value of each award shown overleaf is based upon this share price.
The awards granted under the 2015 LTIP scheme on 24 September 2015 are subject to relative TSR, measured over three tranches overthree or five years, against two comparator groups each representing 50% of the total award, as set out in the table below: Proportion of total award two Performance equal parts period Comparator group Performance required for vesting Tranche 1 20% 3 years FTSE 250 companies excluding real estate Median 15% to upper quartile 100% and financial services 20% 3 years Selected European pharmaceutical companies Tranche 2 20% 5 years FTSE 250 companies excluding real estate Median 15% to upper decile 100% and financial services 20% 5 years Selected European pharmaceutical companies Tranche 3 10% 5 years FTSE 250 companies excluding real estate Upper decile 100% and financial services 10% Selected European pharmaceutical companies The Committee reviewed the constituents of the European pharmaceutical peer group at the time of grant and determined that two companies in the proposed group, BB Biotech and Tubize, were not appropriate comparators as they are investment companies rather than businesses actively involved in the sector.
It therefore decided that these companies should be replaced by Circassia and Consort Medical, who are competitors and relevant to Vecturas own business, in the final comparator group used for the 2015 award.
The full European pharmaceutical comparator group used for these awards is AB Science, Ablynx, Actelion, ALK-Abell, Almirall, Basilea, Bavarian Nordic, Biotest, Boiron, BTG, Celyad, CHR Hansen, Circassia, Consort Medical, Cosmo, Dechra, Evotec, Faes Farma, Galapagos, Genfit, Genmab, Genus, Grifols, Guerbet, Hikma, Innate Pharma, Ipsen, KRKA, Lonza, Lundbeck, Meda, Medivir, Merck KGaA, Morphosys, Novozymes, Orion, Pharma Mar, Qiagen, Recordati, Richter Gedeon, ROVI, Shire, Siegfried, SOBI, Sopharma, Stada-Arzneimittel, Stallergenes, ThromboGenics, Transgene, UCB, Valneva, Vtoquinol, Virbac, Zealand Pharma.
Performance against the conditions will be measured by the Committees independent advisors.
Irrespective of the extent to which the relative TSR conditions have been met, the Committee may decrease the percentage vesting based on a range of factors, including the Groups performance, absolute shareholder returns and progress against milestones.
Any exercise of this discretion by the Committee will be fully disclosed to shareholders with an explanation of the Committees reasoning in the Remuneration report for the relevant year.
To the extent that the performance conditions are not met in full at the end of the three-year or five-year performance periods, awards lapse.
The Committee has the power to claw back and or apply a malus mechanism in respect of all or part of the awards payments for one year following vesting in the event of a material misstatement, error in the calculation of performance against the performance conditions of the plan or any other matter which it deems relevant to this provision.
Free share awards An award of free shares was made to all employees on 14 July 2015, under Vecturas Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The awards are subject to a three-year holding period and no performance conditions are attached.
The awards made to Directors who held office on 14 July 2015 are shown in the table below: Closing share Number of price on Face shares date of grant value % that vests Vesting Director awarded p at threshold date T M Phillips 2,020 178.2 3,600 14 07 2018 A J Oakley 505 178.2 900 14 07 2018 Total 2,525 4,500 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 81 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table audited information continued Scheme interests awarded during the year audited continued Matching share awards On 6 July 2015, the Directors listed below purchased shares through the SIP.
For every one share purchased, Vectura awarded a free matching share pursuant to the scheme rules.
The value of the matching shares is shown below.
Closing share Number of price on Face shares date of grant value % that vests Vesting Director awarded p at threshold date T M Phillips 1,000 180 1,800 06 07 2018 A J Oakley 1,000 180 1,800 06 07 2018 Total 2,000 3,600 Sharesave Vectura Group plc also operates a Sharesave SAYE Share Option Scheme for employees and Executive Directors.
Under this scheme all eligible employees and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options, which may be granted at a discount of up to 20% of market value and which vest after three years.
The SAYE is an HMRC-approved all-employee plan to which performance conditions do not apply.
On 28 February 2016, the following Sharesave options vested: Number Share price at Percentage of Exercise Value of SAYE of options vesting award price award vesting Director awarded p vested p T M Phillips 11,718 162.6 100 77.0 10,054 Total 11,718 10,054 Approved and Unapproved Share Option Plans Executive Directors hold options under the Approved and Unapproved Share Option Plans as detailed above.
Historically, no performance conditions have been attached to the options granted under the above schemes.
The exercise price is equal to the market value of VecturaGroup plcs shares at the time the options are granted.
Total pension entitlements As stated in the notes to the single figure remuneration table, UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded.
Impacted Executive Directors receive an additional taxable supplementary cash payment in lieu of pension contributions in excess of any limits.
Paid into pension Received Total fund in cash pension 000 000 000 Executive Directors C P Blackwell 80 27 107 J Ward-Lilley 47 47 A J Oakley 56 56 T M Phillips 61 61 197 74 271 Buyout of James Ward-Lilleys entitlements at his previous employer As previously explained to shareholders, on 24 September 2015, James Ward-Lilley received an award of shares to compensate him for the loss of a number of long-term incentive awards received from his previous employer AstraZeneca.
In accordance with the Groups approved remuneration policy, when structuring these awards the Committee sought to ensure that the expected value of the replacement awards was no greater than the expected value being forfeited and to replicate, to the extent possible, the form of payment, timing and degree of conditionality of the awards foregone.
In addition, the Committee understood the importance of recruiting James without delay alongside ensuring alignment with Vecturas shareholders and the existing members of the ELT.
82 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE The awards made were as follows: An award of nil cost options over 571,988 ordinary shares granted on 24 September 2015 as compensation for a one-off award linked to the achievement of certain therapeutic milestones at AstraZeneca.
As a significant proportion of these milestones had been achieved by the time of his departure half of this award vested immediately subject to a twelve-month holding requirement post vesting and clawback.
The remainder of the award vests on 24 September 2016 subject to continued employment other than departure as a good leaver, the achievement of commercially sensitive strategic targets measured in the first twelve months of employment and clawback if the 2015 milestone trigger performance condition in the AstraZeneca arrangements were not achieved: An award of nil-cost options over 285,994 ordinary shares which will vest on 7 June 2016.
This was granted as compensation for an award granted in 2013 under the AstraZeneca LTIP which was due to vest in June 2016.
Vesting of this award is subject to the TSR performance criteria of Vecturas 2013 LTIP award: and An award of nil-cost options over 273,635 ordinary shares which will, subject to performance, vest on 1 July 2017.
This award was granted as compensation for an award granted in 2014 under the AstraZeneca LTIP which was due to vest in March 2017.
Vesting of this award is subject to the TSR performance criteria of Vecturas 2014 LTIP award.
James Ward-Lilley also forfeited an AstraZeneca award granted in 2015 which was due to vest in 2018: this was not bought out, as on appointment he received an award under Vecturas 2015 LTIP at the same time as other Vectura Executive Directors.
He also received a cash payment of 168,784 in respect of his anticipated bonus payment of 226,114.
This award was pro-rated to reflect the proportion ofthe AstraZeneca bonus year worked.
These awards were made under the terms of a share award agreement in connection with James recruitment as Chief Executive Officer ofVectura.
They were made to facilitate recruitment and to compensate for loss of certain benefits and share awards from James previous employment, which were forfeited as a result of his employment by Vectura.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these awards fairly reflect the awards James forfeited on leaving his previous employment in terms of value and timing of vesting.
These one-off awards of nil-cost options were granted under the exemption to the requirement for prior shareholder approval to which Listing Rule 9.4.
No consideration was paid for the grant of these awards and no consideration is due on the vesting of these awards.
The awards made are in accordance with Vecturas approved remuneration policy and are subject to clawback in certain circumstances.
The awards will be satisfied with the transfer of existing shares.
The share price on the date of grant of these awards was 174.9p.
The targets that apply to the award, that is due to vest on 24 September 2016, are commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in next years report.
A summary of the share awards is provided in the table below: Share price Number on date Face Exercise of options of award value price % that vests Vesting Awards granted under LR 9.4.
2 2 awarded p p at threshold date Buyout of 50% of AstraZeneca milestone award 285,994 174.9 500,203 nil n a 24 09 2015 Buyout of 50% of AstraZeneca milestone award 285,994 174.9 500,203 nil 24 09 2016 Buyout of 2013 AstraZeneca LTIP award 285,994 174.9 500,203 nil 25% 07 06 2016 Buyout of 2014 AstraZeneca LTIP Award 273,635 174.9 478,588 nil 25% 01 07 2017 Total 1,131,617 1,979,197 Payments made for loss of office and payments to past Directors audited information As described in last years Annual Remuneration report, Chris Blackwell continued in his role as Chief Executive until 30 June 2015.
In April 2015, Vectura entered into an agreement with Chris Blackwell pursuant to which he received a payment in lieu of salary for his twelve-month notice period and a payment of 96,000 as full settlement of his legal rights against the Company.
Vectura continues to provide Chris with contractual benefits and pension contributions for the duration of his notice period.
He did not receive a bonus for the period worked in FY 2015 16.
In light of Chris Blackwells strong performance and contribution to the growth of the business over his twelve years as Chief Executive, and in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy and the rules of Vecturas LTIP scheme, Chris was treated as a good leaver.
Hisoutstanding awards under the plan will be subject to pro-rating for time, based on the period elapsed from the date of grant to the end of his notice period on 30 June 2016.
These awards will vest at the normal date, subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions.
The Committee believes these arrangements are appropriate in light of Chris performance in his role to the time of his departure and his tenure as Chief Executive.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 83 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table audited information continued Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited information As a direct link between Executive remuneration and the interests of shareholders, the Committee has implemented shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and key senior employees.
The guidelines require that Executive Directors build up and maintain an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company that is 200% of their annual base salary.
In assessing compliance with this requirement, the value of the shareholding shown below is assessed using the share price on 31 March 2016, being 162.6p.
The value as a percentage of salary has been calculated using the base salary as at 31 March 2016, as shown in the single figure remuneration table.
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions 9 Shares owned Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Value of owned Awards Awards 31 March 2016 shares as granted granted ordinary shares a % of 2013 2014 2015 under under LR 9.4.
2 2 Unapproved Approved Unapproved Approved 7 7 8 of 0.025p each salary award award award LR 9.4.
2 2 and LTIP schemes scheme scheme Sharesave scheme scheme Sharesave Executive Directors 1 C P Blackwell 1,325,143 503 458,110 300,751 2,551,722 906,605 37,383 2 T M Phillips 221,765 128 611,246 206,766 394,782 205,330 11,718 3 J Ward-Lilley 630,252 845,623 285,994 4 A J Oakley 2,505 394,782 15,734 Non-Executive Directors B F J Angelici 12,903 5 J R Brown 322,570 S E Foden 11,000 6 P-O Andersson N W Warner 30,477 1 The shar eholding shown for C P Blackwell is his shareholding as at the date he ceased to be a Director of Vectura Group plc, 30 June 2015.
The percentage of his salary held in shares is calculated using the share price as at 31 March 2016 and his annual salary at the point of his departure, 428,000.
Options shown are Chris option holdings on 30 June 2015, before the application of pro-rating and performance conditions.
2 The holding of T M Phillips includes 25,198 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust SIP.
3 J W ard-Lilley joined the Board on 24 September 2015.
On joining he received an award under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 as compensation for various forfeited LTIP awards at AstraZeneca.
Details of the terms of these awards are provided on page 83.
4 The holding of A J Oakley includes 2,505 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held in the Vectura Group plc Employee Benefit Trust SIP.
5 The holding of J R Brown includes 20,457 ordinary shares of 0.025p each, which are held through nominees.
6 P-O Andersson joined the Board on 1 April 2015.
7 The 2013 and 2014 awar ds are subject to the same performance conditions measured over three years from the date of grant of each award.
Vesting of 50% of the awards is dependent onrelative TSR performance against the FTSE Small Cap and 50% against the following peer group selected from the constituents of the Euro Stoxx Index: Ablynx, Active Biotech, ALK-Abell, BB Biotech, BTG, Faes Farma, Galapagos, Genmab, Hikma, Ipsen, Medivir, Pharma Mar, Recordati, Stada-Arzneimittel AG, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, ThromboGenics NV, Tubize, Virbac.
Novesting occurs if Vecturas TSR is below median, 25% of each element vests at median, rising to full vesting at upper quartile.
At the time of setting the peer group for the new 2015 LTIP award, the Committee identified that Algeta had delisted early in the performance period for the 2013 and 2014 awards and, in accordance with the rules, determined that Algeta should bereplaced by Thrombogenics in the Euro Stoxx peer group.
Thrombogenics was selected as it was the next closest member of the Euro Stoxx Index in terms of market capitalisation atthetime the peer group was decided upon.
Prior to making this substitution the Committee satisfied itself that this change would not increase the level of vesting based on performance up tothe date of amendment.
8 Awards consist of a three-year tranche, a five-year tranche and a five-year kicker.
Vesting conditions and peer group are set out on page 81.
9 T revor Phillips vested LTIP awards relate to outstanding awards granted between 2005 and 2010.
James Ward-Lilleys vested LTIP award relates to half of the award granted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 as compensation for his one-off milestone based AstraZeneca award as described on page 83.
Details of the performance conditions applicable to the unvested LTIP awards are set out on page 81.
84 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Until this level of shareholding has been attained, Executive Directors are required to retain at least half of any share awards vesting as shares after paying any tax due until they have a holding equivalent to at least 200% of their base salary.
The Directors who have held office during the year ended 31 March 2016 and their interests in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Transparency Rules in the share capital of Vectura Group plc at 31 March 2016 are shown in the table below.
There was no change in the Directors interests between 31 March 2016 and 25 May 2016, the date of this report.
2 2 and LTIP schemes scheme scheme Sharesave scheme scheme Sharesave Executive Directors 1 C P Blackwell 1,325,143 503 458,110 300,751 2,551,722 906,605 37,383 2 T M Phillips 221,765 128 611,246 206,766 394,782 205,330 11,718 3 J Ward-Lilley 630,252 845,623 285,994 4 A J Oakley 2,505 394,782 15,734 Non-Executive Directors B F J Angelici 12,903 5 J R Brown 322,570 S E Foden 11,000 6 P-O Andersson N W Warner 30,477 Unaudited information Performance graph and table The following graph shows Vectura Group plcs cumulative total shareholder return TSR over the last seven financial years relative to the FTSE 250 Index.
This Index was chosen as Vectura is one of the constituent companies and the Committee feels that it is the most appropriate against which to measure performance.
TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and any other payments made to or by shareholders within the period.
Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Reuters 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2015 31 March 2016 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2016, of 100 invested in Vectura Group plc on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Vectura Group plc FTSE 250 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 85 Value REMUNERATION REPORT continued Unaudited information continued Aligning pay with performance Chief Executive Officer remuneration compared with annual growth in TSR: Chris James Blackwell Ward-Lilley 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2015 16 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chief Executive Officer total remuneration 711 669 971 594 748 1,951 1,110 1,178 Actual bonus as a % of the maximum 47 62 53 59 100 80 92 Actual share award vesting as a % 1 2 of the maximum 83.3 62.9 100 100 50 100 1 No LTIP awards vested during FY 2012 13 or FY 2013 14.
2 Upon appointment, James Ward-Lilley received nil-cost options, certain of which vested immediately.
Refer to page 83 for further details.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Set out below is the change over the prior period in base salary, benefits, pension and annual performance bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and the Groups employees: Chris Blackwell Chief Executive Officer All employees 2015 16 000 Percentage change FY 2014 15 v FY 2015 16 Percentage change FY 2014 15 v FY 2015 16 Salary 428 7 3.7 Benefits 2 Bonus 100 5 Relative importance of Executive Director remuneration Total revenue, research and development expenditure and loss before tax have been selected as comparators for the employee costsasthese three financial measures are strong indicators of the activity within the Group and of its performance.
FY 2014 15 FY 2015 16 Change m m m Total employee remuneration 18.3 22.9 4.6 Revenue 58.0 72.0 14.0 Research and development expenditure 36.1 42.1 6.0 Loss profit before tax 6.2 1.9 4.3 Distributions to shareholders Statement of shareholder voting at 2015 AGM and GM At last years AGM and GM, held on 24 September 2015, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: For including Total votes cast Total votes discretionary excluding votes Votes cast including 1 votes Against withheld withheld votes withheld To approve the Remuneration report 196,352,212 114,686,619 311,038,831 11,682,386 322,721,217 % of votes cast 63.13 36.87 To approve the Directors Remuneration policy 313,344,761 10,569,776 323,914,537 15,513 323,930,050 % of votes cast 96.74 3.26 To approve the 2015 LTIP 307,865,652 16,053,141 323,918,793 11,257 323,930,050 % of votes cast 95.04 4.96 1 A vote that is withheld does not constitute a vote in law and has not therefore been included in the totals above.
As noted in the Committee Chairmans letter to shareholders, a number of investors did not feel able to support the vote on our Annual report on remuneration because they were concerned at the timing of the second part of a phased increase in Chris Blackwells salary during his final year at the Company.
As a result of this feedback from our investors we have consulted with our major shareholders, together with the Investment Association and ISS, to provide further details of the Committees thinking and to offer the chance to discuss any remaining concerns, and we have taken on board the feedback received for future reference.
In the forthcoming year, the Committee will continue to engage with major shareholders and their representative bodies regarding the development and implementation of Vecturas remuneration policy.
86 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 GOVERNANCE Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Base salaries Salary from 1 April 2016 or date of appointment Increase J Ward-Lilley 461,250 2.5% A J Oakley 281,875 T M Phillips 288,921 2.5% A Derodra 341,000 The Committee determined that a 2.5% increase was appropriate for the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operations Officer.
Thisincrease is below the overall increase of 3.5% across the wider workforce.
Andrew Oakleys salary has not been increased.
Non-Executive Directors fees Non-Executive and Chairman fees have been reviewed in light of the merger with Skyepharma and, subject to completion of the merger, itis intended that the following changes will be effective from 1 July 2016: Fee Increase Chairman 150,000 15.4% Vice Chairman 75,000 n a 1 Committee Chairs SID 58,000 10.6% Other NEDs 50,000 13.6% 1 In the event that an individual holds a Committee Chairmanship and holds the position of Senior Independent Dir ector they will receive an additional fee of 2,000 bringing the total maximum fee level to 60,000.
Contingent upon the completion of the merger, Frank Condella, who is currently the chairman of Skyepharma, will join the Vectura Board as Vice Chairman.
Frank Condella will receive fees of 75,000 in respect of this role.
Dr Thomas Werner will join the Vectura Board as a Non-Executive Director.
In addition, where a Non-Executive Director is required undertake transatlantic travel to attend a Board meeting an allowance of 2,000 isprovided.
Bonus The performance targets set for the performance bonus for future years will be disclosed in Vecturas 2016 17 Report and Accounts in accordance with the policy set out on pages 69 to 74 of this report.
Performance measures for continuing Executive Directors will include targets relating to creating strategic growth opportunities, securing existing pipeline value and achieving financial growth.
Proposed change of reporting date Upon completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC, it is intended that the Enlarged Group will operate to a December year-end and therefore annual bonus elements, will be effective and measured over the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 andbonuses will be payable in March 2017.
Executive Director bonuses will be calculated on actual base salary earned during the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016.
LTIP As in 2015, LTIP awards will be structured as follows: a three-year element representing 40% of the total award that vests after three years subject to performance measured over threefinancial years, with an additional one-year holding period applying to post-tax vested shares from the date of vesting: a five-year element representing 40% of the total award that vests after five years subject to service and performance measured overfive financial years: an additional kicker of up to 20% of the total award may vest for performance at or above the upper decile after five years: the performance conditions applying to both the three and five-year awards will be as follows: 50% relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services and real estate sector companies: and 50% relative TSR vs bespoke group of European pharmaceutical companies: and recovery and withholding conditions also apply.
Details of the relevant peer group for assessing performance are set out on page 81.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 87 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Unaudited information continued Termination arrangements for Andrew Oakley Andrew Oakley will step down from the role of Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC.
Hewill receive normal pay and benefits up to this date, and his 2015 16 bonus will be paid as normal in June.
He will receive a payment inlieu of notice comprising his salary for his twelve-month notice period and a sum representing the value of his pension contributions and benefits.
As a good leaver he will also be entitled to be paid a pro-rata bonus payment for the period worked in the financial year 2016 17.
This will be based on personal objectives linked to the completion and closing of the 2015 16 results, establishing targets and budgets for 2016 17 and the completion of the merger.
This bonus will be paid at the same time as the first tranche of his termination payments.
He will also be treated as a good leaver under the LTIP.
In light of the considerable delay in granting him his first LTIP award in late September 2015, which was due to the transition between Chief Executive Officers and the timing of the introduction of the new LTIP, hisvalue and committed contribution to the development of strategy, and his importance to the completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma, the Committee has determined that this award will be pro-rated based on the period between his joining the company on 1January 2015 and his departure.
The award will vest at the normal time subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
The company will contribute toward legal fees and provide an amount to assist with his outplacement costs.
Full details will be disclosed at the time of Andrews departure.
Remuneration for Andrew Derodra Andrew Derodra will take on the role of Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC.
He will receive a base salary of 341,000 per annum and he will participate in the Companys private medical, dental, health insurance and life assurance schemes inplace from time to time.
He will also receive coverage under the Groups Directors and Officers insurance policy.
TheCompany will provide pension contributions of 20% of salary and he will be eligible for holiday entitlement of 30 days plus bank holidays.
His bonus opportunity will be up to 100% of base salary pro-rata in the first year of appointment and he will be eligible for awards under the 2015 LTIP plan, with his first award granted as soon as is practicable post joining and on similar terms to the 2016 awards granted to other Executive Directors.
Participation in the bonus scheme and the 2015 LTIP will be subject to the rules of the schemes and the Companys remuneration policy in place from time to time.
On behalf of the Board Dr Susan Foden Chair of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2016 88 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
