GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present our Remuneration report which sets outthe remuneration arrangements for the Vectura Directors.
Dr Susan Foden Chair of the  Dear shareholder, On joining, James, along with the other executive directors, received As you may recall, 2015 16 was a year of major changes to the an award under the new LTIP.
This plan allows for award of performance senior executive team at Vectura.
Early in 2015, Chris Blackwell shares with a maximum face value at grant of 250% of salary.
announced his intention to stand down as Chief Executive after Wesee this as providing a real incentive to the senior team to twelve years of service and in September 2015, the Board appointed drivelong-term value for shareholders.
To recap, the Plans key James Ward-Lilley as his successor.
In addition, Dr Per-Olof Andersson features are as follows: joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015.
Award of performance shares with an initial maximum face The Board recognises that a number of investors did not feel able value at grant of 250% of salary.
Performance for both the three to support the vote on our Annual report on remuneration for and five-year base awards is measured against two relative Total 2014 15, on account of concerns over the timing of the second Shareholder Return TSR peer groups: the FTSE 250 Index excluding part of a phased increase in Chris Blackwells salary during his final financial services and real estate sector companies: and a bespoke year with the Company.
This was deemed important in ensuring his group of relevant European pharmaceutical companies.
continued full commitment until we had completed the recruitment The base award represents 200% of salary, half of which process for his successor.
At that time we could not predict how issubject to a three-year performance and vesting period long this process may take.
However, as a result of that feedback, andhalf of which is subject to a five-year performance we have communicated with our major shareholders together with andvesting period: the Investment Association and ISS, to provide further details of the Committees thinking at that time and to offer an opportunity to For the three-year element, 15% vests at median, increasing discuss any remaining concerns.
We have taken onboard the to 100% at upper quartile.
Similarly, for the five-year element, feedback received for future reference.
Details of Chris Blackwells 15% vests at median, increasing to 100% at the upper decile.
termination arrangements are described in full onpage 83 of the Annual Report on remuneration.
The additional kicker element of the award represents 50% ofsalary and this is subject to a five-year performance We were pleased with the level of support for the new Remuneration vestingperiod: policy and Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP presented to shareholders inSeptember 2015.
The Remuneration policy was approved with This element of the award may vest at five years for 96.7% of the votes for the resolution and the new LTIP was performance at or above the upper decile.
approved with a 95% level of support.
A one-year retention period is required on shares vesting under Since that time, the business has moved on and we are delighted the three-year element of the Plan.
In addition, the level of the that James Ward-Lilley has joined the Company as Chief Executive share ownership guidelines was increased from 100% to 200% Officer.
As part of the terms of his recruitment, the Company replaced ofsalary under this new policy to reflect the increase in his existing bonus and his 2013 and 2014 entitlements under long-term incentive opportunity.
Awards under the share plans were replaced with awards of equivalent value over Vectura shares.
Inaccordance with our policy, the terms of these buyout arrangements were designed to replicate, to the extent possible, the value of the awards forfeited, their degree of conditionality andthe form of payment whilst providing immediate alignment with Vecturas shareholders.
Details of James ongoing remuneration package and these buyout arrangements are provided later in thisreport.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 67 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Given the significant changes made in FY 2015 16, the forthcoming In March 2016, the Company announced a recommended all year is intended to be a year of relative stability with no changes to sharemerger with Skyepharma PLC.
Andrew Oakley will leave Vectura at completion and will be replaced as Chief Financial Officer the remuneration policy and only minor amendments in its operation, in respect of increases to salary and Non-Executive Director fee by Skyepharmas current Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Derodra.
Asummary of Andrew Oakleys termination arrangements is levels and to take account of the Companys proposed change offinancial year end.
provided in the Annual report on remuneration and full details willbe disclosed at the time that his employment ends.
The package As reported in the financial review set out on pages 44 to 46, the which has been conditionally offered to Andrew Derodra is also Group has enjoyed and continues to see strong revenue and EBITDA disclosed in this Report on Remuneration.
In addition, contingent growth during as a result of significant development milestone upon completion of the merger, Frank Condella will join the Vectura achievements and sustainable and growing royalty revenues.
Details of the fees payable to Frank Condella These financial and strategic successes have been delivered are also disclosed in this Annual report on remuneration.
alongside significant returns to shareholders over the medium Following completion of the proposed merger, the Remuneration tolong term.
These successes are reflected in the variable pay Committee of the combined entity intends to review the remuneration outcomes for 2015 16 as follows: arrangements for Vecturas senior executive team including the The annual bonus payments to Executive Directors for the Executive Directors in order to ensure that they remain appropriate financial year to 31 March 2016 were between 89% and 92% of given the Companys increased size and complexity.
Details of the outcome of this review will be disclosed to shareholders in next base salary, reflecting a year of significant performance against years report.
agreed financial and strategic targets.
Royalty revenues and EBITDA have grown strongly as market sales from partnered Structure of this report products continue to grow and the announcement of the This letter and the Annual report on remuneration will be subject to proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC represents a significant an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
There is no vote on the Policy step in delivery of the Groups strategy.
An abridged version of the Policy report with key elements of the Policy included in full is set out for reference on the LTIP awards granted on 18 September 2012 were eligible to following pages, reflecting the new LTIP and Remuneration policy vestduring the year.
Half of the award was subject to relative approved by shareholders in 2015.
TSR performance measured against the FTSE SmallCap Index andhalf was subject to relative TSR performance against I hope that you remain supportive of our remuneration policy and selected constituents of the Euro Stoxx Pharmaceuticals and will approve the resolution on the Annual report on remuneration Biotechnology Index over three years to 17 September 2015. at the AGM.
TSR growth over the period of 137% resulted in all of the Yours sincerely SmallCap element vesting.
However, Vecturas TSR was just below the median of the Euro Stoxx peer group and so none of that element of the award vested.
A detailed breakdown of the targets set and the payments awarded Dr Susan Foden under the annual bonus scheme and the LTIP is set out on pages 78 Chair of the Remuneration Committee to 81.
25 May 2016 The salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed early in 2016, with agreed changes taking effect from 1 April.
The salaries of James Ward-Lilley and Trevor Phillips were each increased by 2.5%to 461,250 and 288,922 respectively.
This was below theaverage increase for the general workforce.
Andrew Oakleys salary remains at 281,875.
68 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
