Governance 79 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Overview Dear shareholder, On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2016.
The Remuneration Report is split into two sections, a new Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration.
Further details of the new Remuneration Policy which will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM, are given below.
The Annual Report on Directors Remuneration sets out details of the pay received by the Directors in 2016 and explains how we intend to apply our Remuneration Policy in 2017.
It will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Review of Remuneration Policy and Implementation in 2017 This year we are required to table our Remuneration Policy for shareholder approval at the AGM.
This will be the second triennial vote on the Remuneration Policy since that requirement was introduced.
As a consequence, during 2016, the Remuneration Committee conducted a review of the Directors Remuneration Policy, to ensure that it continues to support delivery of our strategy.
Our overarching philosophy for remuneration continues to be to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre necessary to implement our business strategy successfully.
In setting the policy, we aim to provide incentives that encourage sustainable growth, but do not reward underperformance or incentivise poor behaviours.
The Remuneration Committee also understands that the incentive structures we employ need to support the delivery of long-term value to our shareholders.
Consequently, our Remuneration Policy is designed to reward the achievements of Executive Directors when deserved, by providing a meaningful portion of remuneration linked to performance but subject to clawback.
During the year, the Committee considered each of the elements of our existing remuneration structure for Directors.
We spent time discussing the views of our shareholders and re ecting on the numerous recent developments in governance guidance.
We received advice from the Remuneration Committee adviser, Deloitte, and considered the pay and employment conditions of other Vesuvius employees.
We concluded that the existing combination of variable incentives an Annual Incentive and a Long Term Incentive Plan awarding Performance Shares remained the most suitable mechanism for compensating Executive Directors.
Consequently, our new policy does not differ materially from the existing policy.
Our Annual Incentive Plan is clear and simple to operate, and incentivises Directors to achieve key near-term financial and strategic objectives for the Group.
We propose to retain a policy that allows the Committee exibility to set these objectives in accordance with the Groups speci c priorities each year.
In 2016, 80% of this incentive was focused on Group headline earnings per share, adjusted for working capital performance, with the remaining 20% based on the achievement of personal objectives.
For 2017 the Committee has decided to increase the emphasis on cash generation, so that this year the Executive Directors annual incentives will be based 60% on Group headline earnings per share, 20% on the Groups cash conversion fide ned as operating cash ow divided by trading pro t and 20% on speci ed personal objectives.
We believe this set of metrics will focus the Executive Directors on delivering key objectives for the Group.
In order to further align the interests of our Directors with those of our shareholders, we are introducing in our Remuneration Policy a requirement for deferral of a proportion normally 33% of the Annual Incentive into awards over shares for three years.
We trust our shareholders will welcome this enhancement.
The Vesuvius Share Plan VSP aligns the Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders through the delivery of shares, and rewarding them for growth in shareholder value and earnings.
The VSP allows the Company to make a variety of share-based awards, although since its inception we have only made annual awards of Performance Shares under the plan.
Having considered the alternatives of restricted share and deferred share awards, the Committee concluded Performance Share awards should be retained, where outcomes rely on earnings growth and share price performance, aligning Executive Directors remuneration with the Companys long-term objectives.
Other performance conditions were considered, including those raised by shareholders during our investor relations meetings.
However, having examined the alternatives, we continue to believe that earnings per share EPS and relative total shareholder return TSR as performance conditions are widely supported, and represent the most appropriate measures for assessing the overall long-term performance of the Group.
The principal elements of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors are also applied to other members of the Group Executive Committee ensuring a cohesive remuneration structure across the senior management team.
All members of the Group Executive Committee are subject to the same two to three-year salary review cycle as the Executive Directors, and all participate in the Annual Incentive and Vesuvius Share Plans.
Whilst the level of awards payable under these plans varies, the whole team is incentivised to pursue common strategic objectives for the Group.
Vesuvius plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Overview continued As part of the review of the Remuneration Policy, we also considered the market competitiveness of our reward package.
The broad international scale and nature of the Companys operations require experienced leadership.
Whilst recognising the in ationary effect of using market data, the Committee also needs to ensure the Group can acquire and motivate appropriate talent to successfully implement our business strategy.
Given that there is not a clear comparator group of companies for Vesuvius, this was judged in the context of other FTSE 250 companies and relevant international sector-speci c companies to reach a rounded judgement.
Following this review, the Committee concluded that the new Policy should specify the same bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors 62.5% of base salary for on-target performance and 125% at maximum.
The previous policy differentiated between the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
Other than the deferral detailed above, no other material changes to the current policy are proposed.
In line with the Groups longer-term approach of reviewing the salaries of Executive Directors and senior executives every two to three years, there are no changes to either of the Executive Directors salaries in 2017.
The Chief Executives incentive opportunity in 2017 will also remain unchanged at 125% and 200% of salary for Annual Incentive and Performance Shares respectively.
However, in the light of the Chief Financial Of cers contribution since his appointment in November 2015, the Committee has concluded that in 2017 he should be awarded Performance Shares equivalent in value to 150% of his base salary 2016: 125% of base salary.
This remains within the 200% maximum speci ed by the pre-existing policy.
In addition his Annual Incentive opportunity for 2017 should be aligned with that of the Chief Executives at 125% of his base salary 2016: 100% of base salary.
The Committee believes that the Chief Financial Of cer has made a strong start within the organisation and to recognise this development considered it appropriate to increase his variable remuneration.
Performance in 2016 As described in the Strategic Report, the Companys end-markets remained subdued in 2016.
However, the delivery of self-help and restructuring measures bene ted margins across the Group, further details of which can be found in the Chief Executives Strategic Review and in the Operational Reviews on pages 12 to 18 and 36 to 49, respectively.
In 2016, Annual Incentive awards for the Executive Directors were based 80% on Group headline EPS, with an adjustment for working capital, and 20% on personal objectives.
Our headline EPS of 28.3p matched target, but the Company did not meet the threshold working capital target so the financial payout element was reduced by 10%.
This results in awards of 44.6% and 35.6% of base salary for Franois Wanecq and Guy Young, respectively, in respect of the financial performance metrics.
In addition, we assessed each Executive Directors completion of the personal objectives they were set for 2016, awarding Mr Wanecq and Mr Young, 18.25% and 15.50% of their maximum entitlements of 25% and 20%, respectively.
As a result, the overall Annual Incentive payable to Mr Wanecq for 2016 is 63% of base salary and Mr Young, 51% of base salary, against target payouts of 62.5% and 50%, respectively, and maximum bonus opportunities of 125% and 100%, respectively.
The performance period for the awards made under the Vesuvius Share Plan in 2014 matured at the end of December 2016.
Performance was measured equally by reference to TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts and headline EPS growth above compound annual GDP growth over the three-year period.
Relative TSR performance was below median and therefore the TSR target was not met.
The EPS growth target over the three-year period was also not met.
Therefore, these awards lapse in their entirety.
Shareholders Views The Committee noted that 40,836,586 votes 17.14% were cast against the advisory resolution on the 2015 Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM, which predominantly re ected the votes of one signi cant shareholder.
During the year, Directors had discussed remuneration and other matters with this shareholder and noted their views, which principally relate to concerns with the use of TSR and EPS as performance metrics under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
After deliberation, the Committee remains satis ed that preserving the existing criteria for the VSP in the Remuneration Policy being proposed for approval at the 2017 AGM continues to promote the long-term success of the Company, and that the performance-related elements of remuneration are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
I remain keen to hear shareholders views on remuneration matters including comments on any elements of our 2017 Remuneration Policy and look forward to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and their continued support for our Directors Remuneration Report resolution at the AGM.
Yours sincerely Jane Hinkley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 2 March 2017
