Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report Introduction to the Remuneration Committee Structure of Report Dear Shareholder At a Glance 88 Directors Remuneration Policy 89 As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased Annual Report on Remuneration 97 to present our 2016 Remuneration Report incorporating our Single Figure Table 99 Annual Report on Remuneration and Remuneration Policy which are both being tabled for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
Committee Members Melanie Gee Chair Alan Ferguson Mary Jo Jacobi Rick Menell In recent years the Company has operated in difficult and volatile markets.
The proposed 2016 remuneration policy sought to increase managements line of sight to reward and to create greater alignment between executives interests and those of our shareholders.
Despite extensive consultation, the remuneration policy tabled for approval at our 2016 AGM did not receive a sufficient level of support from shareholders to be approved.
As a result, throughout 2016 we continued to operate under the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
This can be found on our website at www.
We have recently undertaken a renewed shareholder consultation exercise to ensure that we fully understand the ongoing concerns and expectations of our shareholders.
Recent Board Changes After 10 years on the Board, Keith Cochrane stepped down as Chief Executive, and Jon Stanton Group Finance Director since 2010 succeeded Keith from 1 October 2016.
As announced on 3 October 2016, John Heasley succeeded Jon Stanton as Chief Financial Officer with effect from that date.
Dean Jenkins, Chief Operating Officer, stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
Jon Stanton and John Heasley were appointed to their new roles on salaries of 650,000 and 400,000 respectively, which are lower than the previous incumbents.
As required, details of the remuneration arrangements for departing Directors were disclosed when agreed and have been included in this Remuneration Report.
All of those terms were in line with current corporate governance expectations, except for one area.
In accordance with Keith Cochranes legacy service contract entered into on 19 February 2010, he will remain eligible for consideration for the Company performance element of the annual bonus 80% of total bonus in respect of part of the 2017 financial year, subject to evaluation of Company performance objectives on the same basis as for other Executive Directors.
Any payment will be subject to time pro-rating to 28 July 2017 and to mitigation.
The Remuneration Committee is obligated to honour this term which is part of his service contract and it is fully in line with our approved policy.
He will not be entitled to a pay-out in relation to the personal element 20% of total bonus.
To ensure alignment with market practice, no such terms are included in the contracts of the newly appointed Executive Directors.
2016 Performance and Incentive Payouts When determining bonus payouts in respect of 2016, the Committee took into account a number of factors including the overall performance of the business, external factors and alignment to the Companys risk appetite.
For 2016, 80% of the total bonus was based on performance against three key indicators of Group performance Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA, order input and cash flow.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 86 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance During 2016, external factors, including the sustained downturn in oil and gas markets continued to have a significant impact on the Company.
As the year progressed, higher commodity prices gave rise to signs of improvement in our core markets.
Performance achieved against all three financial measures was between threshold and target resulting in an outcome of 24.7% for this element.
Full details of achievement against the personal element 20% of total bonus are provided on pages 101 to 103.
When approving the bonus payments, the Committee considers the overall performance of the business and alignment with the shareholder experience.
A number of warranty, associated inventory and contract liabilities and other unprovided liabilities, totalling 17m, were identified in our China business during the period primarily relating to Trio which was acquired for $220m in 2014.
In light of this, the Committee agreed that it would be appropriate to apply a discretionary downward adjustment of 10% to the bonus outcome for those Executive Directors who were in role at the time.
Further details are provided on page 103.
The 2014 LTIP awards lapsed as the performance targets measured over the three year period to 31 December 2016 were not met.
Proposed Approach for 2017 Since his appointment in the autumn of 2016, our new Chief Executive Officer Jon Stanton has undertaken a review of Weirs strategic direction.
In light of this, the Committee decided to delay a detailed review of Directors pay arrangements until after the CEO concluded his review.
The refreshed strategy was announced as part of the preliminary results and is detailed in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
As such, the remuneration policy we are submitting for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM contains no significant changes to the policy under which we currently operate, and which was approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
Only minor changes have been made to ensure that the policy is in line with shareholder expectations and updated investor guidance.
For 2017, no increases are proposed to salaries or any other element of remuneration.
We will continue to operate salary and benefits, our annual bonus plan with deferral and our LTIP which measures performance over three years and is subject to a two year holding period.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual bonus and LTIP performance measures and determined that no changes should be made for 2017.
The measures comprising the annual bonus will continue to be NPBTA 40%, cash flow 20%, order input 20% and personal strategic objectives 20%.
Under the LTIP, we will continue to use an equal weighting of Earnings Per Share EPS, Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return On Capital Employed ROCE.
During the last quarter of 2016, the Committee worked with our Chairman and new Chief Executive Officer to significantly refine our approach to target setting for the personal performance element of the annual bonus.
This refined approach will also be used for all Group Executive members and will facilitate a more holistic and evidence based approach to assessing achievement against these targets.
Setting targets for both the annual bonus and LTIP has continued to present some challenges given the trading environment.
The emerging optimism around the recovery of our end markets has, however, been taken into account alongside our strategic plan when approving both shortand long-term targets.
The Committee is satisfied that the targets under both incentive plans are stretching and will only result in payouts for sustained value creation.
Achievement against the targets will be fully disclosed in the relevant Remuneration Report.
Proposed Approach for 2018 The Committee intends to conduct a more comprehensive review of the remuneration policy during 2017.
This review will help us determine if the policy remains fit for purpose in terms of suitably aligning our executives with the longer-term performance of the business based on the strategic priorities of our new CEO and his team.
The Committee feels that undertaking this wholesale review of the remuneration framework is the most appropriate course of action to ensure alignment of the framework with the Companys refreshed strategic direction.
If any major changes are proposed following this review, a new remuneration policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM, prior to which we will consult with our shareholders.
Next Steps We are committed to maintaining an open and honest dialogue with our various stakeholders.
Our overarching objective is to establish a remuneration policy that works for both shareholders and the business, and I encourage shareholders to get in touch with me through our Company Secretary to give me, and the Remuneration Committee, the benefit of their views.
Melanie Gee Chair of the Remuneration Committee 22 February 2017 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 87 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued At a Glance Fixed Pay Implementation in 2016 Proposed Approach for 2017 New incumbents appointed on salaries lower than previous No salary increases proposed: incumbents.
Salaries effective from appointment: CEO 650,000 CEO 650,000 CFO 400,000 CFO 400,000 No change to pension contributions or supplement of 12% p. a.
Pension contributions or supplement of 12% p. a. in line with which is in line with other senior UK employees.
Annual Bonus Plan Implementation in 2016 Proposed Approach for 2017 Full disclosure of performance outcomes on pages 100 to 103.
No change proposed to maximum opportunity: CEO 150% of salary Total Bonus Existing Directors CFO 125% of salary CEO 255,838 38.2% of maximum.
30% deferred into shares for three years.
No change to performance measures or weightings: 40% NPBTA Total Bonus Former Directors 20% cash flow Keith Cochrane 448,294 39.8% of maximum.
20% order input Dean Jenkins 202,067 35.5% of maximum.
20% personal objectives Full retrospective disclosure of financial and non-financial targets will be provided in next years Report.
Long Term Incentive Plan Implementation in 2016 Proposed Approach for 2017 Awards based on: No change proposed to maximum opportunity: 33.3% EPS CEO 250% of salary 33.3% ROCE CFO 200% of salary 33.3% relative TSR No change to performance measures or weightings: Two year holding period.
33.3% EPS The threshold level of performance for the 2014 Awards was 33.3% ROCE not met.
Therefore all awards lapsed in full.
33.3% relative TSR Increase in stretch of targets for EPS and ROCE targets.
Shareholding Guidelines No change to the current share ownership levels.
Executive Directors 150% of base salary.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 88 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Policy Table Subject to approval at the AGM, this remuneration policy will apply from the date of the AGM, 27 April 2017.
No major changes have been made to the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Minor changes have been made to align the policy with updated investor guidance.
The Groups overarching remuneration policy is to ensure that remuneration supports the Groups strategy and business objectives.
The Committee has adopted a set of remuneration principles that are used as a basis against which remuneration arrangements have been established that should enable the Group to: Attract, motivate and retain senior executives of the required talent to manage and develop the Groups activities successfully for the benefit of shareholders.
Drive appropriate behaviours that are in line with the Groups culture and focus senior executives on critical business objectives by rewarding them against challenging performance criteria.
Clearly align remuneration outcomes with the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Base Salary How the Element Supports Our Remuneration Principles Maximum Limit The provision of a competitive base salary as part of an overall Whilst there is no stipulated maximum salary increase, increases remuneration package enables the Group to attract and retain will be determined taking into account the salary increases applied talented leaders.
to UK employees, or the relevant jurisdiction if an Executive Director is based outside the UK.
Operation and Recovery Provisions If Applicable Typically reviewed annually, with increases normally taking effect Different increases may be awarded at the Committees discretion from 1 April.
Set by reference to market practice for similar roles in instances such as where: in a peer group of companies of a similar size and complexity: there has been a significant increase in the size, complexity personal performance: the wider employee context: and economic or value of the Group: and labour market conditions.
there has been a change in role or responsibility: the individual is relatively new in the role and the salary level has been set to reflect this: and the individual is positioned below relevant market levels.
Any significant salary increases will be appropriately explained.
Benefits and Pension How the Element Supports Our Remuneration Principles Maximum Limit The provision of a competitive benefits offering is part of an The value of relevant benefits will be determined by the cost overall remuneration package enabling the Group to attract of the provision of insured products.
As the cost of providing such and retain talented leaders.
insurance benefits varies according to premium rates and the cost of other benefits is dependent on market rates and other factors, Operation and Recovery Provisions If Applicable there is no formal maximum monetary value of benefits, other than Benefits include, but are not limited to: Group health care: car allowance: the car allowance which will normally be no greater than 20,000 travel allowance: liability insurance and death in service insurance.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs such as The Executive Directors participation in any all-employee share travel, accommodation or education allowances if an Executive plans will be limited by the maximum set by relevant legislation.
Director is required to relocate and pay additional tax arising due to an international assignment, and may also provide for long-term Executive Directors are eligible for a contribution into the pension disability benefits.
Additional benefits and any associated tax may plan, or an equivalent cash allowance, or any other arrangement the be provided where required by legislation or to align the package Committee considers has the same economic benefit, of up to 12% with relevant market practice.
Executive Directors will also be entitled to take part in any all-employee Performance Measures benefits and share plans on the same basis as other employees.
Pension policy is aligned to senior individuals within the wider workforce.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 89 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Directors Policy Table continued Annual Bonus How the Element Supports Our Remuneration Principles Maximum Limit To reward the achievement of stretching Group and individual The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150% of salary.
For 2017, performance on an annual basis, supporting our strategy of the maximum opportunity for the Executive Directors other than the delivering sustainable growth in our key markets.
Chief Executive Officer is 125% of salary.
Operation and Recovery Provisions If Applicable Performance Measures Awards are based on performance each year.
Measures and Annual bonuses will be subject to such financial, strategic and or targets are set by the Committee and payout levels are determined personal targets as the Committee considers appropriate.
The by the Committee based on performance against those targets.
measures, as well as the weightings of these measures, will depend on the strategic focus of the Company in any given year.
Typically 30% of any bonus will be deferred into an award of Weir Group shares which will normally be released after three Financial measures will normally be used to calculate at least 50% years.
Executive Directors are entitled to receive the value of the of the bonus, with the remainder being based on strategic and or dividends payable on any deferred bonus awards that vest up to personal goals.
This value may be calculated assuming that the dividends were notionally reinvested in the Companys shares.
No more than 20% of the annual bonus will be based on personal performance objectives.
Malus and clawback provisions may be applied in the event of material restatement or correction of financial statements of All financial metrics are calibrated with payment on a straight line the Group or a subsidiary division, gross misconduct leading to basis between threshold up to 20% of maximum bonus payable termination for cause, or reputational damage causing significant and stretch.
damage to Weir and clearly attributable to the individual.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee has discretion to alter the measures and or targets during the performance period if it believes the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate.
The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to alter the payout levels of an award if it believes this will better reflect the underlying performance of the Company, but in no circumstances will the award exceed the maximum bonus potential.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 90 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP How the Element Supports Our Remuneration Principles Maximum Limit To motivate Executive Directors to achieve long term objectives The normal maximum award in respect of any financial year will be which are critical to the successful delivery of our strategy.
over shares worth 250% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors.
In line with the rules of Operation and Recovery Provisions If Applicable the plan, the Committee can grant awards of up to 300% of salary in For Executive Directors, awards may vest dependent on the exceptional circumstances.
achievement of performance conditions set by the Committee measured over a performance period of at least three years.
Performance Measures Vested shares for Executive Directors are then normally subject The performance measures may be a combination of financial, to a two-year holding period.
share price based measures and or strategic based measures.
Executive Directors are entitled to receive the value of the dividends At least 50% will be based on financial and or share price based payable on any LTIP awards up to the point of vesting, or where measures.
The measures and their weightings will be disclosed awards are subject to a holding period, the end of the holding period.
prospectively in the annual report on remuneration each year.
This value may be calculated assuming that the dividends were notionally reinvested in the Companys shares Up to 25% of the award vests at threshold and 100% at maximum.
Malus and clawback provisions may be applied in the event of: The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to alter a discovery of a material misstatement in the audited consolidated the payout levels of an award at the end of the performance period accounts of the Company or audited accounts of any Group Company: if it believes this will better reflect the underlying performance of action or conduct of an award holder which in the reasonable the Company, but in no circumstances will exceed the maximum opinion of the Committee is gross misconduct: LTIP potential.
events or behaviour by an award holder which has a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group Company where the Committee is satisfied that the award holder was responsible for the reputational damage or the reputational damage is attributable to the award holder : or the information used by the Committee to determine the number of shares over which an award is granted or vests is found to be materially incorrect, mistaken or misrepresented to the advantage of the award holder.
Shareholding Guidelines How the Element Supports Our Remuneration Principles The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually and has To ensure the interests of the Executive Directors remain in line the flexibility in the application of this Policy to take into account with those of shareholders.
Operation and Recovery Provisions If Applicable Expected Level of Share Ownership Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding in the The shareholding guideline is as follows: Company over a five-year period.
Chief Executive Officer: 200% of base salary.
Other Executive Directors: 150% of base salary.
It is intended that this is met by Executive Directors retaining a minimum of 50% of net shares, delivered under the deferred bonus and LTIP, after the deduction of applicable taxes, until the requirement is satisfied.
All shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director, including shares held by a connected person and shares subject to a restriction on sale count towards this guideline.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 91 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Directors Policy Table continued Non-Executive Directors Fees How the Element Supports Our Remuneration Principles Maximum Limit To attract and retain experienced and skilled Non-Executive Directors.
Increases are normally effective in April and any planned increases in fees will take into account general increases across the Group, Operation and Recovery Provisions If Applicable along with market practice.
Fees will normally be reviewed annually by reference to companies of similar size and complexity, economic and labour market The maximum limit of Non-Executive Director fees is prescribed conditions, as well as time commitment and responsibilities.
in the Articles of Association.
Additional fees may be made available to Non-Executive Directors, Performance Measures where appropriate, to reflect any additional time commitment The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors or duties.
The Company may reimburse Non-Executive Directors for any business related costs such as travel and accommodation costs incurred in connection with their duties and any associated tax on these costs.
Notes to the Policy Table 1.
Performance Measures and Targets Performance measures and targets under the annual bonus are designed to reward the achievement of stretching Group and personal performance goals for the current year, supporting our strategy of delivering sustainable growth in our key markets.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee.
The performance targets for the financial element of the annual bonus are set in the context of external consensus forecasts and the internal budget.
Performance measures and targets under the LTIP are designed to incentivise Executive Directors to achieve growth through long-term performance measures which are critical to delivering our strategy.
In setting targets the Committee considers the Companys operating environment and internal and external growth forecasts.
Common Award Terms Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this report may: be granted as forfeitable or conditional share awards or nil-cost or market value options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect: have any performance conditions applicable to them varied or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine that the performance conditions no longer achieve their original purpose, the varied or substituted performance condition would be not less challenging to satisfy but for the event in question: be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, special dividend or other event that may affect the current or future value of awards.
Legacy Arrangements The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before AGM 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholderapproved Directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 92 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director, and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Approach The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of an Executive Director externally is to take account of the individuals remuneration package in their role prior to joining The Weir Group PLC: the market positioning of the remuneration package against the local market: and not to pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Service Contracts To recruit the best executives, the Committee may in the future agree a contractual notice period with the Executive Director which initially exceeds the standard 12 months, particularly if it is necessary to attract executives who will be required to relocate their families.
This will reduce to a 12-month rolling notice period once the individual is 12 months from the end of their initial notice period.
Remuneration The salary level, benefits, pension, annual bonus and LTIP participation will be in line with the policy table on the previous page.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding any buy-out awards will not exceed the overall limit set out in the policy table 450% of salary.
Buy-out Awards The Committee will consider what buy-out awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation and benefit items that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out awards taking into account relevant factors including any performance conditions, the form in which it is to be paid i. e. cash, shares, etc.
and the timeframe of awards.
Buy-out awards will generally be made on a like-for-like basis and will be no more generous in quantum than the awards being forfeited.
Other The Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain mobility or relocation costs, including but not limited to, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the Companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives.
The Committee may also agree that the Company meets the cost of relevant professional fees.
The Company shall reimburse the Executive Director for all reasonable expenses and associated tax incurred as part of their recruitment.
On the appointment of a new Executive Director through an internal promotion, the Company will honour existing remuneration arrangements made prior to and not in contemplation of promotion, and those arrangements will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines for each element of remuneration as originally set, notwithstanding that this may be inconsistent with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Service Contracts and Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The Boards policy on service contracts, letters of appointment and termination arrangements is set out below.
This includes a description of any obligation on the Company contained or proposed to be in all service contracts or letters of appointment.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Executive Directors Service Contracts As an overriding principle, it is the Boards policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee, when determining what compensation, if any, should properly be paid by the Company to the departing Executive Director, will give full consideration to the obligation and ability of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 93 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Service Contracts and Policy on Payment for Loss of Office continued The table below sets out the Companys policy on Executive Director service contracts.
Contract Executive Director Contract commencement date Commencement Date Jon Stanton 28 July 2016 John Heasley 3 October 2016 Unexpired Term The unexpired term of all Executive Directors service contracts is 12 months.
It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors have rolling service contracts.
Notice Period The current Executive Directors have service contracts that may be terminated by the Company or by the individual on giving 12 months notice.
The Companys policy on the setting of contractual notice periods for Executive Directors is to set a notice period of no more than 12 months for both parties, although the Committee may in the future agree contractual notice periods which initially exceed 12 months in the circumstances described above in the Companys approach to recruitment remuneration.
Contractual Payments Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice PILON at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The Executive Directors service contracts include PILON clauses providing for the calculation of PILON at 1.2 times gross salary to reflect the value of salary and contractual benefits during such period.
PILONs would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full 12 months of their notice period.
Contracts would also allow for phased payments on termination, which allows for mitigation which can take into account any earnings from alternative employment, including bonus and commission.
In the event of termination of employment the Committee may authorise such payments for statutory entitlements whether arising in the UK or other relevant jurisdictions as necessary.
In the event of a settlement agreement, the Committee may authorise payments it considers reasonable in the settlement of potential legal claims as well as reimbursement of reasonable fees for legal and or tax advice in connection with such an agreement.
Annual Bonus If the Executive Director is dismissed for gross misconduct then all entitlements will be forfeited, including any unvested deferred bonus awards.
In all other departure cases, existing rights are retained in respect of any deferred bonus and vesting will take place at the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply to deferred bonus awards.
An Executive Director will only be eligible to earn a bonus if he or she is an employee of the Group on the date that the Company approves the bonus outcome although, at the discretion of the Committee, a pro-rated payment payable in such proportions of cash and shares as the Committee may determine may be earned by an Executive Director who has ceased employment prior to this date, subject to assessment of the bonus targets.
LTIP The treatment of unvested awards for Executive Directors ceasing to be employees of the Group will depend on whether or not they are a good leaver.
Good leaver reasons have been determined as retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, the sale of the individuals employing company or business, or other circumstances that the Committee determines.
Where an Executive Director ceases to be an employee for a good leaver reason before the end of the vesting period, unvested awards will normally continue and vest on the normal vesting date, taking into account any applicable performance conditions over the normal performance period and pro-rated for the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
Awards subject to a holding period will continue to be subject to that holding period as if the Executive Director had not ceased employment, except in the case of death, or in such other circumstances as the Committee may determine, when the holding period will end at that time.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to release shares to good leavers before the end of the vesting period or before the end of any holding period.
If it permits this to take place during the normal vesting period, an unvested award will vest to the extent the Committee determines, taking into account, unless it determines otherwise, any performance conditions and the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
On death, the award vests at the date of death on the basis set out for good leavers above and can be exercised for a period of 12 months by the deceaseds estate.
Other leavers have a period of three months to exercise their options unless this period is extended by the Committee.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated for a reason other than a good leaver reason or on death, any unvested LTIP awards will lapse.
Awards remain subject to the operation of malus or clawback provisions.
All-Employee Plans In the event of an Executive Directors termination of employment or a change of control or similar situation, the rules of any all-employee share plans will apply in accordance with applicable legislation.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 94 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Change in Control No Executive Director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Any right to a bonus would normally be determined by the Committee up to the expected date of change of control taking into account both performance and the period of the elapsed financial year.
Deferred bonus shares will vest on a change of control.
Awards granted under the LTIP may vest on a change of control and certain other corporate events such as a demerger or special dividend at the Committees discretion.
The extent to which unvested awards vest will be determined by the Committee, taking into account, unless it determines otherwise, the performance conditions and the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The holding period applicable to any LTIP awards will also end at the time of the corporate event.
The Committee has discretion to allow payment of reasonable fees incurred by Executive Directors to take legal and or tax advice on the effect of corporate restructurings or transactions on their service agreements.
Relocation If an Executive Director is relocated to a country where he would suffer a tax or regulatory disadvantage by holding his awards, his deferred bonus and LTIP awards may vest early to the extent determined by the Committee.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual entitlement to a termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The details, including notice periods, contained in the letters of appointment in relation to the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders.
With the exception of the Chairman, the Company policy for notice periods for future Non-Executive Directors is for no notice period by the individual and a notice period of six months by the Company.
This is in line with the details in the table for Non-Executive Directors appointed since 2011.
None of the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors have provisions in their letters of appointment that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Non-Executive Director Contract commencement date Expiry of current term Notice period by the individual Notice period by the Company Charles Berry 1 January 2014 April 2017 6 months 6 months Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 April 2017 6 months Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 April 2017 6 months Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 April 2017 6 months Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2016 April 2017 6 months Rick Menell 1 April 2009 April 2017 6 months 6 months John Mogford 1 June 2008 April 2017 6 months 6 months The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 95 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Illustrations of Application of Remuneration Policy A key element of the Companys remuneration Policy is to provide a significant part of potential reward through performance-based incentive plans.
Set out below is the reward mix for the Executive Directors at minimum performance, on-target performance and maximum performance as proposed under the future policy table.
Jon Stanton Jon Stanton Illustration of package value 000s Illustration of package composition % Long-term incentive 00 4,000 100 100% 38% 49% Short-term incentive 1,625,000 Fixed element 75 27% 812,500 29% 2,000 50 975,000 35% 585,000 25 22% 0 0 749,830 749,830 749,830 0 Minimum On-target Maximum 0 Minimum On-target Maximum John Heasley John Heasley Illustration of package value 000s Illustration of package composition % 00 2,000 100 100% 35% 45% 800,000 75 26% 400,000 29% 1,000 50 500,000 39% 300,000 26% 25 0 0 452,329 452,329 452,329 0 Minimum On-target Maximum 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Notes Element of package Assumptions used Fixed pay Base salary is shown based on the salary effective 1 April 2017.
Benefits are shown based on 2016 benefits received as per the single total figure of remuneration.
Pension is shown based on the 2017 employer contribution or cash allowance rates.
Annual bonus Minimum: no bonus is earned.
On-target: 60% of the maximum bonus has been earned.
Maximum: 100% of the bonus has been earned based on 2017 maximum bonus opportunities.
LTIP Minimum: no bonus is earned.
On-target: 50% of the LTIP award vests.
Maximum: 100% of the LTIP award vests based on 2017 LTIP grant sizes.
In line with the relevant regulations, these scenarios do not assume any share price growth or dividend equivalent payments on deferred bonus or LTIP awards.
Stakeholder Considerations Material Factors Taken into Account When Setting the Remuneration Policy The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the business and is keen to engage where appropriate on key areas of policy setting and implementation.
The Committee has considered the following in developing the policy: i Shareholder Engagement The Committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with the Companys shareholders.
This can take a variety of forms, such as: meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular shareholder groups: other dialogue to update shareholders and take their feedback on planned refinements to arrangements: and the votes on the Directors remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In the event of a significant vote against any element of the Directors Remuneration Report by shareholders, a summary of the reasons for those votes, as far as known to the Directors, and any actions taken by the Committee in response to those concerns will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
ii The Wider Employee Context The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group, although when setting the Directors remuneration policy, the wider employee group is not consulted.
The Company looks to engage with employees on a range of employment matters, both globally and at a business unit level.
We are continually working to improve employee engagement, which includes the use of blogs, employee surveys and the company intranet.
In determining the adjustments to the Executive Directors and Group Executive salaries, the Committee considers the increases to pay levels across the broader employee population.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 96 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration Statement of Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy in 2017 As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairs statement, we are seeking shareholder approval for a new Directors remuneration policy at the AGM on 27 April 2017.
On the basis that this is approved by shareholders, the policy will be operated in 2017 as set out below.
Executive Directors Element Operation of the element Base salary The Committee reviewed salary levels and has made the following salary decisions effective 1 April 2017.
2017 2016 salary salary Percentage change Jon Stanton 650,000 650,000 0% John Heasley 400,000 400,000 0% Increases were made to the salaries during the year to reflect their change in roles.
Benefits and pension There is no change in the implementation of our policy in relation to pension 12% of salary and benefits.
Annual bonus There will be no change to the annual bonus maximum potential in 2017: CEO: 150% of salary CFO: 125% of salary 30% of any bonus will be deferred into Weir Group shares for three years.
The following performance conditions will apply to awards in respect of 2017: Group Normalised Profit Before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA 40%, cash flow 20%, order input 20% and personal objectives 20%.
The personal objectives for the Executive Directors support and reinforce our strategy for 2017 and include objectives in line with our stated strategy related to our customers, our people, our technology and our performance.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Remuneration Committee and approved at the beginning of the performance year.
The Committee is of the view that the performance target for the financial element under the annual bonus is commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose this before the end of the financial year.
Disclosure of the performance targets of the financial elements in advance could lead the Company to be at a competitive disadvantage as many competitors are not listed in the UK and would not be subject to this requirement.
The Company would be releasing potentially commercially sensitive information which many of the Companys direct competitors in its three end markets would not be required to disclose.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the personal element are commercially sensitive as they relate to internal management projects and personal goals.
The Company will disclose performance against the financial and personal targets and the resulting bonus pay-outs for 2017 in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 97 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued LTIP There will be no change to the LTIP maximum potential in 2017: CEO: 250% of base salary CFO: 200% of base salary The following performance conditions will apply to awards in respect of 2017: Earnings Per Share EPS 33.3%, Return on Capital Employed ROCE 33.3%, Total Shareholders Return TSR 33.3%.
The environment in which we are trading continues to be uncertain, particularly in terms of the future performance of our end markets and foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
We anticipate that this uncertainty will continue in light of recent economic and political events such as the UKs decision to leave the EU and the result of the US Presidential election.
The targets for the 2017 LTIP have therefore been set taking into account these factors, whilst ensuring that they continue to be aligned with our overarching strategic objective of building shareholder value over the long-term.
Both the ROCE and EPS targets have been set at more stretching levels for awards to be made in 2017.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the revised targets mean that awards will only pay out if there is sustained improvement in the performance of Weir over the longer term.
TSR EPS ROCE Relative TSR Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of growth against TSR portion EPS growth per EPS portion ROCE portion comparator group vesting annum vesting 2019 ROCE vesting Upper quintile 100% 15% 100% 12.6% 100% Median 25% 5% 25% 8.6% 25% Less than Below median 0% Less than 5% 0% 8.6% 0% The base ROCE is 7.6%.
For the 2017 awards this represents growth of 1% at threshold and 5% at maximum over the base 2016 ROCE of 7.6%.
Awards will be granted in the form of performance shares with a three-year performance period, followed by a two-year holding period.
In all cases awards will only vest subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
The Committee must also be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the awards.
TSR performance for the 2017 LTIP grant will be assessed against the following companies: Amec Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco AB, Caterpillar, Dover Corporation, Fenner Plc, FLSmidth & Co A S, Flowserve Corporation, Forum Energy Technologies Inc, Hunting, IMI Plc, ITT Corporation, John Wood Group Plc, Joy Global, Komatsu, Melrose, Metso Corporation, National Oilwell Varco, Outotec Oyj, Petrofac, Rotork Plc, Sandvik AB, Smiths Group, SPX FLOW, Sulzer, TechnipFMC.
Non-Executive Directors The fees per annum for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
1 2017 fees Percentage 2016 fees change Non-Executive Chairmans fee 298,000 2.8% 290,000 Non-Executive Directors base fee 59,500 2.6% 58,000 Chairman of Committees fee 15,500 3.3% 15,000 Senior Independent Directors fee 12,500 4.2% 12,000 Additional fee for Chairman of Technology Advisory Board 15,500 3.3% 15,000 Note 1.
Fees are effective from 1 April 2017.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 98 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Executive Directors Audited Fixed elements Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Pension Total Base salary Benefits Annual bonus LTIP Retirement benefits Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 Jon Stanton 503,750 441,771 21,830 20,356 255,838 113,750 60,450 54,150 841,868 630,027 2 John Heasley 99,999 4,329 52,157 5,333 161,818 Former Executive Directors 3,5 Keith Cochrane 562,500 728,125 17,079 22,994 365,456 225,000 67,500 89,250 1,012,535 1,065,369 4,5 Dean Jenkins 303,719 67,346 148,671 11,903 531,639 Notes 1.
Jon Stanton was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 2016.
The figures in the table above include payments in respect of his role as Group Finance Director to 30 September 2016 and as Chief Executive Officer from 1 October 2016.
The increased bonus potential in respect of his role as Chief Executive Officer has been pro-rated from the date of appointment i. e. 1 October 2016.
John Heasley was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2016.
The figures in the table above are in respect of the period from his appointment to the Board.
Keith Cochrane stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016 and his employment with the Company ceased on 31 December 2016.
Dean Jenkins stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016 and his employment with the Company ceased on 31 December 2016.
The figures in the Single Figure table for Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins relate to the period that they were members of the Board 1 January 2016 to 30 September 2016.
Further information on payments in the period from when they stepped down from the Board are provided below.
Notes to the Single Figure of Remuneration for Executive Directors Table Audited Payments to Former Directors No payments to former Directors in the year.
Departures of Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins Both Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016 with employment ceasing on 31 December 2016.
The terms of their departures were announced at the time and are included here in line with the reporting regulations.
Both Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins continued to receive salary and benefits in respect of the period up to and including 31 December in the usual way values of 298,531 and 189,563 respectively.
Thereafter, they will be made a payment in lieu of notice PILON of 472,788 and AUD$489,463.98 250,250 at an agreed exchange rate of 1 AUD$1.955 respectively.
This is calculated as the base salary which would have accrued during the unexpired portion of the 12 month notice period plus 10% of salary in lieu of benefits as provided for in their service contracts.
PILON payments are subject to mitigation in the event that alternative employment is taken up.
There were no other payments made to former directors above a fide minimis threshold of 750.
Both Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins remained eligible for a bonus in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2016, to be paid at the same time as other participants subject to Company and individual performance conditions being met.
The bonus relating to their period as Executive Directors has been included in the table above.
The bonus for the full financial year has been disclosed on page 103.
Existing LTIP and deferred bonus awards will continue to their normal vesting dates in accordance with the plan rules.
For the LTIP awards, vesting will be based on existing performance conditions, subject to time pro-rating to 31 December 2016 i. e. the date employment ceased.
The two-year post-vesting holding period for LTIP Awards will apply.
No further LTIP Awards will be granted.
In line with his service contract dated 19 February 2010, and the policy approved by shareholders in 2014, Keith Cochrane will be eligible to be considered for the Company performance element of bonus in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2017, pro-rated for the period to 28 July 2017, to be paid at the same time as other participants subject to performance conditions being met and subject to mitigation.
He will not be entitled to any payout in relation to the personal element which accounts for 20% of his 2017 bonus.
30% of any bonus shall be subject to deferral into shares in the Company for a period of three years from the date the bonus pays out.
Base Salary Upon his promotion to Chief Executive Officer, Jon Stantons salary was increased to 650,000 from 455,000, effective 1 October 2016.
John Heasley was appointed to the Board on a salary of 400,000, effective 3 October 2016.
Benefits and Pension Benefits paid in the 2016 financial year included life insurance cover, car allowance and Group healthcare.
These are detailed in the table on page 100.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 99 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued In July 2014, the Company introduced an auto-enrolment provision for Executive Directors to receive a contribution to the pension plan or a cash allowance of 12% of salary.
The Group made no additional provisions for Executive Director pensions in 2016.
Benefits for Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins relate to the period they were members of the Board 1 January 2016 to 30 September 2016.
Other benefits for Dean Jenkins are in relation to travel and accommodation.
Life Insurance cover and Group healthcare for Dean Jenkins has been converted into Sterling using the average exchange rate of 2016 1 AUD$1.8258.
Annual Bonus Plan The 2016 annual bonus was based on achievement of Group Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA 40%, cash flow 20%, order input 20% and personal performance 20% targets.
Executive Directors 2016 performance was assessed relative to both the financial and non-financial targets and wider shareholder experience.
Annual Bonus Performance Measures and Targets Contribution to Weighting as payout as Payout as a percentage of percentage of Actual percentage of total bonus maximum bonus 2016 performance required performance maximum opportunity opportunity Group Normalised Profit Before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA Based on the achievement Threshold 139m 151m 30.6% 40% 12.2% of NPBTA targets measured Target 188m over the financial period.
Stretch 236m Cash flow Based on the achievement Threshold 262m 271m 28.7% 20% 5.7% of cash flow targets measured Target 301m over the financial period.
Stretch 340m Order input Based on the achievement Threshold 1,645m 1,733m 33.7% 20% 6.7% of orders received targets Target 1,902m measured over the financial period.
Stretch 2,158m Total 30.9% 24.7% The profit performance measure of Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA was selected by the Company as profitability is central to the Companys overall strategy.
The performance measure is normalised by adjusting to exclude exceptional items and intangible amortisation, and is also restated to January 2016 average exchange rates.
The performance targets are also set using January 2016 average exchange rates and are increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval.
For acquisitions, targets are increased by the expected performance from the acquired business.
For disposals, the target is reduced by the expected performance from the business which was disposed of.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 100 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Assessment of Individual Performance For each of the individuals covered below, 2016 has been a year of change in their roles.
Specific personal performance objectives were agreed for each specific role and the individual was assessed against these objectives, with the outcome time weighted to provide an overall score.
The overall scores also reflect a more refined approach to assessment, particularly towards the end of the year.
Current Executive Directors Jon Stanton Jon Stanton served as CFO for the period 1 January to 30 September 2016 CEO designate from 28 July 2016.
He then served as CEO from 1 October to 31 December 2016.
Given the Board changes during the year, new objectives were approved by the Committee reflecting the shift in role and responsibilities.
The tables below provide detail on the objectives and achievement for the two roles.
CFO role Objective Performance achieved Cost control and disposals Delivery of more than 160m in total savings across the Group in 2016.
Achievement of active balance sheet management.
Progress on disposals of non-core assets, with a total of 78m received.
People engagement and Significant improvement in team communication and engagement, resulting in good management in finance function retention levels and enhanced leadership development.
Step change in tax capability with progression of team.
Treasury focus on business support Supply chain financing fully rolled out in the year with around 70m of financing utilised by suppliers.
Progress on packaging customer financing solutions with bids.
Development of Treasury function with evidence of added value to the business.
IT strategy Successful delivery of the IT strategy with a full roll-out of several IT programmes and significant progress made on the e-commerce platform.
CEO role Objective Performance achieved Strategy refresh Review of strategy including current portfolio and M&A.
Launch of updated strategy announced with 2016 preliminary results.
People engagement and A number of senior appointments made including internal promotion to CFO role.
management Positive feedback on leadership approach.
Assessment against the personal objectives set out above has been pro-rated to reflect the period served in each role.
On the basis of the above performance, the Committee determined that payment of 17.6% out of a maximum of 20% for the personal element is appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 101 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued John Heasley John Heasley served as CFO for the period 3 October to 31 December 2016: therefore the objectives below relate to this period.
However when assessing his achievement in the year the Committee took into consideration his performance across the whole year, including the period prior to becoming a member of the Board.
Objective Performance achieved Successful management of transition Successful execution and delivery of 2017 budget.
Effective handover of Flow Control activities with solid strategy in mid-execution.
Stakeholder relationships Good relationships built with external and internal stakeholders including successful integration with the Board.
Assessment against the personal objectives set out above has been pro-rated for the period that John Heasley served as CFO.
On the basis of the above performance, the Committee determined that payment of 17.0% out of a maximum of 20% for the personal element is appropriate.
Former Executive Directors Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
However they remained employed by the Company until 31 December 2016.
This section sets out details on the whole of the bonus paid for 2016.
Following their change in role, new objectives were approved for both individuals reflecting the shift in role and responsibilities.
The table below provides information on the personal objectives for both periods.
Keith Cochrane Objective Performance achieved Operational and organisational excellence Business continued to perform well during the period given end market conditions.
Progress towards reaching target of 100m non-core asset disposals.
Leadership and external ambassador Maintained high-level relations with political and industrial stakeholders.
Strengthened links to universities and Research and Development organisations.
Effective stakeholder management of succession plan.
Safety and welfare Health and safety agenda continues to plan.
Engagement and retention of employees No high profile or key talent departures in the period.
Significant one-on-one engagement with the organisation took place post the announcement of Keith Cochrane stepping down.
Succession planning Available as required and participated actively with the Group Executive on long-term planning.
On the basis of the above performance, the Committee determined that payment of 19.6% out of a maximum of 20% for the personal element is appropriate.
Dean Jenkins Objective Performance achieved Cost analysis and simplification Undertook various in-depth cost reviews during the period, identifying key focus areas.
Developed and actioned cost control measures.
Innovation Successful completion of innovation projects.
Implementation of Weirs innovation strategy.
Engagement Used his role to increase ongoing communication within the Weir management community to ensure that engagement continued to improve.
China India Following the discovery of the un-provided liability in the China region, an adjustment was made to the personal element of Deans bonus.
On the basis of the above performance, the Committee determined that payment of 14.8% out of a maximum of 20% for the personal element is appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 102 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Overview of Bonuses in Respect of 2016 As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairs letter, in respect of un-provided liabilities of 17m in our China business due to poor product performance and inventory management, the Committee applied a discretionary downward adjustment of 10% of the bonus outcome.
This reduction has been applied to those Executive Directors who were in role at the time.
The table below sets out the bonus payouts in 2016 showing the amounts before and after the reduction has been applied.
Financial Personal element element Payout contribution contribution following as % of total as % of total Payout as application of maximum maximum percentage of Subtotal discretionary 1 Executive Director bonus bonus maximum bonus 10% reduction Jon Stanton 24.7% 17.6% 42.4% 284,264 255,838 2 John Heasley 24.7% 17.0% 41.7% 52,157 52,157 Keith Cochrane 24.7% 19.6% 44.3% 498,104 448,294 Dean Jenkins 24.7% 14.8% 39.5% 224,519 202,067 Notes Bonus figures rounded for disclosure purposes.
For Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins this relates to the bonus for the whole of the 2016 financial year.
The numbers for these two individuals differ from those included in the Single Figure table as those numbers relate to the period of the year that both Keith and Dean were on the Board 1 January to 30 September 2016.
John Heasleys bonus has been pro-rated for the period from which he became a Board Director.
John Heasley joined the Board on 3 October 2016.
No discretionary adjustment has been applied to his bonus payout.
In line with the existing remuneration policy, 30% of the total 2016 bonus award will be deferred into shares for three years for all Executive Directors.
Long-Term Incentives Vesting in 2017 Actual Performance The 2014 performance share awards for the Executive Directors were due to vest on 29 May 2017.
The table below sets out a summary of the 1 performance conditions and performance against these conditions.
Threshold Maximum Percentage Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Actual performance vesting 2,3 Relative TSR 33% Median Upper Quintile Below median 0% 4 EPS growth p. a.
33% 5% 11% Below threshold 0% 5 Improvement in average ROCE p. a.
33% 0.5% 4% Below threshold 0% Total vesting: 0% Straight line vesting in between these points Notes 1.
The Committee selected the performance conditions for the LTIP as these are central to the Companys overall strategy and are intended to link reward to long term sustainable growth.
TSR is the increase in the net return index the index that reflects movements in share price over a period and dividend reinvested net of any associated tax credit in shares on the ex-dividend date for a company as calculated by Datastream or such other financial information provider as selected by the Committee over the performance period.
The relative TSR performance was measured against the following companies: Amec Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco, Hunting replacing Cameron which was acquired by Schlumberger during the performance period, Crane, Dover Corporation, Fenner PLC, FLSmidth & CO A S, Flowserve, FMC, Forum Energy Technologies Inc, IMI PLC, ITT Corporation, Joy Global, Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Sandvik AS, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX FLOW, Sulzer, Vesuvius, John Wood Group PLC.
EPS is adjusted earnings per fully paid ordinary share in the capital of the Company calculated on such basis as the Committee may specify.
In addition, the EPS figure used to calculate the award may be adjusted for changes in accounting standards to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
ROCE is defined as earnings before interest and tax divided by capital employed.
Earnings before interest and tax is taken as Group continuing operations after intangibles amortisation but before exceptional items for the relevant financial year.
Capital employed is taken as the average of opening and closing Group net assets excluding net debt cash and pension deficit net of deferred tax asset for the relevant financial year.
To eliminate the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates over the period of the plan, the average foreign exchange rates for the base year are held constant throughout the plan period.
With regard to acquisitions, those acquisitions made in the base year are included, based on a full years ownership, for the purposes of target setting.
Where acquisitions are made in subsequent years of the plan period, these are excluded from the assessment of performance relative to the target.
Where there are disposals during the plan period, the base and target ROCE calculations will be restated to eliminate the contribution from the disposed business in the period of ownership.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 103 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Scheme Interests Awarded during 2016 Audited The following table sets out the interests of the Executive Directors in the Companys share schemes, comprising awards of performance, bonus and restricted shares under the LTIP, which were awarded during year ending 31 December 2016.
The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 30 December 2016 was 18.90 and the range during the year was 7.65 to 19.36.
Face value Face value of award at of award at Type of Grant Number threshold maximum Share interest Date share Basis of shares vesting vesting Date of Performance award type awarded of award price of award awarded vesting period Jon Stanton Performance Conditional 29 Apr 16 11.65 200% salary 78,111 227,498 909,993 29 Apr 19 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Bonus Deferred 18 Mar 16 11.24 30% bonus 1,597 17,950 18 Mar 19 John Heasley Performance Conditional 29 Apr 16 11.65 180% salary 47,896 139,497 557,988 29 Apr 19 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Bonus Deferred 18 Mar 16 11.24 30% bonus 741 8,329 18 Mar 19 Restricted Restricted 29 Apr 16 12.00 20,000 240,000 29 Apr 19 Keith Cochrane Performance Conditional 29 Apr 16 11.65 250% salary 160,944 468,749 1,874,998 29 Apr 19 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Bonus Deferred 18 Mar 16 11.24 30% bonus 3,159 35,507 18 Mar 19 Dean Jenkins Performance Conditional 29 Apr 16 11.65 200% salary 78,111 227,498 909,993 29 Apr 19 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Bonus Deferred 18 Mar 16 11.24 30% bonus 1,065 11,971 18 Mar 19 The face value of the Performance Award is based on the share price at grant, which is calculated as the average of the closing share price for the three days prior to the date of grant.
The face value of the Bonus Share Awards is calculated as the share price on date of grant.
Restricted Share Awards were made in respect of employment prior to John Heasley joining the Board on 3 October 2016.
The Grant Share price for this is calculated as the share price on date of grant.
The performance shares are subject to the following performance conditions: TSR 33% EPS 33% ROCE 33% Relative TSR growth Percentage of TSR Percentage of EPS Percentage of ROCE against comparator group proportion vesting EPS growth per annum proportion vesting 2018 ROCE proportion vesting Upper quintile 100% 7.5% 100% 12.5% 100% Median 25% 2% 25% 10.5% 25% Below median 0% Less than 2% 0% Less than 10.5% 0% Straight-line vesting will occur between threshold and maximum.
The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years.
The EPS and ROCE measures are calculated over financial periods.
TSR comparator Group: Amec Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco AB, Caterpillar, Dover Corporation, Fenner Plc, FLSmidth & Co A S, Flowserve Corporation, Forum Energy Technologies Inc, Hunting, IMI Plc, ITT Corporation, John Wood Group Plc, Joy Global, Komatsu, Melrose, Metso Corporation, National Oilwell Varco, Outotec Oyj, Petrofac, Rotork Plc, Sandvik AB, Smiths Group, SPX FLOW, Sulzer, TechnipFMC.
The base 2016 EPS used for the purposes of the 2016 performance share award is 78.4 pence per share.
The base ROCE has been calculated at 9.5%.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 104 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Audited The following table details the remuneration for the period ended 31 December 2016, received by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director SID and Non-Executive Directors.
The taxable benefits includes the taxable benefit of travel this does not include international travel from America and South Africa to attend Board meetings in the UK.
Lord Robertson retired from the Board on 31 January 2015.
External Appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Details of external directorships held by Executive Directors, together with fees retained during the year are as follows: Fee Executive Director Company Roles held John Heasley Royal Scottish National Orchestra Non-Executive Director Society Limited Keith Cochrane Carillion plc Non-Executive Director and Senior 61,290 Independent Non-Executive Director Keith Cochrane The Scotland Office and the Office Lead Non-Executive Director 2,700 of the Advocate General Note 1.
Keith Cochrane is entitled to claim 300 per meeting attended in his role of Lead Non-Executive Director of the Scotland Office and the Office of the Advocate General.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 105 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Statement of Directors Shareholdings and Share Interests Audited The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long-term commitment to the Company and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The shareholding guideline for Jon Stanton and John Heasley are 200% and 150% of salary respectively.
In line with market practice, there are no shareholding guidelines for Non-Executive Directors.
Summary of Total Number of Interests in Shares in the Company and Scheme Interests as at 31 December 2016 Interests in shares in the Company Scheme interests as at Scheme vested and exercised 31 December interests as at in 2016 3 2016 31 December 2016 2013 grant Total Total performance compulsory shares and investment Total shares Total shares Total shares matching shares shares options contributing to subject to not subject to options with without shareholding Shareholding Total performance performance performance performance guidelines % of guidelines Shareholding 1 2 4 shares conditions conditions conditions conditions 2016 salary % of 2016 salary guidelines met 5 Jon Stanton 40,322 161,629 4,765 3,210 117% 200% No 6 John Heasley 6,521 91,743 21,877 31% 150% No 7 Keith Cochrane 218,179 333,003 9,555 8,026 550% 150% Yes 8 Dean Jenkins 21,235 143,572 3,046 2,100 87% 150% No Charles Berry 2,069 Alan Ferguson 2,730 Melanie Gee 2,586 9 Mary Jo Jacobi 2,000 Sir Jim McDonald Richard Menell 1,024 John Mogford 12,331 Notes 1.
This includes Bonus Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards under the LTIP.
The Bonus Share Awards are included in the Total shares column.
On 11 March 2016, the Compulsory Investment Shares under the LTIP 2014 vested for Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins, and on 24 March 2016 for Jon Stanton.
The performance conditions were not met so the performance shares lapsed in full.
Percentage is calculated using share price of 18.90 as at 31 December 2016.
Jon Stanton was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2016 therefore his minimum shareholding requirement has increased from 150% to 200%.
His target date has also changed to 1 October 2021.
John Heasley was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2016 therefore his minimum shareholding requirement has increased from 100% to 150%.
His target date has also changed to 3 October 2021.
Keith Cochrane stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
Dean Jenkins stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
Mary Jo Jacobis interest in 2,000 shares shown above is through her holding of 4,000 American Depositary Receipts ADRs, one ADR being equivalent to 0.5 ordinary shares.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests between 31 December 2016 and 13 February 2017.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 106 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 000 TSR Index 5,000 1,000 4,500 900 4,000 800 000 TSR Index 5,000 3,500 800 700 Corporate Governance 3,000 600 4,500 720 2,500 500 4,000 640 2,000 400 3,500 560 1,500 300 3,000 480 2,500 1,000 400 200 Performance Graph and Table for Chief Executive Officer The graph below shows the total shareholder return TSR for The Weir Group PLC and the FTSE 350 Index over the eight-year period ending 500 100 2,000 320 31 December 2016.
This is set out with the total vested and received remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer over the same period, which 1,500 0 240 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mr 2016 Mr is set out numerically below the chart.
2009 total remuneration relates to the period Mark Selway was Chief Executive Officer until his resignation in November 2009.
2009 total remuneration relates to the period Keith Cochrane was Chief Executive Officer from November 2009.
2016 total remuneration relates to the period Keith Cochrane was on the Board to 30 September 2016.
2016 total remuneration relates to the period Jon Stanton was Chief Executive Officer from 1 October 2016.
Percentage Change in Chief Executive Officer Remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in elements of remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer and UK employees between 2016 and 2017.
Chief UK Executive employees percentage percentage change change Salary and fees 13% 20% Taxable benefits 5% 33% Bonus 19% 179% Due to the change in Chief Executive Officer during the year, the movement in salary reflects the difference between Keith Cochranes salary as at 31 December 2015 and Jon Stantons salary as at 31 December 2016.
The movement in bonus compares the sterling amounts received at each date.
The UK employee population has been selected as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office employees and other individuals located in the same country as the Chief Executive Officer.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the expenditure of the Company on employee remuneration costs in the 2016 financial year and 2015 financial year.
In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
2016 2015 m m Percentage change Profit distributed by way of dividend 94.5 94.0 0.5% Overall spend on pay for employees 558.7 533.3 4.8% Details of the dividends declared and paid during the periods are contained in note 10 to the Financial Statements on page 148.
Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 141.
The Company has considered a number of possible pay ratios to disclose as part of the relativity of pay.
Given the spread of our operations globally, we have decided to wait for further guidance on pay ratios.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 107 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Consideration by the Directors of Matters Relating to Directors Remuneration Terms of Reference and Evaluation To ensure reward arrangements support the Companys philosophy, strategy and culture, the Committee reviews compensation and benefit plans for the Executive Directors, senior leadership, and the broader employee population.
In December 2016, the Committee reviewed and updated its Terms of Reference.
The Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the 2016 Board evaluation process, and it was concluded that the Committee had functioned effectively in what had been a very busy year incorporating substantial shareholder consultation and changes in management.
More details of the Board evaluation can be found on page 68.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
Meetings The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
Committee membership in 2016 Appointed to the Committee Chair Melanie Gee 9 May 2012 Committee Alan Ferguson 1 February 2015 Mary Jo Jacobi 21 January 2014 Richard Menell 29 July 2011 Other attendees by invitation Chairman Charles Berry Chief Executive Officer Jon Stanton Chief People Officer Pauline Lafferty Secretary Gillian Kyle January November 2016 Christopher Morgan Advisers to the Committee PwC January April 2016 Deloitte LLP June Dec 2016 Percentage of meetings Name Committee meetings attended 13 January 19 January 9 February 23 February 28 April 22 July 6 September 11 October 13 December Melanie Gee 100% Alan Ferguson 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 100% Rick Menell 100% There were nine meetings held in 2016, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee during that period is detailed in the table above.
Calls with members of the Remuneration Committee were also held by telephone in relation to the shareholder consultation on the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors and no Director plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Executive Directors and senior management attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
Committee Activities During 2016, the Committee fulfilled its responsibilities as set out in the Terms of Reference, which can be found on our website www.
In particular, its work included the following activities: Significant investor consultation: 2016 and 2017 policy approach: Reviewing and determining: annual base salary adjustments for Executive Directors and Group Executive members: outcomes against annual bonus and long term incentive plan metrics: financial and personal objectives for annual bonus plan including threshold, target and maximum amounts : performance targets in respect of long term incentive plan: terms of departure for departing CEO and COO: and terms of recruitment for new CEO and CFO.
Appointment of new independent adviser: Reviewing progress towards compliance with share ownership guidelines: Preparing the Remuneration Report: and Reviewing Terms of Reference.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 108 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Advisers to the Committee In discharging its responsibilities in 2016, the Committee was materially assisted by the Chief People Officer, the Company Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary.
Deloitte was appointed as the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee in July 2016 following a competitive tender process.
Prior to their appointment as auditors on 28 April 2016, PwC was the appointed independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2016 totalled 68,850.
Fees paid to Deloitte in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2016 totalled 145,200.
Both Deloitte and PwC are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of Conduct.
PwC also provided other services to Weir Group in the year including advice on pension schemes, IT project assurance, global mobility services including taxation advice, internal audit services, share plan taxation and due diligence in relation to acquisitions, the majority of which were prior to their appointment as external auditor.
Deloitte also provided other services to the Weir Group in the year including tax, compliance and other advisory services.
Statement of Voting at Annual General Meeting At the Companys last Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016, the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Remuneration Policy as contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 was voted as follows: Voting outcome Votes for Percentage Votes against Percentage Votes total Votes withheld 2015 Directors Remuneration Report 148,724,820 95.30% 7,337,581 4.70% 156,062,401 66,654 2015 Directors Remuneration Policy 41,332,951 27.64% 108,219,722 72.36% 149,552,673 6,576,461 The remuneration policy tabled for shareholder approval at the Companys 2016 AGM did not receive sufficient levels of support from our shareholders to be approved.
The result highlighted a disconnect between the views of our shareholders and those of the Committee and management with regard to the best way to remunerate our executives going forward.
Following the result, the Committee commenced a period of review and undertook a shareholder consultation exercise to understand the views of our shareholders and proxy agencies.
As mentioned earlier in this Report, the Policy that is being tabled for approval at our 2017 AGM is largely unchanged from that approved by shareholders in 2014.
A more wide ranging review will be undertaken in 2017 once the CEOs strategic priorities have been announced to ensure close alignment of our strategy with our approach to pay.
Melanie Gee Chair of the Remuneration Committee 22 February 2017 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 109
