William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that the current policy has displayed a good degree of alignment between pay and performance.
To ensure this continues, we propose some minor changes to the policy for the coming year designed to reflect both goodpractice and the key strategic  Imelda Walsh Chair, Remuneration Committee There has been considerable consolidation the remaining balance of his notice period.
Annual Statement across our industry over the past few years Mitigation will be applied with monthly and though the Board did not believe that payments in lieu of notice reduced by Background and business the offer from Rank and 888 represented 100% of the amount of any salary or fee context good value for our shareholders, it did enter that James receives from any alternative discussions over a possible merger with employment or consultancy undertaken As the Chairman said in his statement, Amaya, which ended following consultation during this period.
2016 was a challenging year for William with leading shareholders in October 2016.
Hill with performance below the Boards Regardless of the outcome of the 2016 This intense period of corporate activity, original expectations at the start of Annual Bonus Plan, at the time of James whilst the Board continued its search for the year.
As a result of a lot of activity departure, we confirmed that he would not a permanent CEO, did create additional within the year, we delivered an adjusted be entitled to a bonus.
All other unvested complications in our remuneration operating profit in line with our revised long-term incentive awards including any policy review.
expectations, albeit at the bottom end unvested Save as You earn Sharesave of our range at 261.5m 2015: 291.2m.
As 2016 ended, Philip had re-focused the awards also lapsed in accordance with Although we benefited from EURO 2016, leadership team and the business has a the rules of their respective schemes.
results from other sporting events including much clearer series of priorities, including The Committee did agree that James could Cheltenham and football in the second half a substantial transformation programme retain the 77,754 deferred shares awarded of the year were less positive.
that will improve the efficiency of the under the Executive Bonus Matching organisation and drive cost savings that Scheme.
These shares were awarded as In March we announced that Onlines can support reinvestment in marketing and performance was being impacted by part of James 2014 bonus, which was product development.
based on performance previously delivered a series of changes, which reduced the competitiveness of our sports betting and and in part prior to James being appointed to the Board and as CEO.
This award was gaming products, at the same time as the 2016 remuneration introduction of further player protection made in March 2015 and the shares, which As noted above, James Henderson are not subject to any other performance measures.
Online's new leadership team stepped down from the Board in July has already implemented a number of condition, will be released in March 2018.
The Remuneration Committee improvements, for example the redesign Following James departure the CFO, Philip TheCommittee followed established of the Sportsbook app, which saw a better Bowcock, was appointed Interim CEO.
good practice in respect of his termination second half performance.
This has given Philip's remuneration was announced at arrangements and in line with the the Board greater confidence that we the time of his appointment.
His salary provisions of our Directors' Remuneration have the products and user experience to was increased from 420,000 to 550,000 Policy.
We fully disclosed the agreed terms compete strongly in 2017. for the period of his interim appointment at the time of the announcement.
which was in line with James salary.
Following the difficult start to 2016 Under the terms of James' contract, His bonus opportunity was increased to and after careful reflection, the Board the Company was required to give him 175% of salary, measured pro-rata for time concluded that a change of leadership 12 months' notice and this commenced on in-post as Interim CEO.
was required and James Henderson 21 July 2016.
For transition purposes, James left the Board with immediate effect on All of Philip's remuneration is in accordance remained an employee for four weeks from 21 July 2016 and Philip Bowcock, CFO, was with our policy, and further details are set the start of the notice period.
Following this appointed Interim CEO.
This was followed out on page 86. the Company paid base salary, employer by an unsolicited approach from The Rank pension contributions and the cost of Group plc and 888 Holdings plc.
benefits in monthly instalments for up to Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 69 Governance The Committee set stretching targets for where William Hills performance has not scheme that makes us less competitive.
the 2016 bonus for executive directors, met the demanding target ranges set by The implementation of this change Financial which included an adjusted operating profit the Committee, whether annual or longwill require an amendment to our 2014 statements threshold of 284.3m 60% weighting as term, incentive payments have not been Performance Share Plan rules and this well as 25% on net revenue and 15% on made in either 2015 or 2016.
Nonetheless, will be tabled as an additional resolution individual objectives.
However, as described in considering how our pay structures at the AGM.
Awards made from 2015 above, final performance was below should operate for the coming three-year onwards were subject to a one-year the targets originally set with adjusted period, we identified several areas in which holding period post-vesting we now operating profit, which also acts as an change would be beneficial in order to propose to increase this to a two-year overall bonus gateway, below the threshold recognise good practice and also navigate holding period to take into account the level and therefore no bonus was payable.
the challenging business environment in shorter vesting period.
Share ownership is very important Due to the change from a three-year to a to align the interests of Directors and four-year long-term incentive plan LTIP In reviewing our policy, we had several aims: shareholders.
The Committee wishes performance period, which was introduced to ensure we are able to recruit and to strengthen the current shareholding in 2014, no long-term incentive awards were motivate business leaders of the right guideline to require that all vested shares eligible to vest in 2016. calibre to steer the business in the net of tax must be held until the share In considering remuneration decisions coming years in what is a particularly ownership guideline is met.
To support for executives, the Committee takes into competitive sector: this, the deferral period on annual bonus account the pay and conditions applying to will be reduced to two years from three.
to provide the flexibility in both bonus Group colleagues in general.
It is regularly This is a more demanding requirement and LTIP to use metrics that are aligned updated on this topic and, where significant up until the point that the CEO holds with the Companys strategic direction: changes are proposed to employment shares equivalent in value to 200% this flexibility is particularly important conditions elsewhere in the Group, these of base salary, and other executive during a time of change: and are highlighted for the attention of the directors 150%.
Half of any bonus paid to ensure that executives build a Committee at an early stage.
will continue to be deferred into shares.
meaningful stake in the business The Committee believes that all the above There were a number of factors influencing by receiving a significant portion of changes will improve our policy going employee pay in 2016.
In particular the remuneration in shares and being forwards.
However, it is entirely possible Company addressed the introduction of required to retain these as they build that in the coming year, as the Board the National Living Wage NLW in April their ownership stake.
reviews strategic direction and confirms 2016 by extending the scope to include With those aims in mind, we are proposing the Companys executive leadership, that those colleagues under 25.
This means the following changes: it may be appropriate to revisit this policy.
all colleagues are paid in excess of the more flexibility in the selection of LTIP If this is the case, we will of course consult National Minimum Wage.
In addition, measures, to be able to respond to with shareholders over any proposed the restructure of the Retail business evolving business priorities with at least changes before submitting a revised policy described on page 27 led to changes 75% of any future award to be based on for approval.
in roles required in the future with an financial metrics for example but not associated impact on salaries.
As part of I consulted with leading shareholders, necessarily exclusively, TSR and EPS the restructure, the Retail business also on behalf of the Committee, on the with the balance based on relevant introduced a new quarterly bonus plan proposed changes to our remuneration Business Performance Metrics: and linked to a scorecard of measures all within policy.
Where we received feedback, it to change the LTIP performance period the employees influence.
was generally supportive, particularly to three years.
the emphasis on changes to support When the current policy was set, we Remuneration policy executives build their shareholding.
believed that a four-year period was the The consultation also indicated that we Our current remuneration policy for best approach for our business so that would delay making an LTIP award in directors was approved in 2014 and each cycle contained two major football 2017 until the new policy was approved is therefore due for renewal at the tournaments one World cup and one and we would again consult with leading forthcoming AGM.
In considering whether European cup.
However, we have found shareholders on our proposal.
the current policy has been effective, the that the longer performance period has Committee considered the alignment proved unattractive to new hires and less between incentive outcomes and the motivational generally.
The Companys underlying performance of the business, business planning cycle is better aligned which this policy has generated.
Specifically, to a three-year performance period and targets can be set to take account of the impact of biennial football tournaments.
We believe this change will remove a point of difference in our In total there will be four remuneration related resolutions tabled at the forthcoming AGM, covering approval of: the Remuneration Policy: the Annual Remuneration Report: minor changes to the rules of the Performance Share Plan: and the renewal of our deferred bonus plan, the Executive Deferred Share Bonus Plan previously known as the 2007 Executive Bonus Matching Scheme.
There are no material changes to this plan other than to its name to more accurately reflect its purpose and the adoption of a number of best practice amendments.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Directors Remuneration Report continued Specific targets ranges will not be The Committee welcomes input on our Application of policy for 2017 disclosed at this time as they are deemed remuneration policies, and I am happy to The Committee increased Philip Bowcocks to be commercially sensitive.
However, receive comments or questions on any salary when he was appointed Interim CEO retrospective disclosure of the targets and element of this report, via the Company.
for the duration of his interim appointment.
performance against them will be provided If you have any comments or questions Having done so, the Committee will not in next years report.
on any element of the report, please email be reviewing his salary while he remains me at iwalsh@williamhill.
co. uk or care In order to fully reflect the emerging Interim CEO.
of Ed Airey, Group Reward Director, at strategic priorities of the business and eairey@williamhill.
Pay and conditions across the Group will also to include the views of new Board again be matters that the Committee colleagues who were announced in Finally, I would like to thank our considers.
The NLW will increase in April November 2016 the 2017 LTIP grant will shareholders for their continued support 2017 and because we apply this to all be made following the publication of the and I hope that you will vote in favour of colleagues, this means 4,760 colleagues interim results in August 2017, rather than all remuneration-related resolutions at will receive a 4.1% increase.
In addition the between March and May, which is the our AGM on 9 May 2017.
I would also like to Company will operate an employee-wide Companys normal practice.
express my thanks to my colleagues on the salary review pot in April with an overall Committee for their hard work in 2016 and budget of 2% for all other colleagues.
Listening to feedback for the support we have received from the William Hill management team.
The Group has identified three priority I am very conscious of the ongoing and areas as part of its ongoing diversification Imelda Walsh vocal debate on executive pay.
However, in Chair, Remuneration Committee strategy set out in the CEO Strategy the application of remuneration policy at Update page 11.
These are: William Hill over the past two years, there have been no incentive payouts, as the Growing market share in the UK: performance thresholds have not been International growth: and achieved.
Therefore, whilst recognising Delivering the transformation and that disappointing performance is technology projects.
something best avoided, the policy has The Committee has considered the design done its job and overall remuneration has of the 2017 annual bonus plan whilst significantly reduced.
recognising that changes were made in Decisions on increases to executive pay 2016.
It has decided to keep the present versus the wider workforce are also front structure of three measures but make a of mind for the Committee.
As already small adjustment to the weightings to take mentioned, changes to the Retail pay account of the transformation programme.
structure, job roles and the Companys Adjusted operating profit will remain the approach to the introduction of the NLW, principle measure and its weighting is were matters discussed at the Committee unchanged at 60%.
The target range is and also the Board.
Colleagues are not also unchanged at 90% to 110% of target.
specifically consulted on Executive In 2016, net revenue had a weighting of 25% remuneration but all colleagues are invited but for 2017 this will be reduced to 20% and to take part in our annual Your Say survey individual objectives increased from 15% to and the Board regularly reviews colleague 20%.
The Committee believes this change engagement data and is particularly aware is necessary to reflect the importance of any trends, comments and concerns of the transformation programme and around pay.
In addition, the Colleague executive directors will have specific Forum gives colleagues the opportunity objectives agreed by the Committee.
to ask questions of senior management, These will also include customer, colleague, via elected representatives.
From this leadership and compliance goals.
year, I will be attending the forum on an The net revenue target range is also annual basis to answer questions raised unchanged at 95%-105% of target and by employee representatives concerning again no bonus will be payable, under executive pay.
any measure, unless a threshold level of adjusted operating profit is achieved, as in 2016.
In setting the performance range by measure, the Committee took into account a range of data points, including the annual plan, market expectations, known regulatory changes and that 2017 is a nontournament year.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 71 Governance At A Glance Financial In this section we summarise the key principles that underpin our remuneration policy, the remuneration outcomes for the year ending statements 27 December 2016, and how we will apply our policy in 2017.
Remuneration principles Competitive be able to attract and retain senior leaders of a high calibre Alignment align the interests of executive directors and senior management with our shareholders Performance link variable remuneration should be linked to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives Flexible the remuneration policy should be sufficiently flexible to take account of changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice 2016 annual bonus Executive Directors did not receive a bonus in respect of FY 2016.
The annual bonus was based on three elements: 60% on adjusted operating profit, 25% on net revenue and 15% on individual objectives.
Adjusted operating profit 2016 adjusted operating profit of 261.5m was below the threshold of 284.3m and therefore none of the adjusted operating profit element of bonus was payable.
Net revenue 2016 net revenue of 1,603.8m was also below the threshold of 1,623.4m.
Individual objectives although Philip, as the Interim CEO and previously as CFO, achieved many of the objectives set, no bonus is payable for 2016 as the Group did not meet the adjusted operating profit threshold.
Further details on objectives are provided on page 82.
PSP awards vesting Outstanding awards previously granted to James Henderson lapsed in full on cessation of his employment.
No awards granted to Philip Bowcock, Interim CEO, were eligible to vest in 2016.
The first award granted to him in 2015 will vest, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions, in 2019.
2016 single figure remuneration for current Executive Directors BIK arising from Benefits in kind performance Annual Basic salary BIK ofduties bonuses Pension PSP 2016 total 2015 total Name of director 2 3 Philip Bowcock 477,655 28,242 3,487 0 96,940 0 606,323 85,599 James Henderson 4 resigned 21 July 2016 307,638 19,109 7,636 0 61,548 0 395,931 914,417 1 During Philips period as Interim CEO, the CFO role has been filled on an interim basis but with no resulting appointments made to the Board 2 Philips 2016 remuneration reflects salary of 420,000 in his role as CFO up to and including 20 July 2016, and salary of 550,000 as Interim CEO thereafter.
3 Philip was appointed to the Board as CFO on 1 November 2015 and so his amounts for 2015 relate to the two month period he was on the Board.
4 James 2016 remuneration reflects period to 21 July 2016, when he stepped down from the Board with immediate effect.
Full details are included on page 86.
Approach for 2017 Salary The Interim CEO's salary was set at 550,000 on appointment.
Benefits and pension No change proposed.
A company pension allowance of up to 20% will continue to apply.
Annual bonus No change proposed to potential quantum or the measures used but small change proposed to the weightings.
Adjusted operating profit will remain at 60%, net revenue will be reduced to 20% and personal objectives will be increased to 20%.
This allows for specific transformation objectives agreed by the Committee for each executive director to be included within personal objectives, which will also include customer, colleague, leadership and compliance goals.
Further details can be found on page 80.
The choice of shortterm metrics is designed to support the delivery of our key strategic priorities in 2017 and are aligned with our stated KPIs see page 19.
The inclusion of specific transformation objectives aligns with the wider programme set out on page 11.
The level of payout for threshold performance will remain at 10% of the maximum.
If the revised policy is approved, half of any bonus will be deferred into shares for two years.
Long-term incentives In order to ensure that the permanent CEO and the recently appointed Board members are able to participate in the design and target setting process for the 2017 LTIP, the award will be made later in 2017 after the interim results, which are published in August 2017.
We are still considering the right combination of measures and targets for this award, and intend to consult with leading shareholders during the year.
Details of these awards will be made at the time of grant and in next year's Annual Report on Remuneration.
If the revised policy is approved, performance will be measured over a three-year period.
A further two-year holding period will also apply after vesting.
The remainder of the Remuneration Report comprises the Remuneration Policy Report pages 72 to 79 and the Annual Report on Remuneration pages 80 to 89.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee considers that a Remuneration Policy Report Summary of policy changes successful remuneration policy needs to for 2017 be sufficiently flexible to take account of This part of the DRR, the Remuneration future changes in the Groups business Policy Report Policy Report, has been The broad structure of the policy remains environment and in remuneration practice.
prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to largely unchanged from the policy There must be transparency and alignment the Large and Medium-sized Companies approved by shareholders in 2014.
The to the delivery of strategic objectives and Groups Accounts and Reports changes which are being proposed are at both a Group and an individual level.
The intended to allow for more flexibility in There must also be scope to reward for Policy Report appears on pages 72 to 79 the choice of performance measures, and exceptional effort and achievement that inclusive and will be subject to a binding increased alignment between variable pay delivers value both for the Group and the shareholder vote at the Annual General and Company strategy.
Likewise, failure to achieve Meeting on 9 May 2017.
If approved the set out below: individually or at corporate level will not policy will retrospectively take effect from be rewarded.
The new policy allows for additional 28 December 2016, being the start of the flexibility in the selection of performance Companys financial year for 2017.
The Committee is also mindful of ensuring measures in the Performance Share that there is an appropriate balance Plan PSP, in order to better respond How the Remuneration between the level of risk and reward to evolving business priorities.
At least for the individual, the Company and Committee operates to set 75% of any future award will be based on for our shareholders.
When setting the the remuneration policy financial metrics for example, TSR and levels of shortand long-term variable EPS with the balance based on relevant remuneration, the degree of stretch in The Committee is constituted in Business Performance Metrics.
performance conditions and the split accordance with the recommendations of The PSP performance period has been between equity and cash within the the UK Corporate Governance Code and reduced from four years to three, in line package, consideration is given to obtaining is a committee of the Board.
It determines with typical market practice.
A threethe appropriate proportion of each so as the Groups policy on the remuneration year performance period is aligned not to encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
of the executive directors, the Chairman with our business planning cycle, and As well as financial risk, the Committee also and other relevant senior management.
It our experience has been that a longer ensures that there is an appropriate focus works within defined terms of reference, period has placed us at a competitive on environment, safety, governance and which are available upon request to disadvantage when recruiting externally.
the Company Secretary or from the The post-vesting holding period has Companys corporate website: www.
The remuneration package is reviewed been lengthened from one to two williamhillplc.
periodically taking into account all elements years, to take into account the shorter of remuneration, i. e. the Committee vesting period.
The Committees key objectives are to: does not look at any single element in In order to encourage executive directors set and agree with the Board isolation, to ensure it remains competitive.
to hold shares, and increase alignment a competitive and transparent The Committee undertakes the with shareholders' interests, all shares remuneration framework which is determination of individual remuneration vesting from PSP and deferred bonus aligned to the Group strategy and is in packages for executive directors and awards must be retained until the share the interests of both the Company and senior management annually.
Whilst pay ownership guideline has been met.
its shareholders: and benchmarking provides context for setting In support of executives building a direct pay levels, it is not considered in isolation determine the specific remuneration ownership stake sooner, the deferral and is not updated annually.
packages for each of the executive period for the annual bonus has been directors and certain other senior reduced to two years.
The total remuneration package is managers.
The remuneration package structured so that a significant proportion The Committee anticipates that it may be includes base salary, incentives, benefits is linked to performance conditions necessary to conduct a further review of and any compensation payments.
measured over both the short and longer the remuneration policy during 2017, once a term.
It is also the Committees policy permanent CEO is in place and to take into Remuneration policy to ensure that a high proportion of the account the outputs from the Company's objectives and principles potential remuneration package is paid ongoing strategic review.
Any further in shares, which is designed to ensure changes would be put to shareholders The remuneration policy for executive that executives have a strong ongoing either at the 2018 AGM, or earlier, at a alignment with shareholders through the directors and senior management is general meeting specially convened for designed to support the business needs Companys share price performance.
The Committee would of the Group, to ensure it has the ability consult with shareholders on any major to attract and retain senior leaders of a changes proposed.
high calibre, and to align the long-term interests of executive directors and senior management with those of our shareholders.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 73 Governance Future policy table Financial The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy for the executive directors, explaining how each element operates statements and how each part links to the corporate strategy.
Element of remuneration package: Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role and the post holders experience, competency and performance within the Company.
Operation Paid monthly in cash via payroll.
Normally reviewed by the Committee annually and fixed for 12 months commencing on the first day of the financial year.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: the commercial need to do so: role, experience and performance: average change in wider workforce pay: Company profitability and prevailing market conditions: and periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies, such as the FTSE 101-150 or who operate within the same broad sector as William Hill.
Opportunity The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels with annual increases typically in line with the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a change in the individuals responsibility, or where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role.
An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances to reflect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance of the individual.
Performance metrics Executive directors participate in the Companys annual performance management process.
Individual and Company performance is taken into account when determining appropriate salary increases.
Recovery and withholding No recovery or withholding applies.
Element of remuneration package: Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operate competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and retain executive directors and senior management.
As with employee benefits for the wider workforce, certain benefits e. g. private medical insurance are provided to minimise disruption e. g. from illness to the day-to-day operation of the business.
Operation Benefits include private medical insurance covering the executive, spouse and dependent children, a fully expensed car or car allowance, subsidised travel card, permanent health insurance and life assurance benefits.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
Executive directors participate in the Companys flexible benefits scheme.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a director is required to relocate.
The benefit must be taken up within 12 months of appointment unless exceptional circumstances prevail.
Executives may also be reimbursed for any reasonable expenses and any income tax payable thereon incurred in performance of their duties.
Opportunity The aim is to provide market-competitive benefits and their value may vary from year to year, depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
Performance metrics No performance metrics apply.
Recovery and withholding Relocation and related benefits may be subject to clawback either in full or part if an executive resigns within two years of joining.
Element of remuneration package: Pension Purpose and link to strategy Market competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits are provided to act as a retention mechanism and to recognise long service.
Operation Company Pension Savings Plan a defined contribution plan or cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions once statutory limits Lifetime and Annual Allowance are reached, or a combination of both.
Opportunity Executive directors are eligible for a pension contribution or cash in lieu of up to 20% of salary.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of remuneration package: Annual Performance Bonus cash and shares Purpose and link to strategy Incentivise executive directors and senior management to achieve specific, predetermined goals during a one-year period.
Rewards financial and individual performance linked to the Companys strategy.
Deferred proportion of bonus, awarded in shares, provides a retention element and additional alignment of interest with shareholders.
Operation Any bonus payment is determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on performance against challenging targets which are reviewed annually.
Half of the bonus is payable in cash with the remaining 50% deferred into shares for two years.
The deferred element may be subject to forfeiture in the event of the executive directors departure prior to vesting.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee on vested deferred bonus shares.
Opportunity The maximum bonus for any executive director is 175% of salary per annum.
Performance metrics At least 75% of the bonus will be based on an appropriate mix of financial metrics generally including adjusted operating profit, and no more than 25% will be based on individual objectives or strategic targets.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that all targets set are demanding.
No bonus in respect of individual objectives will be payable unless at least the threshold level of performance is achieved in respect of any profit-related metrics.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the bonus outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Recovery and withholding Bonuses may be recovered or deferred shares withheld if, within three years of the bonus payment, there has been a material misstatement of results, a calculation error, misleading information or if conduct justifying summary dismissal is discovered.
Element of remuneration package: Long-term incentives: Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To drive performance and retention and align interests of executive directors and shareholders through building a shareholding.
Incentivises participants to profitably grow the business and to achieve superior long-term shareholder returns in line with the Companys strategy.
Retains key executives over the performance period.
Operation Awards, normally in the form of nil-cost options, are granted annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions and the executive directors continued employment.
PSP awards have a three-year performance and vesting period.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee on vested PSP award shares.
A holding period applies for executive directors, which requires PSP awards to be retained for a further period of two years from the end of the performance period except for the sale of shares needed to pay income tax and national insurance arising on exercise.
Opportunity The rules of the PSP state that PSP awards do not normally exceed 225% of base salary.
This limit may be increased to 300% of base salary in circumstances considered by the Committee to be exceptional.
Quantum is reviewed annually subject to the above limits taking into account overall remuneration, the performance of the Company and of the executive director being made the award.
Awards in recent years have been 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO or other executive director.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 75 Governance Performance metrics The appropriateness of the performance conditions and the targets to be set are reviewed annually.
Financial statements At least 75% of the award will be based on financial metrics examples include but are not limited to TSR or EPS : with the balance on relevant Business Performance Metrics BPMs.
Each performance condition is measured independently.
The Committee retains the flexibility to determine the metrics to be used, as well as their relative weightings, for each year's award, taking into account business priorities at that time.
The Committee has discretion to set different performance targets for future awards provided that the new targets are not materially less challenging, given the prevailing circumstances, than those attached to previous awards.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the PSP vesting outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the PSP vesting outcome.
Recovery and withholding Withholding applies where there has been a material misstatement, a calculation error or misleading information.
Recovery applies if within three years of vesting there has been any such event or if there has been conduct justifying summary dismissal during the performance period.
Element of remuneration package: All-employee share schemes Purpose and link to strategy All employees including executive directors are encouraged to become shareholders through the operation of the HMRC-approved Save-As-You-Earn SAYE plan and or such other HMRCapproved all-employee share plans as the Company may adopt in the future.
Operation The SAYE has standard terms under which all UK employees including executive directors, with at least three months service, can participate.
Element of remuneration package: Share ownership policy Purpose and link to strategy To align interests of management and shareholders and promote a long-term approach to performance and risk management.
Operation The CEO is expected to hold William Hill shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of salary, and other executive directors a minimum of 150% of salary.
Only shares owned outright by the executive director including any vested PSP awards held under the post-vesting holding period, count towards the satisfaction of the guideline.
The guideline is expected to be achieved within five years of appointment to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually with an expectation that executive directors will make progress towards the achievement of the shareholding policy guideline each year.
All vested deferred bonus and PSP awards after sale of shares to cover associated personal tax liabilities must be retained until the guideline is met.
Notes to the Policy Table performance measures and target setting: The performance measures that are used for annual bonus and PSP are a subset of the Companys key performance indicators.
Annual bonus The main emphasis of the bonus is on financial metrics.
In previous years, these measures have included adjusted operating profit and net revenue: in future years, the Committee may use either or both of these measures or include others.
Adjusted operating profit measures the underlying profits generated by the business and whether management is converting growth into profits effectively, and is defined as adjusted profit before interest and tax as described in note 3 to the financial statements.
Net revenue is the key indicator of the Group's topline growth, being the revenue retained from the amounts staked after paying out customer winnings and deducting free bets.
Both adjusted operating profit and net revenue are reported in the Annual Report and used internally by William Hill to measure performance.
Any non-financial element may include an appropriate mix of individual objectives or strategic targets.
Individual targets measure whether management is delivering against stated key business and personal targets, which are linked to the corporate strategy.
PSP The Committee determines the measures, as well as their relative weightings, at the point of grant for each award.
They are selected such that they are reflective of the current financial climate and business priorities at that time, with the majority of awards based on financial performance.
In previous years, performance has been measured with reference to relative TSR, EPS and selected BPMs: for future cycles, the Committee may use some or all of these measures or include others.
Full details of the performance conditions and targets applying for each award will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Targets for the BPMs are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in advance for commercial reasons.
The Company will, however, fully disclose the original targets and the extent to which they have been achieved on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will also provide a broad update on progress after each year of the performance period.
Targets for both annual bonus and PSP awards are intended to be sufficiently stretching so as to only provide reward for strong financial results or improvement.
However, given the potentially significant impact of regulatory changes on the Company and the industry as a whole, it may be necessary to adjust these targets from time to time for the impact of regulatory change, to ensure that they remain appropriately incentivising.
Any adjustment made will be described in full in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
Maximum 2,753,845 Target 1,433,845 Minimum 691,345 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 Directors Remuneration Report continued No account has been taken of share price Incentive plan discretions Remuneration scenarios for growth, or of dividend shares awarded Executive Directors The Committee will operate the annual in respect of the deferred element of The Companys remuneration policy bonus plan, EBMS and PSP legacy bonus and PSP awards over the deferral results in a significant proportion of the and current plans according to their performance periods.
remuneration received by executive respective rules, the policy set out A breakdown of the elements included in directors being dependent on Company above and in accordance with the Listing performance.
The chart below shows the remuneration scenario charts is shown Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
how total pay for the executive directors Copies of the PSP and EBMS rules are varies under three different performance available on request from the Company Fixed 000 Base Salary 550.0 scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
The Committee, consistent 2 Benefits 31.3 with market practice, retains discretion Minimum Pension 110.0 over a number of areas relating to the Comprised of the fixed elements of pay operation and administration of these Annual Bonus Target 467.5 being base salary, benefits and pension.
These include but are not limited to 000 Base salary and pension is effective as at Maximum 962.5 the following: 1 January 2017 and the benefits value is the PSP 000 Target 275.0 P11D values for 2016. who participates in the plans: Maximum 1,100.0 the timing of grant of award and Target or payment: Comprised of fixed pay and the target the size of an award and or a payment: value of bonus Interim CEO 85% of salary and normal policy PSP awards at threshold the choice of and adjustment of vesting Interim CEO 50% of salary.
performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with Maximum the policy set out above and the rules Comprised of fixed pay and the maximum of each plan including the treatment of value of bonus Interim CEO 175% of salary delisted companies for the purpose of and normal policy PSP awards Interim the TSR Comparator Group : CEO 200% of salary.
discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: Interim Chief Executive Officer determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for 40% incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and 35% adjustments required in certain 19% circumstances e. g. rights issues, 33% corporate restructuring, on a change of 100% 48% 25% control and special dividends Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Fixed Pay Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving Annual Bonus the Policy Report, authority is given to the LTIP Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders, including awards made under the EBMS and PSP.
1 For PSP awards the chart assumes the current award level of 200% of base salary for the CEO.
The rules of the PSP state that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary and, in exceptional circumstances, 300% of base salary see Policy Table above 2 These are the value of benefits for 2016 which exclude non-recurring items such as relocation expenses and expenses for attendance at certain sporting events.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 77 Governance In the event of an executive directors The Remuneration Committee retains Executive Directors service departure, any outstanding share discretion to make additional payments contracts Financial awards will be treated in accordance in respect of: i settling any statutory statements It is the Companys policy that the period with the relevant plan rules.
The default claims which the Remuneration of notice for executive directors will not treatment under the PSP and the EBMS Committee considers, in its reasonable exceed 12 months and, accordingly, the is that any outstanding awards will lapse judgement, arise in respect of the employment contracts of the executive on cessation of employment.
termination whilst seeking to ensure directors are terminable on 12 months that there is no reward for failure : and In certain prescribed good leaver notice by either party.
ii reasonable legal costs and other circumstances such as death, injury, expenses reasonably incurred by the disability and in any other circumstances In the event of an executive directors Executive in respect of the terms of the at the discretion of the Committee, departure, the Companys policy on termination arrangements and the form unvested EBMS shares will normally termination payments is as follows.
of any settlement agreement: provided fully vest on leaving and will be released The Company may pay base salary, in all cases that the Committee considers to the participant within one month employer pension contributions and the that it would be in the best interests of after the end of the retention period.
cost of benefits or if the Company so the Company to do so.
In exceptional circumstances and at the decides an amount equal to 10% of base discretion of the Committee, the leaving The contracts of the executive directors do salary at the termination date in lieu executive director may receive the not provide for any enhanced payments of notice: this may be paid in monthly deferred shares prior to the end of the in the event of a change of control of the instalments or as a lump sum in either retention period.
Company or for liquidated damages.
whole or part, as appropriate.
Under the 2014 PSP, an individual Copies of the executive directors service The Company will seek to ensure that no who leaves by reason of death, contracts are available for inspection at more is paid than is warranted in each injury, disability, ill-health, statutory the Companys registered office: Greenside individual case and will seek to apply the redundancy, agreed retirement, sale House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, principles of mitigation to any proposed of the employing company or business London, N22 7TP.
payment, where it is appropriate to out of the Group and in any other do so.
circumstances at the discretion of the Under new contracts including that Committee, will normally receive a for Philip Bowcock, monthly payments pro-rated proportion of outstanding in lieu of notice may be reduced by PSP awards which can be exercised up the amount of any base salary or fee to six months or such longer period that the executive director receives as the Committee permits and up to or is entitled to receive from any 12 months in the case of death after alternative employment or consultancy the performance period ends and arrangement during the period for which subject to performance over that compensation is paid.
Exceptionally, the Committee may decide to release the PSP shares, There is no entitlement to cash bonus following cessation of employment paid or associated deferred shares subject to the Committees assessment following notice of termination by of performance, to be exercised in the six either the employee or Company of months after the leaving date or such cessation of employment, and bad longer period as the Committee permits leavers will not receive any bonus in and up to 12 months in the case of such circumstances.
However, where death and in exceptional circumstances the individual is considered a good leaver the Committee may decide to allow a in the event of death or termination greater number of shares to vest than if of employment by reason of ill health, the level of vesting was calculated on a disability, injury, statutory redundancy, pro-rata basis.
agreed retirement, sale of employing company or business out of the Group or at the discretion of the Committee, the Companys normal policy is that a performance-related bonus will be paid at the normal time according to the normal operation of the award and this will be time pro-rated based on the proportion of the bonus year for which the individual was employed.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 78 Directors Remuneration Report continued For an internal appointment, any variable Remuneration policy across Recruitment policy pay element granted in respect of the prior the Group The Committees overriding objective role may be allowed to pay out according to is to appoint executive directors with The remuneration policy for the executive its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take the necessary background, skills and directors and senior management into account the terms of the executive experience to ensure the continuing is designed with regard to the policy director appointment.
The salary level for a success of the Company.
We recognise for colleagues across the Group as a new executive director will be determined that the increasing pace of change and whole.
The Committee is kept updated with care by the Committee, taking into technology development in our industry, through the year on general employment account the individuals background, as well as the international nature of conditions, basic salary increase skills, experience, the business criticality the William Hill business, will mean that budgets, the level of bonus pools and and nature of the role being offered, the the right individuals may often be highly payouts, and participation in share plans.
Companys circumstances and taking into sought after.
The Committee is therefore aware of account relevant external and internal how total remuneration at the executive benchmarks.
Above all, the Committee will The remuneration package for a new director level compares to the total exercise its own judgement in determining executive director will therefore be remuneration of the general population the most appropriate salary for the set in accordance with the Companys of employees.
Common approaches to new appointment.
approved remuneration policy as set out remuneration policy which apply across the on pages 72 to 79 of the DRR, subject In certain circumstances, the Committee Group include: to such modifications as are described will have set a starting salary, which is below.
The maximum level of variable a consistent approach to pay for positioned below the relevant market remuneration excluding any buyout performance is applied, with annual rate and may therefore wish to adjust the arrangements that may be offered on an bonus schemes being offered to executive directors salary, at a level above annual basis to a new executive director will all colleagues: the average increase in the Company, be in accordance with the individual plan as the individual gains experience and offering pension, medical and life limits, being 175% of salary in the annual establishes a strong performance track assurance benefits for the majority bonus plan and 225% of salary or 300% record in the role.
Conversely the salary of colleagues: of salary in exceptional circumstances, in may need to be positioned above the ensuring that salary increases for each the PSP.
relevant market rate in order to attract the category of employee are considered most appropriate candidate for the role.
In the majority of cases, where an external taking into account the overall rate of appointment is made, the individual, increase across the Group, as well as Benefits will be provided in accordance with on resignation, will forfeit incentive financial and individual performance: the approved policy.
Relocation expenses awards connected with their previous and or allowances, legal fees and other costs employment.
The Committee may relating to the recruitment may be paid encouraging broad-based share therefore decide to offer further cash as appropriate.
ownership through the use of allor share-based payments to buy out employee share plans.
The Committee recognises that our these existing entitlements by making shareholders need to fully understand awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the remuneration package for a new the Committees view, under either the executive director and is committed to Companys existing incentive plans or communicating full details and our reasons under other arrangements.
In determining for agreeing the remuneration at the the appropriate form and amount of any time of appointment.
We will identify any such award, the Committee will consider remuneration elements, which are specific various factors, including the type and to the initial appointment.
quantum of award, the length of the performance period and the performance Fees for a new Non-executive Director and vesting conditions attached to each or Chair will be set in accordance with the forfeited incentive award.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board or substantially changes role and responsibilities whilst already a Board member, different performance measures may be set for the period of time remaining in that performance year in which the change in role and responsibilities takes effect.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 79 Governance Chairman and Non-executive Directors Financial The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-executive Directors.
statements Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Non-executive Directors of appropriate calibre and experience.
Operation The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee without the Chairman present.
The remuneration policy for the Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, is determined by a sub-committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors, within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similarly sized companies to William Hill, remuneration is set taking account of the commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role.
Opportunity The Chair receives a single fee to cover all his Board duties.
Non-executive Directors receive a fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees for those Non-executive Directors who chair the primary Board committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Details of current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
They are engaged by letters of appointment, which are terminable by either party subject to three months notice period, and no further compensation in the event of such termination.
The previous remuneration policy incorrectly stated that Non-executive Director appointments are terminable by either party with no notice period.
There has been no change in policy and the Remuneration Committee apologises for the inadvertent error which was included in the previous policy.
The Chairman is also engaged by a letter of appointment, which includes an appropriate notice period.
The current letter of appointment for Gareth Davis is terminable by either party subject to six months notice period and no further compensation in the event of such termination.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and would be expected to serve for an additional three-year term, subject to satisfactory performance and annual re-election at the AGM.
Non-executive Directors may then be requested to serve for a further three-year term subject to rigorous review at the relevant time and agreement with the director.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee engages proactively with the Companys major shareholders.
For example, when any material changes are made to the remuneration policy, the Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group In setting the remuneration of the executive directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for colleagues in the Group.
William Hill operates in a number of different environments and has many colleagues who carry out diverse roles across a number of countries.
All colleagues, including directors, are paid by reference to the market rate and base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
When considering salary increases for executive directors, the Company pays close attention to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce.
The Group HR Director regularly updates the Committee on pay and conditions applying to colleagues across the Group.
During 2016, the Committee received specific updates on the Companys response to ongoing pay developments such as Gender Pay Reporting and the new National Living Wage, which from April 2016 the Company applied to all adults, irrespective of age.
The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues on the executive remuneration policy, although the Committee Chair seeks opportunities to receive input from colleagues during the year and this feedback is discussed by the Committee.
The Company also holds regular forums with employee groups and conducts an annual employee engagement survey, the results of which and follow up action plans, are presented to the Board.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 80 Directors Remuneration Report continued Supplementary fees: Adjusted operating profit will remain the Annual Report principle measure and its weighting is on Remuneration Senior Independent Director 15,000 unchanged at 60%, with the target range Audit Committee Chair 18,000 This section details the remuneration of also unchanged at 90% to 110% of target.
the Executive and Non-executive Directors In 2016, Net Revenue had a weighting of Remuneration Committee Chair including the Chairman for the financial 25% but for 2017 this will be reduced to 18,000 year ended 27 December 2016.
This report 20% to allow individual objectives to be Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Chairs annual statement will be increased from 15% to 20% and enable Chair 18,000 subject to a single advisory vote at the the inclusion of transformation goals.
Benefits and pension The Net Revenue target range will remain unchanged at 95%-105% of target.
Benefits and pension will be provided in Implementation of line with the information in the Policy Table The Committee believes this change is RemunerationPolicy in 2017 on page 73.
The Interim CEO receives a necessary to reflect the importance of the pension allowance of 20% of salary.
transformation programme and executive Base salaries directors will have specific objectives Any expenses relating to the performance Base salaries for executive directors agreed by the Committee.
of a directors duties in carrying out are normally reviewed annually by the business-related activities such as travel Committee.
The Committee takes into The adjusted operating profit, net revenue to and from Company meetings, related account a number of factors when and individual objectives themselves accommodation, attendance at Company determining increases including the are deemed to be commercially sensitive award ceremonies and attendance at budgeted increase across the workforce, and will not be disclosed prospectively.
sporting events will be settled by the the market value of the role, the individual's However, as with this year, retrospective Company.
In cases where such expenses experience, competency and performance.
disclosure of the targets and performance have been classified as taxable benefits against them will be provided in next years Philip Bowcocks salary was set at his by HMRC, any related personal tax due will report.
In setting the performance range by appointment as Interim CEO in July 2016. also be settled by the Company to ensure measure, the Committee took into account that the director is not out of pocket.
His current base salary as at a range of data points, including the annual plan, market expectations, known 1January2017 is: Annual bonus regulatory changes and that 2017 is a non- 2017 2016 Increase The annual bonus threshold, target and tournament year.
maximum levels of bonus for 2017 as a Philip percentage of base salary are as follows: The Remuneration Committee is Bowcock 550,000 550,000 0% satisfied that the annual bonus plan Executive 2016 salary shown is James Henderson's director Threshold Target Maximum remains stretching and challenging for annualised 2016 CEO salary.
Philip's annualised management, and acts to support our Philip salary as Group CFO in 2016 was 420,000. business priorities and strategic objectives.
Bowcock 17.5% 85% 175% At the time of publication, the Interim CFO Deferral of bonus into shares will apply in who is provided on secondment is not a In 2016, Executive Directors annual accordance with the policy.
member of the Board and therefore his bonuses were based 60% on adjusted remuneration is not included in this section Long-term incentives operating profit, 25% on net revenue and or in the table of payments received 15% on individual objectives.
In order to ensure that the permanent in 2016.
CEO and the recently appointed Board As with previous years, the Committee members are able to participate in the Chairman and Non-executive has sought to ensure strategic alignment design and target setting process for the Directorsfees with the priorities outlined earlier in the 2017 LTIP, the award will be made later The Chairmans fee and Non-executive report in considering the 2017 bonus design in 2017 after the interim results, which Directors fees remain unchanged in 2017. whilst recognising the changes that were are published in August 2017.
We are The Chairman's fee was last increased made in 2016.
As such, it has decided to still considering the right combination of on 1 September 2015.
The Non-executive make no changes to quantum and to keep measures and targets for this award, and Directors fees were last increased on the present structure of 3 measures but intend to consult with leading shareholders 1 October 2014. make a small adjustment to the weightings during the year.
Details of these awards will to take account of the transformation Chairmans fee 300,000 be made at the time of grant and in next programme set out on page 11.
As you will year's Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-executive Directors base fee have read, the transformation will be a key 55,000 focus for the business this year.
A further two-year holding period will apply after vesting.
1 Adjusted operating profit is defined as adjusted profit before interest and tax.
We previously referred to this metric as Operating Profit and have updated its naming to clarify that it is an adjusted measure.
Further detail on adjusted measures is provided in note 3 to the financial statements 2 Net revenue is the revenue retained from the amounts staked after paying out customer winnings and deducting free bets 3 Individual objectives will include specific transformation goals linked to each executive director, as well as customer, colleague, leadership and compliance goals Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 81 Governance Remuneration in 2016 Financial statements Audited information Single total figure of remuneration for each director BIK arising from Fees basic Benefits in performance Annual Other 1 2 salary kind BIK of duties bonuses Pension PSP payments Total Name of director Year Executive Directors 5 Philip Bowcock from 2016 477,655 28,242 3,487 0 96,940 0 606,323 3 4 1November 2015 2015 70,000 1,599 0 0 14,000 85,599 Non-executive Directors Gareth Davis 2016 300,000 1,743 301,743 2015 286,667 32,554 319,221 6 Roy Gardner 2016 70,000 3,196 73,196 2015 70,000 19,698 89,698 Ashley Highfield 2016 73,000 3,196 73,196 2015 73,000 2,793 75,793 Georgina Harvey 2016 55,000 3,196 58,196 2015 55,000 2,793 57,793 David Lowden 2016 73,000 3,420 76,420 2015 73,000 3,040 76,040 Imelda Walsh 2016 73,000 3,196 76,196 2015 73,000 2,793 75,793 Former directors James Henderson 2016 307,638 19,109 7,636 0 61,548 0 395,931 7 to21July 2016 2015 550,000 218,453 23,316 0 110,000 0 12,648 914,417 1 Following a review by HMRC in 2014, certain expenses relating to the performance of a directors duties not included in the Benefits in Kind column above in carrying out activities such as travel to and from Company meetings, related accommodation, attendance at Company award ceremonies and attendance at sporting events have now been classified as taxable benefits.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the director is not out of pocket by settling the related tax via a PAYE Settlement Agreement PSA with the HMRC.
In line with current regulations, these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the benefits arising from performance of duties column.
The figures shown include the cost of the taxable benefit plus the related tax and National Insurance charge.
2 James Hendersons value reflects the gain on his 2012 SAYE share options.
The 2012 SAYE gain is calculated using the share price of 397 pence on 3 August 2015 the first day of vesting against the exercise price of 165 pence.
3 Philips 2016 remuneration reflects his salary of 420,000 in his role as CFO up to and including 20 July 2016, and his salary of 550,000 as Interim CEO thereafter.
His amounts for 2015 reflect the two month period he was on the Board in during the year after his appointment to the Board as CFO on 1 November 2015.
4 During his period as Interim CEO, the CFO role has been filled on an interim basis but with no appointment made to the Board 5 Contractual benefits for Philip Bowcock included private healthcare, life assurance, income protection and Company car allowance.
6 Sir Roy Gardners taxable expenses for 2015 include 9,298 for transitional secretarial and administrative assistance relating to his duties for the Company.
7 James remuneration in 2016 reflects the period until 21 July 2016, the date he stepped down from the Board with immediate effect.
Full details of Jamesexit arrangements are included on page 86.
Contractual benefits for James Henderson included private healthcare, life assurance, income protection and Companycar.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 82 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2016 annual bonus The bonus was split between financial metrics, which had a weighting of 85% and individual objectives, which had a weighting of 15%.
The table below shows how these metrics are aligned with our strategic KPIs.
The 85% weighting on financial metrics included 60% on adjusted operating profit and 25% on net revenue.
Both the adjusted operating profit and net revenue elements of the 2016 were below threshold levels so neither of these elements became payable.
Adjusted operating profit of 261.5m was below the threshold target of 284.3m and net revenue of 1,603.8m was below the threshold target of 1,623.4m.
2016 Adjusted Operating 2016 Actual Adjusted 2016 2016 Actual 1 2 Performance ProfitTargets OperatingProfit Performance Net Revenue Targets Net Revenue Threshold 284.3m Threshold 1,623.4m Target 315.9m 261.5m Target 1,708.8m 1,603.8m Maximum 347.5m Maximum 1,794.2m 1 Group KPI, which measures success in delivering top-line growth while controlling costs 2 Group KPI to assess top-line growth The remaining 15% weighting was based on individual objectives, which for Philip were split between his time as CFO and Interim CEO.
In respect of his time as Group CFO, these consisted of: taking a lead and supporting on key strategic priorities: maintaining an effective risk culture and control environment with a high level of regulatory compliance: and improving the strength of the Finance function.
In respect of his time as Interim CEO, this consisted of: Continuing the turnaround of Online: Delivering the technology roadmap: Driving increased efficiencies across the Group: and Refocussing the growth and expansion of the business.
Although Philip, as the interim CEO and in his previous role of CFO, achieved many of the objectives set, no bonus is payable in respect of2016 performance as the Group did not meet the adjusted operating profit threshold.
Long-term incentives vesting in relation to performance ending in 2016 Due to the change from a three-year to a four-year performance period in 2014, no executive director held any long-term incentive awards, which were eligible to vest in 2016.
PSP and EBMS awards granted in 2016 Percentage vesting Basis of award Shares Face value of Maximum for threshold 1 Scheme granted awarded award vesting performance Vesting period Philip Bowcock PSP 2016 175% of 243,701 735,000 100% 25% Performance measured salary over the four financial years ending 31December2019.
James PSP 2016 200% of 364,722 1,100,000 100% 25% 2 Awards will vest to Henderson salary participants on the fourth anniversary of grant subject to continued employment 1 The awards granted to James Henderson and Philip Bowcock have face values based on a share price of 301.6p being the share price on the date of grant, 17May 2016.
2 Under the PSP rules, James Hendersons award lapsed upon ceasing employment.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 83 Governance The PSP awards are in the form of nil-cost options and are subject to three performance conditions relative TSR, EPS growth and Business Performance Measures BPMs each measured over four years commencing on 30 December 2015.
Financial statements Measure Link to strategy Details of performance condition Relative Total Shareholder This supports our objective to create The Companys TSR is measured over the period 30 December Return 50% superior value for shareholders.
2015 to 31 December 2019 against the returns of a group of 16 1 travel and leisure companies.
If TSR is: Below median, none of this element will vest: At median, 25% vests: At upper quartile or better, 100% vests For performance between median and upper quartile, vesting is on a straight line basis.
Earnings per Share 25% A Group KPI the key indicator of the Based on aggregate EPS over the four-year performance period.
Groups growth after allowing for all If aggregate EPS is: costs including interest and tax Less than 106 pence, none of this element will vest: 106 pence, 25% vests: 126 pence, 100% vests For performance between 106 and 126 pence, vesting is on a straight-line basis.
These targets imply a compound annual growth rate range of 3-10%, which the Committee believes is challenging in light of the Groups earnings projections over the four-year period.
Business Performance Our strategy is to increase the Three BPMs apply Mobile Sportsbook net revenue growth, Measures 25% diversification of the Groups Mobile Gaming net revenue growth and Australia Digital net revenues by growing our digital and revenue growth each with an equal weighting.
The For each measure, a sliding scale of four-year growth target was three measures selected reflect the set using the 2015 actual net revenues result as the base figure: Companys focus on capitalising on the Mobile Sportsbook 176.5m structural shift to mobile gaming and Mobile Gaming 118.0m on international expansion by exploiting Australia Digital $150.0m its core capabilities in a second growth None of the award relating to each measure will vest if territory.
performance is below threshold, 25% will vest at threshold with full vesting for maximum performance or better.
Awards vest on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum.
Maximum performance was set so as to significantly exceed the Companys internal expectations at the time.
The Committee considers that the targets applying to each BPM are demanding but too sensitive to disclose in advance for commercial reasons.
1 2016 TSR group: 888, Betsson, Enterprise Inns, Greene King, GVC, International Game Technology, JD Wetherspoon, Ladbrokes Coral amended from Ladbrokes following the completion of the merger with Coral on 1st November 2016, Marstons, Mitchells & Butlers, OPAP, Paddy Power Betfair, Playtech, Rank, The Restaurant Group, Unibet.
In 2015, as the threshold level of adjusted operating profit target was not met, and therefore no bonus was payable, as a consequence no EBMS awards were made in 2016.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 84 Directors Remuneration Report continued Outstanding PSP, EBMS and SAYE share awards The table below sets out details of the executive directors outstanding awards under the PSP, EBMS and SAYE plans: Number of Number of shares at shares at Date 29 December Granted during Lapsed during Exercised during 27 December from which Name of director Scheme 2015 the period the period the period 2016 exercisable Expiry date Philip Bowcock PSP 2015 231,788 231,788 Nov 2019 Nov 2025 PSP 2016 243,701 243,701 May 2020 May 2026 SAYE 2016 6,818 6,818 Aug 2019 Feb 2020 Total 231,788 250,519 482,307 James PSP 2013 70,531 70,531 Apr 2016 Apr 2023 Henderson PSP 2014 161,440 161,440 Mar 2018 May 2024 former PSP 2015 286,533 286,533 Mar 2019 Mar 2025 director PSP 2016 364,722 364,722 May 2020 May 2026 1 EBMS 2013 22,673 24,401 Apr 2016 May 2016 EBMS 2015 77,754 77,754 Mar 2018 Apr 2018 SAYE 2014 3,296 3,296 Aug 2017 Feb 2018 SAYE 2015 2,970 2,970 Aug 2018 Feb 2019 Total 625,197 364,722 889,492 24,401 77,754 Notes: 2013 PSP awards are subject to two performance conditions, with half subject to a relative TSR measure and half subject to an aggregate adjusted EPS measure, both measured over three financial years.
Relative TSR measures the Company's TSR performance against a comparator group of gaming and leisure companies.
For a ranking below median, none of this element will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above the upper quartile.
2014 PSP awards are based half on a relative TSR measure, one quarter is based on EPS compound annual growth as measured on a point to point basis by comparing the EPS for 2017 against 2013.
None of this element will vest if growth is less than 4% p. a. and 100% will vest for 8% p. a. or better.
The remaining quarter is based on BPMs.
Performance for all metrics is measured over four financial years.
2015 PSP awards are based half on a relative TSR measure, one quarter is based on EPS compound annual growth as measured on a point to point basis by comparing the EPS for 2017 against 2013.
None of this element will vest if growth is less than 2% p. a. and 100% will vest for 6% p. a. or better.
The Committee has the power, under the approved remuneration policy, to adjust the PSP vesting outcome if it considers this is inconsistent with the Group's overall performance, see page 75 for more detail.
EBMS awards are deferred bonus shares, which will vest after three years, subject to continued employment only.
1 This number includes dividend shares.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 85 Governance Update on Business Performance Measures for 2014, 2015 and 2016 PSP awards Financial A sliding scale of four-year growth targets was set for the three BPMs net revenue growth in mobile Sportsbook, mobile gaming and statements Australia digital using the actual result for the financial year prior to grant as the base figure representing 25% of the total award.
The following table shows performance in all three areas since 2013.
Mobile Mobile Australia Net Revenues sportsbook gaming digital 1 2013 95.9m 40.0m $156.1m 2014 141.9m 86.8m $169.1m 2015 176.5m 118.0m $150.0m 2016 190.2m 144.8m $175.0m 1 Annualised to reflect William Hills ownership of Sportingbet and tomwaterhouse.
The graphic below provides an indication of vesting performance based on performance to 27 December 2016 against the target range.
2014 award based on three years performance out of four Threshold Target Maximum Mobile Sportsbook 2013 base year 95.9m Mobile Gaming 2013 base year 40.0m Australia Digital 2013 base year $156.1m 2015 award based on two years performance out of four Threshold Target Maximum Mobile Sportsbook 2014 base year 141.9m Mobile Gaming 2014 base year 86.8m Australia Digital 2014 base year $169.1m 2016 award based on one years performance out of four Threshold Target Maximum Mobile Sportsbook 2015 base year 176.5m Mobile Gaming 2015 base year 118.0m Australia Digital 2015 base year $150.0m Current indicative outcome.
Further details on the BPMs are shown as part of the Key Performance Indicators section of the Annual Report on page 18.
Actual vesting levels will be dependent on performance over the full four-year performance period.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 86 Directors Remuneration Report continued Table of directors share interests The share interests of each person who was a director of the Company during the year up to 27 December 2016 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were as follows: % of salary held under share ownership 1 Owned PSP awards EBMS awards SAYE Total policy Name of director 29.12.15 27.12.16 Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested 27.12.16 27.12.16 Executive Directors Philip Bowcock 0 0 475,489 6,818 482,307 0% Non-executive Directors Gareth Davis 146,488 146,488 146,488 Roy Gardner 10,000 12,600 12,600 David Lowden 12,222 12,222 12,222 Ashley Highfield 8,520 8,520 8,520 Georgina Harvey 12,221 12,221 12,221 Imelda Walsh 12,222 12,222 12,222 Former Directors James 2 3 Henderson 101,992 101,992 77,754 179,746 1 Calculated as legally owned shares held on 27 December 2016 multiplied by the average of the three month share price to 27 December 2016 296p divided by 2017 base salary.
The share ownership policy is summarised on page 75.
2 James Hendersons 77,754 unvested EBMS awards relate to the grant made on 9 March 2015 to reflect performance in 2014 both before and after his appointment as CEO on 4 July 2014.
3 James Henderson ceased to be a director on 21 July 2016.
His closing value is based on the number of shares he held at the time he stepped down from the Board.
During the period 27 December 2016 to 26 February 2017, there have been no changes in the directors share interests.
Remuneration package for the Interim Chief Executive Officer Philip Bowcock was appointed Interim CEO with effect from 21 July 2016.
His remuneration at this point was increased such that it was in line with that offered to the previous CEO: Base salary 550,000.
Bonus opportunity of 175% of salary, measured pro-rata for time in-post as Interim CEO.
No change to percentage cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions and no change to other benefits.
Prior to his appointment as Interim CEO, Philip had already been granted an LTIP award of 175% of salary based on his salary as CFO.
Payments for loss of office The former CEO, James Henderson, stepped down from the Board with immediate effect on 21 July 2016.
The Committee followed established good practice in respect of his termination arrangements and in line with the provisions of our Directors' Remuneration Policy.
We fully disclosed the agreed terms at the time of the announcement.
Under the terms of James contract, he was entitled to 12 months notice, or payments in lieu.
James remained an employee for a period of four weeks for transition purposes and thereafter for the remainder of his notice period will receive base salary, pension contributions and the cost of benefits in monthly instalments, subject to mitigation where alternative employment or consultancy is undertaken.
In accordance with the Policy, there was no entitlement to bonus following notice of termination In 2015, James was awarded 77,754 deferred bonus shares under the EBMS, based on performance over the 2014 financial year.
These shares are due to vest in 2018, and are not subject to further performance conditions.
The Committee agreed that this award will not lapse on cessation, and will be released in March 2018 under its normal vesting cycle.
The Committee took this decision having noted that that the award was based on performance previously delivered and in part prior to his appointment to the Board and as CEO.
In accordance with the PSP plan rules, James Henderson was not treated as a good leaver and his outstanding share awards under this plan have lapsed in full.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 87 Governance Total shareholder return chart and Chief Executive earnings history Financial The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance compared with that of the performance of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices.
statements As a member of both indices in recent times, the Committee believes both indices are appropriate comparisons for William Hill.
400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 William Hill FTSE 100 Index FTSE 250 Index Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 27 December 2016, of 100 invested in William Hill on 30 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices on the same date.
The single total remuneration history of the CEO is shown in the table below.
In both 2014 and 2016, there were two CEOs and their remuneration has been shown separately as required by the regulations.
In 2014, using a weighted average based on the applicable single figure for the time period each person was CEO, the weighted average single figure remuneration is 3,082,163 and on the same basis for 2016 it is 702,050.
2 Pay from 1 August 2014 plus 2012 PSP Award.
5 Includes value of retention bonus at grant.
An additional 46,649 dividend shares accrued over the vesting period valued at 187,482 as at 31 December 2013.
Total Shareholder Return rebased William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 88 Directors Remuneration Report continued Change in remuneration of the CEO The change in the CEOs remuneration is compared to the change in remuneration of all full-time salaried colleagues across the Retail, Online and Group areas of the UK business that were employed throughout 2015 and 2016.
Part-time and hourly paid colleagues in either 2015 or 2016 have been excluded from the comparison figure as a more meaningful analysis can be achieved by comparing changes in remuneration for relevant full time and salaried staff.
Base salary for salaried employees is lower in 2016 due to the changes made to the structure of the Retail business as described on page 27 and associated salaries.
Excluding this impacted population, the normalised increase is 3.1% which encompasses the new National Living Wage in April 2016, which was implemented for all instead of just those aged 25 and over as required, along with other salary increases but excludes promotional increases.
3 Taxable benefits excludes relocation costs and taxable expenses.
4 2015 CEO Taxable Benefits includes 6 months of increased car benefit from July 2015.
2016 value includes the full year value 5 Bonus for salaried employees includes the implementation of a new quarterly bonus scheme for our Retail staff Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in 2016 compared to 2015.
2016 2015 % Change Profit after tax 164.5m 189.9m -13% Shareholder distributions 204.0m 108.4m 88% Employee remuneration costs 348.9m 321.4m 9% Shareholder distributions includes share buyback of 95.0m.
Excluding this would result in a percentage change from 2015 of 0.6% Auditable sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration The auditable sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration are shown from page 81 starting with the single total figure of remuneration for each director up to page 86 including the section titled Payments for loss of office.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Committee during 2016 are listed in the table below.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
No director plays a part in any discussion directly relating to their own remuneration.
Name Imelda Walsh Chair Gareth Davis David Lowden Georgina Harvey Sir Roy Gardner The Groups Company Secretary, Luke Thomas, acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 89 Governance Advice to the Committee Statement of shareholder Committee activity during voting at 2016 AGM Financial During 2016, the Committee consulted the year statements the CEO, the CFO and Group HR Director At the 2016 AGM, a resolution was The following table sets out the major about remuneration items relating proposed for shareholders to approve the issues covered by the Committee over to individuals other than themselves.
the course of the year: Luke Thomas, Company Secretary, The following votes were received: also provided corporate governance January 2016 2015 Annual Report of Directors Remuneration guidance support to the Committee.
Consideration of annual bonus design Total number of % of votes Appropriate Group colleagues and external votes cast for 2016 advisers may attend Committee Meetings Proposal on changes to pension For 605,309,330 99.34% at the invitation of the Chair.
provision for high earners Against 4,022,538 0.66% Colleagues are not specifically consulted Approval of operation of all employee Total 609,331,868 100.0% on executive remuneration but all share schemes in 2016 Withheld 731,210 colleagues are invited to take part in our Committee effectiveness evaluation annual Your Say survey and the Board February 2016 A majority over 50% of the votes cast regularly reviews engagement data and is particularly aware of any trends, comments was required for the resolution to be Approve 2015 Directors passed, and the 2015 Annual Report on and concerns around pay.
In addition, the Remuneration Report Colleague Forum gives colleagues the Remuneration was duly approved by Bonus outcomes in respect of 2015 shareholders.
The Committee considers opportunity to ask questions of senior Confirmation that 2013 PSP awards management, via elected representatives.
that the level of support received had lapsed, as the threshold level of at the 2016 AGM was high, and as a From 2017, the Committee Chair will be performance had not been achieved attending the forum on an annual basis result it was not necessary to provide Release of 2012 EBMS awards and additional disclosure on the reasons for to answer questions raised by employee approval of any matching shares for representatives concerning executive pay.
those votes which were cast against.
participants below Board level As mentioned previously in this report, Review of executive shareholdings the Committee will consult with its External advisers against the guidelines largest shareholders, as appropriate, on Approval of 2016 annual bonus design The Committee is advised by New Bridge remuneration arrangements.
Street NBS, who were appointed following Approval of 2016 PSP design a competitive tender in 2012.
NBS is a Approval May 2016 member of the Remuneration Consultants This report was approved by the Board of Approval of 2016 PSP awards Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
During 2016, NBSs parent directors on 24 February 2017 and signed Outline of approach to 2017 on its behalf by: company, Aon, provided other services to Remuneration Policy Review the Company including insurance broking Imelda Walsh July 2016 and pensions advice.
Appropriate controls Chair, Remuneration Committee Ad hoc meeting - Exit terms for the exist to ensure no conflicts of interest outgoing CEO and remuneration for arise and the Committee is comfortable Interim CEO that NBSs advice to the Committee is independent and objective.
July 2016 During the year, NBS provided advice Exit terms for the outgoing CEO to the Committee in respect of the andremuneration for Interim CEO remuneration review and a range of other Incentives update at half year issues relating to executive pay, in particular 2017 Remuneration Policy the corporate activity mentioned earlier.
Review Update Additional activities in 2016 included October 2016 advice in respect of the exit arrangements for James Henderson, the review of the Impact of potential Corporate Events on Incentive Plans remuneration policy, advice in relation to various corporate activity in 2016.
Fees for 2017 Remuneration Policy this advice were 136,000. Review Update VAT of 20% was paid on the adviser fees shown Update on approach to all-employee above which William Hill does not reclaim.
2017 salary review November 2016 Ad hoc meeting Corporate Events update December 2016 2017 Remuneration Policy Review Proposals Update on external legislative, regulatory and other developments Incentives update
