Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 35 Directors remuneration policy: extract Our Directors remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM held on 5 June 2014 and applies from that date.
A summary of the remuneration policy table from the 2013 14 Directors remuneration policy report, is reproduced below for information only.
The full Directors remuneration policy report is contained on pages 61 to 66 of the 2013 14 Annual report which is available in the investor relations section of the Groups website: www.
com Remuneration policy table Executive Directors ELEMENT AND HOW IT PERFORMANCE SUPPORTS STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY MEASURES AND PERIOD Base salaries are set by the Committee on appointment and then Salary increases will ordinarily Not applicable.
Base salary normally reviewed annually.
be in line with salary The Committees policy is to set increases across the Group.
base salaries competitively to In setting and reviewing salary levels, the Committee considers The Committee may award attract and retain the best talent, the responsibilities of the role, progression in the role, individual increases above this level which is critical to the Groups performance including any change in responsibilities, skills, where this is warranted due success and delivery of the strategy.
experience and pay levels and structure throughout the Group.
to a change in the scope or Base salary is part of a total responsibilities of the role, The Committee also has regard to rates for similar roles in comparator remuneration package which to reflect progression in the companies, both in FTSE 100 retailers and UK-based companies rewards stretching performance role e. g. staged increases of a similar size and complexity, but seeks to avoid the automatic aligned to the Groups strategy.
for a recent appointment ratcheting effects of following benchmark levels of salary.
or to remain competitive in the market.
Current base salary levels are disclosed on page 37.
Executive Directors are entitled to a car allowance or other car The maximum car allowance Not applicable.
Benefits benefit, transport costs, private health provision, life assurance, is currently 24,000.
The cost The Company provides a market and normal staff discount entitlement.
Executive Directors are also to the Company of providing competitive benefits package for entitled to participate in the all employee share save schemes and other benefits depends on Executive Directors to support any other all employee share plan which the Company may operate the nature of the benefit and in the ability to recruit and retain on the same terms as all other UK-based employees.
The Committee can vary from year-to-year.
reviews benefit provision from time-to-time and retains flexibility to Benefit provision will be add or remove benefits if necessary to ensure that benefit provision maintained at a level which remains market competitive or to meet the operational needs of the is competitive.
business for example, through the payment of relocation expenses.
Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the Groups The Morrisons Retirement Not applicable.
Pension benefits cash balance pension arrangement known as the Morrisons Saver Plan guarantees a value The Company provides a market Retirement Saver Plan.
Individuals contribute 5% of capped base of the cash balance in the competitive retirement provision for salary and all new eligible employees are automatically enrolled plan of 24% of pensionable Executive Directors which is aligned into this arrangement.
A 10% cash salary supplement in lieu of pay assuming retirement at with retirement benefits available Company pension contributions applies on base salary above age 65 years adjusted for throughout the Group.
A cash alternative to pension provision is provided where the A maximum 10% cash salary Groups standard pension provision is not appropriate, for example, supplement applies above where an Executive Director has reached the Lifetime Allowance.
Executive Directors may elect to receive this cash salary supplement Where an Executive in lieu of pension of broadly the same value as would accrue on Director receives a cash an annual basis in the pension plan.
salary supplement only, the maximum supplement payable is 25% of salary.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Governance 36 Directors remuneration report continued ELEMENT AND HOW IT PERFORMANCE SUPPORTS STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY MEASURES AND PERIOD Bonus awards are made annually subject The maximum bonus Annual bonus awards are subject to the following performance Annual bonus to a mix of financial and non-financial potential for Executive measures: Annual bonus awards are performance measures.
Achievement of Directors is 200% of 50% is based on underlying profit before tax performance: designed to incentivise and each performance element is assessed base salary.
reward achievement of the 30% is linked to achievement of a number of strategic corporate independently and the level of payout is The number of shares Groups short term financial scorecard measures: and determined by the Committee after the subject to the deferred and strategic objectives 20% is linked to achievement of personal objectives.
end of the relevant financial year.
award is determined by and personal performance The measures and weightings are set by the Committee on an 50% of any bonus payable is paid in cash reference to the bonus objectives.
annual basis and each element is assessed independently at the end with the other 50% deferred in shares under and the share price Compulsory deferral is designed of each year.
Achievement of threshold performance will result in the deferred share bonus plan, normally for on the date of award.
to encourage retention and a payout of 20% of the underlying profit element i. e. 10% of the a period of three years.
The Committee has further align the interests of maximum bonus potential.
discretion to allow a higher level of deferral.
the Executive Directors with Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting Achievement of one of the strategic corporate scorecard measures shareholders.
period and are paid at the time of vesting or one of the personal objectives is regarded as threshold on the number of shares that vest.
Deferred share awards are not subject to any further performance conditions.
Awards will normally vest three years after the date of award but may be forfeited if the individual leaves employment before the vesting date.
Awards are made annually subject to The maximum annual LTIP awards are subject to the following performance measures: LTIP performance measures set by the individual award level 60% is based on cumulative free cash flow: Awards under the LTIP are Committee, which are aligned with business under the plan is 300% 20% is based on underlying earnings per share EPS growth: and designed to incentivise and strategy and the Groups stated KPIs.
reward achievement of the 20% is based on total sales excluding fuel and VAT.
Achievement of each element is assessed The current annual Groups long term strategic Achievement of threshold performance will ordinarily result in independently.
award level for objectives and creation of vesting of 25% of each element with 100% vesting for maximum Executive Directors Awards will normally vest three years after value for shareholders through performance.
However, the Committee has discretion to reduce is 240% of salary.
The Committee retains execution of the strategy.
the level of vesting at threshold.
discretion to introduce a holding period which would apply after the award A return on capital employed ROCE underpin applies to the has vested.
vesting of the total LTIP award.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the LTIP awards granted prior to 2014 are subject to the following performance period and are paid at the time performance measures: of vesting on the number of shares that vest.
75% is based on growth in underlying EPS relative to RPI: and 25% is based on like-for-like non-fuel sales relative to the Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD index.
Achievement of threshold performance will result in vesting of 25% of each element with 100% vesting for maximum performance.
No award can vest under the like-for-like sales element unless the threshold EPS target has been met.
For all awards, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the vesting calculations as set out in these notes.
Clawback and malus As noted in last years Directors remuneration report, the Committee has incorporated clawback into the Companys incentive plans in addition to the existing malus provisions in the Companys DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan and LTIP.
Annual cash bonus and DSBP awards made in respect of 2015 16 are subject to clawback and malus provisions.
Clawback and malus provisions apply to LTIP awards granted from April 2015 onwards.
Clawback provisions will apply for three years following payment of a cash bonus malus already applies to the deferred share element for a three year period and two years following vesting of an LTIP award i. e. five years from grant.
Awards may be clawed back in the following circumstances: material misstatement of results: gross misconduct: reputational damage: and or performance assessment error.
