GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Report of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Wizz Air has enjoyed a very successful first full financial year as a listed company.
During the 2016 financial year the Company delivered record underlying net profits of 223.9 million, seeing unit operating cost fall by 5.4 per cent.
at the same time as revenue growth of 16.4 per cent.
The strength of Wizz Airs performance was reflected in a share price which, as at 31 March 2016, was 60 per cent.
higher than the offering price in the Companys initial public offering.
Over the year, therefore, the Directors and senior management have ensured that the Companys business has delivered results that have significantly increased Shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to ensuring that the Companys Remuneration Policy remains an effective way to align the interests of the Directors and senior management with those of the Companys Shareholders and that it provides appropriate incentivisation to continue to deliver shareholder value.
However, the Remuneration Committee is also focused on the Companys ultra-low-cost business model, and the governing principle that will continue to be applied is that remuneration must be competitive whilst not being more than is necessary to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to continue to run the Company successfully, and that a significant proportion of remuneration remains performance based.
Indeed, this is a principle which is applied consistently throughout the Company for all employees.
As a company, we value our Shareholders feedback, including on remuneration matters.
I was pleased that, following consultation with a large number of our key Shareholders, the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy received overwhelming support and approval from our investors.
As contemplated in the approved Directors Remuneration Policy, successful Company performance is reflected in the remuneration of the Executive Director and senior management.
Under our Short-term Incentive Plan, performance against the four measures of underlying profit after tax, ex-fuel cost per available seat kilometre, on-time performance and individual performance assessment resulted in an average payout equivalent to 179 per cent.
Further details of the targets for the Short-term Incentive Plan applicable for the 2016 financial year are provided on page 54.
As reported in the Companys annual report for the 2015 financial year, the Remuneration Committee planned to make the first award under the approved Long-term Incentive Plan during the 2016 financial year.
This first award was made in July 2015 to officers and to heads of function.
The award is due to vest in July 2018 with level of vesting for the major part of the award based on a combination of relative total shareholder return TSR performance compared to selected European airlines and fully diluted earnings per share growth.
Whilst the Company is incorporated in Jersey, we have chosen voluntarily to comply in all material respects with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 and related regulations in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy, underlining the Companys commitment to adopt best UK corporate governance practice.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in September 2015 with the intention that it should apply for three years.
Following a review of the policy during the year, the Remuneration Committee agreed that it remains appropriate and is aligned with the overall strategy of the Company and, therefore, we will not be asking Shareholders to vote on the policy at this years Annual General Meeting, although there will be an advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Nonetheless, we shall continue to review the Directors Remuneration Policy to ensure that it remains appropriate and aligned with overall strategy even before it is next due to be put before Shareholders for approval.
In order to ensure that this is the case, it is important that the Remuneration Committee has access to expert advice and I am pleased to report that, following a competitive tender process, Willis Towers Watson was appointed to provide this expert advice to the Remuneration Committee.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 47 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Report of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued The 2016 financial year has also seen changes in the constitution of the Remuneration Committee.
At the time of the Companys initial public offering in March 2015, the Directors approved an exception to the requirement that all members of the Remuneration Committee should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Specifically, the Directors agreed that Mr John R. Wilson, a Non-Executive Director appointed by Indigo, should remain a member of the Remuneration Committee until 2 March 2016 at the latest, given his valuable contribution to the Remuneration Committee and its predecessor the Compensation Committee and wide and expert knowledge of remuneration matters.
As contemplated by the Directors, Mr Wilson stepped down from the Remuneration Committee as of 1 March 2016 and I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his outstanding contribution and wise counsel as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
I am delighted to welcome Susan Hooper as the third member of the Remuneration Committee as of 1 March 2016.
I am very much looking forward to working with Ms Hooper and her experience both as a senior executive and as a non-executive director of a number of listed companies, and her knowledge of remuneration issues, will be invaluable to the Remuneration Committee in the coming years.
The Remuneration Committees performance was evaluated by Lintstock Limited as part of the broader Board performance evaluation.
The Remuneration Committees performance was evaluated positively, but with a recognition that the members of the Remuneration Committee would benefit from more regular briefings on shareholder views and the wider remuneration climate.
I will therefore be arranging for the Remuneration Committees advisers, Willis Towers Watson, to requested to make a presentation every six months to the Remuneration Committee, to detail any developing trends and foster discussion of any issues.
In conclusion, I would reiterate that Wizz Air is proud of the outstanding results delivered in the 2016 financial year.
We remain committed to ensuring that our Remuneration Policy continues to incentivise delivery of outstanding results in the future, but in a way that appropriately aligns the interests of the Directors and senior management with those of the Companys Shareholders.
We believe that the approved Directors Remuneration Policy does this in a way which is consistent with the Companys current growth phase and its desire to bring simplicity to all areas of its operation.
Simplicity of process and practice reflects the Companys strategy to focus on achieving the lowest possible unit operating cost while improving customers experience.
We look forward to the continued support of our Shareholders and welcome any questions or suggestions that you may have to further align our Remuneration Policy with the interests of our investors.
Guido Demuynck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 48 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Introduction The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 29 September 2015.
The intention is that the policy, as approved, will apply until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2018.
This Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration earned for the 2016 financial year in accordance with the approved Directors Remuneration Policy pages 49 to 53 and the planned application of our Remuneration Policy for the 2017 financial year page 57.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations, which the Company has chosen to comply with in all material respects as a matter of best practice.
For transparency, we have included the approved Directors Remuneration Policy in full in this report although there will not be a vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy at this years Annual General Meeting.
The definitive Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders is outlined in the Companys annual report for the 2015 financial year and is available to view at corporate.
Remuneration Policy Introduction Our principal consideration when determining the Remuneration Policy is to ensure that it supports our company strategy and business objectives, as well as to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to run the Company successfully without paying more than is necessary.
In the selection of performance measures for both the annual performance bonus and the Long-term Incentive Plan the Remuneration Committee takes into account the Groups strategic objectives and short and long-term business priorities.
The performance targets are set in accordance with the Groups annual operating plan and are reviewed annually to ensure that they are sufficiently stretching.
In selecting the targets the Remuneration Committee also takes into account analysts forecasts, economic conditions and the Remuneration Committees expectation of performance over the relevant period.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to: E attract, retain and motivate executive management without paying more than is necessary: E incentivise the successful execution of the Companys business strategy: and E align the Executive Directors long-term interests with those of Shareholders.
Executive Director remuneration The Chief Executive Officer is currently the Companys sole Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Companys Remuneration Policy supports the Companys ultra-low-cost business model by incentivising senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer, to continue to strive to increase the Companys cost advantage while improving the customers experience.
The Chief Executive Officer currently receives a base salary and is eligible for an annual performance bonus of up to 200 per cent.
of base salary and a long-term incentive award of up to 250 per cent.
of base salary, with payments being dependent on the Company achieving certain financial and operational targets.
In deciding appropriate remuneration levels, the Remuneration Committee takes into account, among other things, the levels paid at competitor low-cost carriers.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 49 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director remuneration continued Future policy table: Executive Directors Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity sums paid Base salary To provide the core Salaries will be reviewed The Remuneration Committee reward for the role.
annually, with any increase will consider the individual To attract, retain and being awarded at the discretion salary of Executive Directors at motivate executive of the Remuneration Committee.
management without The Executive Directors salary There are no provisions for the paying more than for the 2016 financial year is recovery of sums paid or the necessary.
detailed in the Annual Report withholding of any payment on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee may take into account a number of factors in deciding whether an increase should be made, including benchmarking against selected airlines.
Benefits To attract, retain and Executive Directors are There are no provisions for the motivate executive covered by the Companys recovery of sums paid or the management without group personal accident and withholding of any payments paying more than life assurance cover, which is in relating to benefits.
place for all employees 2x salary.
Pension To attract, retain and The Company does not provide Not applicable.
motivate executive a pension scheme for the management without Executive Directors unless paying more than contributions are required necessary.
Short-term To incentivise the Payments under the Short-term Performance requirements Incentive successful execution Incentive Plan are made in are determined by the Plan of the Companys cash, subject to certain Remuneration Committee business strategy.
They are intended to To reward the requirements as determined by align the performance of the achievement of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors with the annual financial and being met and up to a Groups near-term objectives of operational goals.
maximum bonus set as a delivering against its strategy.
percentage of base salary by In particular, the performance the Remuneration Committee.
requirements incentivise the The maximum bonus for an Executive Directors to focus Executive Director is 200 on cost control to achieve per cent.
profitability targets, while Currently, these performance delivering a reliable service requirements relate to to customers.
Company profitability, on-time There are no provisions for the performance, operating cost recovery of sums paid pursuant and personal performance.
The to the Short-term Incentive Plan.
Chief Executive Officers maximum bonus is currently 200 per cent.
Long-term To align the Executive Each year, performance shares Performance targets Incentive Directors long-term may be granted, subject to the are determined by the Plan LTIP interests with those of achievement of performance Remuneration Committee and operating Shareholders.
Awards normally vest vesting of the performance for the first To reward strong over a three-year period.
The shares is subject to performance time in the financial performance maximum face value of annual targets being met over the 2016 and sustained awards will be 250 per cent.
financial increase in salary for the Chief Executive If a participants employment year Shareholder value.
Officer and the Executive ends before the end of the Director must remain in office performance period, any vested when the performance and unvested options will shares vest.
normally lapse, save in certain good leaver scenarios.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Difference in remuneration policy for Executive Directors and employees Remuneration of the Companys senior management team follows a similar pattern to that of the Executive Directors, although amounts for each component may vary.
Other employees receive remuneration judged by senior management to be appropriate for their position and experience.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The Non-Executive Directors are only paid fees.
Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity sums paid Fees To remunerate NonNon-Executive Directors are Not applicable: there are no Executive Directors paid a basic fee, plus an provisions for the recovery to reflect their level additional amount for each of sums paid or the withholding of responsibility.
of any payment relating to fees.
Additional fees are paid for the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Board.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by the Board.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, in relation to the Chairman, and the Board, in relation to the other NonExecutive Directors, retain the flexibility to increase fee levels to ensure that they continue to appropriately reflect the experience of the individual, time commitment of the role and fee levels in comparable companies.
The fees paid to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors for the 2016 financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy The bar chart below sets out the annual remuneration package of the Chief Executive Officer, at a minimum, as a reasonable expectation and as a possible maximum in Euro : All amounts are determined in Swiss Francs CHF that for the purposes of this chart were converted into Euro at the rate of 1.093 CHF for 1 Euro rate at 31 March 2016.
The remuneration receivable under the LTIP as shown in the table i does not assume any share price appreciation between grant and vesting: and ii for the sake of illustration it assumes that no shares would vest in the minimum scenario, 50 per cent.
of shares would vest in the expected scenario, and all shares would vest in the maximum scenario.
Fixed remuneration is base salary May 2016 level annualised, being 623,971.
The annual bonus amount is zero at minimum, 623,971 at the expected level 50% of maximum opportunity of 200% and 1,247,942 at maximum 200% of base salary.
The long-term incentive amount is zero at minimum, 779,964 at the expected level 50% of maximum opportunity of 250% and 1,559,927 at maximum 250% of base salary.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 51 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment remuneration The remuneration package for an incoming Executive Director would reflect the principles set out above, although relocation expenses or allowances such as school fees for an Executive Director recruited from abroad may be paid as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, fee arrangements will be made in line with the policy as set out above.
Policy on payment for loss of office In the event of termination of a service contract or letter of appointment of a Director, contractual obligations will be honoured in accordance with the service contract or letter of appointment.
The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration the circumstances and reasons for departure, health, length of service and performance.
Under this policy, the Remuneration Committee may make any statutory payments it is required to make.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee may agree to payment of outpatient counselling costs and disbursements such as legal costs if considered to be appropriate and dependent on the circumstances of departure.
There are no pre-determined contractual provisions for Directors regarding compensation in the event of loss of office save for those listed in the table below.
Details of provision Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Notice period Six months notice by either party.
One months notice by either party.
Termination payment The employing company may terminate the Fees and expenses Executive Directors employment with immediate accrued up to effect by payment in lieu of notice.
The Executive Director will be paid a sum equal to six months base salary if the employing company chooses to enforce the restrictive covenants referenced below.
Upon termination of employment other than for cause, the Executive Director is entitled to a severance payment equal to six months salary in addition to any notice pay or payment in lieu of notice.
Post-termination Post-termination restrictive covenants apply for Not applicable.
covenants a period of one year following termination of employment.
Discretion, flexibility and judgement of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee operates the Short-term Incentive Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan, which include flexibility in a number of areas.
These include: E the timing of awards and payments: E the size of an award, within the maximum limits: E the participants of the plan: E the performance requirements and maximum percentages of salary to be used for the Short-term Incentive Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan from year to year: E the performance conditions, performance periods and vesting periods for awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan from year to year: E the assessment of whether performance requirements and or conditions have been met: E the treatment to be applied for a change of control or significant restructuring of the Group: E the determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of awards thereof: and E the adjustments, if any, required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, corporate events and special dividends.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 52 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Legacy arrangements In approving this policy, authority is to be given to the Company to honour commitments paid, promised to be paid or awarded to i current or former Directors prior to the date of this policy being approved or ii to an individual who subsequently is appointed as a Director of the Company at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, was not in consideration of that individual becoming a Director of the Company, even where such commitments are inconsistent with the provisions of this policy.
Outstanding awards under the Companys previous 2009 international employee share option plan remain eligible for vesting and exercise in accordance with their terms.
Consideration of Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Board will consider Shareholder feedback received in relation to the Annual General Meeting each year at a meeting immediately following the Annual General Meeting and any action required will be incorporated into the Remuneration Committee's business plan for the ensuing period.
This, and any additional feedback received from Shareholders from time to time, will then be considered by the Remuneration Committee and as part of the Company's annual review of remuneration arrangements.
Specific engagement with major Shareholders may be undertaken when a significant change in remuneration policy is proposed.
Annual Report on Remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee were Guido Demuynck Chairman, Thierry fide Preux, John R. Wilson until 1 March 2016 and Susan Hooper from 1 March 2016.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration policy for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments, and recommending and monitoring the remuneration of the senior managers.
Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
A summary of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference can be found on our corporate website, corporate.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 47 to 48 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Jzsef Vradi, the Chief Executive Officer, and Owain Jones, the Chief Corporate Officer, attend meetings by invitation and assist the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations as appropriate, though they are not present when their own compensation is discussed.
The Remuneration Committee is advised by Willis Towers Watson, which was selected following a competitive process led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2015.
Willis Towers Watson attends Committee meetings as and when required.
During FY16, Willis Towers Watson received fees totalling GBP 89,297 for advice related to remuneration policy, governance, developments in executive pay, benchmarking and performance analysis.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Willis Towers Watson offers impartial and objective advice and brings a high degree of expertise to the Remuneration Committees discussions.
The Company has no other connection with Willis Towers Watson.
Shareholders vote on remuneration At the 2015 Annual General Meeting the Remuneration Policy was put forward for a binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration was put forward for an advisory vote.
Details of the voting outcomes are provided in the table below: Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration Votes for 38,578,768 99.63% 38,777,578 99.74% Votes against 141,517 0.37% 101,517 0.26% Total 38,720,285 38,879,095 Votes withheld 773,017 614,207 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 53 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration Full details of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration are set out below in Euros : Single total figure of remuneration table audited 2016 Fees and salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Jzsef Vradi 627,447 - 1,185,436 - - 1,812,883 2015 Fees and salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Jzsef Vradi 532,507 - 1,075,080 - - 1,607,587 Salary and bonus were paid are payable in Swiss Francs and were converted into Euros at the average rate applicable for the year salary or the rate applicable at the end of the financial year bonus.
Bonus is linked to three important financial and operational KPIs of the Company and to individual performance.
The measures, target performance and actual performance for 2016 were the following: Target performance Actual Payout Measures Weight Threshold Target Maximum performance ratio Profit underlying, m 67% 148.0 175.0 201.0 223.9 200% CASK ex-fuel c ASK 11% 2.36 2.30 2.24 2.27 150% On-time performance delay 15 mins 11% 76.0% 80.0% 84.0% 82.3% 158% Individual performance rating 11% 2 2 1 1 200% Aggregate payout ratio 190% There is no payment if the performance is worse than the threshold.
At Target there is 100 per cent.
payment being equal to twelve months salary in the case of the CEO.
If the Maximum is reached or exceeded then there is 200 per cent.
As outlined earlier, the first award under the LTIP of 250 per cent.
of base salary was made to the Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year July 2015.
The award included 73,805 performance options, valued at GBP 15.72 per option share, that was the market price of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
The exercise price of the options is nil.
Vesting is due in July 2018 subject to meeting the following performance criteria: a relative total shareholder return TSR growth versus selected European airlines 50 per cent.
weighting : and b absolute fully diluted earnings per share EPS growth of the Company 50 per cent.
The TSR group consists of the following entities: Ryanair and EasyJet 50 per cent.
weighting : AirFrance-KLM, Air Berlin, Deutsche Lufthansa, Finnair, Flybe, IAG and SAS 50 per cent.
Aer Lingus has been removed from the group following acquisition by IAG and subsequent delisting in September 2015.
of the award will vest for median performance and 100 per cent.
of the award will vest for performance equal to or exceeding the upper quartile.
There will be no vesting for performance below median and linear interpolation will apply for performance between the median and upper quartile.
With respect to the EPS growth measure, 25 per cent.
of the award will vest for threshold average annual growth of 14 per cent.
will vest for target average annual growth of 17 per cent.
will vest for maximum average annual growth of 20 per cent.
Linear interpolation will apply for performance between threshold and target and target and maximum.
No remuneration is shown for LTIP options in the table above for single total figure of remuneration, because as explained above - final vesting of these options is not determined as a result of achievement of performance targets relating to the 2016 financial year.
As outlined in the 2015 annual report, 1,920,075 share options were issued to the Chief Executive Officer during the 20052011 calendar years from the previous long-term incentive plan ESOP of the Company.
Of these, 1,755,075 were exercised during the 2015 financial year.
The remaining 165,000 vested options had not been exercised as at 31 March 2016 and are exercisable until April 2021.
A performance graph that would show the Companys total shareholder return compared to a selected equity market index is not presented in this report due to the short trading history of the Companys shares.
However, a graph is planned for 2017.
In the tables below we provide a five-year overview of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration and the change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared to that of all employees.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 54 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration continued Five-year overview of Chief Executive Officer remuneration Performance bonus LTIP shares Single figure achieved vesting of total against against remuneration maximum maximum Financial year Euro possible possible 2012 764,460 100% 100% 2013 533,398 0% N A 2014 1,462,212 97% N A 2015 1,607,587 91% N A 2016 1,812,883 95% N A Share options were last time issued to the CEO in the 2012 financial year.
The vesting period was three years but there were no performance conditions other than being in employment during the vesting period.
Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to that of all employees Chief Executive Officer Total employees 2016 2015 Change Change 8.9% Salary and fees 627,447 532,507 17.8% N A 3.5% Benefits - - Bonus 1,185,436 1,075,080 10.3% -41.0% 12.8% 3.6% Total remuneration 1,812,883 1,607,587 Benefits represented an insignificant part, approximately only 2 per cent.
of the employee pay in these two years.
Per employee, excluding the Chief Executive Officer.
decrease year on year in the bonus paid to employees was due to the 1.6 million one-off IPO-related bonus paid in 2015 see Note 9 to the financial statements.
Excluding this impact the change in the per employee total remuneration was 6.8 per cent.
On the other hand, the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, when expressed in Euro, was inflated by the appreciation of the Swiss Franc to the Euro year on year this had an approximately 9 per cent.
impact on the salary number in Euro.
Total employee remuneration changed from 55.6 million in the 2015 financial year to 68.6 million in the 2016 financial year see Note 7 to the financial statements, being a 23.4 per cent.
This was driven also by the 19.3 per cent.
There were no dividends or share buybacks either in the 2016 financial year or the 2015 financial year.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid only Directors fees, full details of which are set out below: Single total figure of remuneration table audited 2016 Fees and salary Total Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension William A. Franke 77,500 - - - - 77,500 Stephen L. Johnson 45,000 - - - - 45,000 John R. Wilson 52,500 - - - - 52,500 Thierry fide Preux 52,500 - - - - 52,500 John McMahon 52,500 - - - - 52,500 Simon Duffy 72,895 - - - - 72,895 Guido Demuynck 65,000 - - - - 65,000 Susan Hooper 2,083 - - - 2,083 Total 419,978 - - - - 419,978 Joined on 1 March 2016.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 55 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Non-Executive Director remuneration continued 2015 Fees and salary Total Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension William A. Franke 82,500 - - - - 82,500 Stephen L. Johnson 55,000 - - - - 55,000 Heather Lawrence 27,500 - - - - 27,500 John R. Wilson 57,500 - - - - 57,500 Thierry fide Preux 57,500 - - - - 57,500 John McMahon 55,000 - - - - 55,000 John Tierney 25,168 - - - - 25,168 Simon Duffy 61,102 - - - - 61,102 Guido Demuynck 58,441 - - - - 58,441 Total 479,711 - - - - 479,711 Retired on 3 October 2014.
Total Directors remuneration Executive and Non-Executive audited Total remuneration of Directors for the period was 2,232,861 2015: 2,087,298.
This is the sum of the two single figure tables set out above.
The Chief Executive Officer is not a member of any other board.
Directors shareholdings The Chief Executive Officer holds a significant shareholding in the Company through a family trust and is also eligible to participate in the Companys Long-term Incentive Plan.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than Susan Hooper, is also a Shareholder in the Company, following awards made under a historic non-executive share scheme and or the purchase of shares with the relevant Directors own cash.
No new share plan awards have been made since July 2013 or will be made in the future under this historic share scheme.
The Company therefore believes that the interests of the Directors are well aligned with those of the Shareholders.
Full details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in the Companys shares as at 31 March 2016 are set out below: Directors and connected persons interests in shares audited Direct ownership Interests Total Number of Number of Number of Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Convertible Share Director Shares Shares Shares interests 1 82,917 10,815,383 10,898,300 William A. Franke 44,830,503 2 Jzsef Vradi 10,500 2,310,000 - 2,320,500 66,384 66,384 Thierry fide Preux - - 5,250 5,250 Guido Demuynck - - Simon Duffy 5,250 - - 5,250 52,750 52,750 Stephen L. Johnson - - 14,750 14,750 John Mc Mahon - - John R. Wilson 59,083 - - 59,083 1 Mr Franke is deemed to be interested in all of the Ordinary Shares and Convertible Shares held by Indigo Hungary LP, Indigo Maple Hill L. P. Indigo Hungary Management LLC and Bigfork Partners LLC for the purposes of section 96B of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill L. P. also hold Convertible Notes that, subject to certain conditions, are convertible to Ordinary Shares of the Company.
2 Mr Vradi is deemed to be interested in the Ordinary Shares held by his family trust companies.
Mr Vradisfamily trust company also holds 165,000 vested share options with an exercise price of GBP1.90 per share.
There has been no change to the interests of each of the Directors set out above since 31 March 2016 to the date of the notice of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 56 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Application of the Remuneration Policy in the 2017 financial year a Chief Executive Officers base salary A change of salary, if any, would be confirmed only after the release of this Annual Report.
b Short-term Incentive Plan The Chief Executive Officer is eligible to receive a cash bonus of up to 200 per cent.
of base salary in respect of the 2017 financial year.
The actual cash bonus received will depend on the achievement of certain performance criteria including underlying profit after tax 67 per cent.
cost per available seat kilometre 11 per cent.
and personal evaluation 11 per cent..
The Remuneration Committee believes that the specified performance criteria are sufficiently challenging compared to the Companys business plan.
The annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore will be disclosed in the 2017 remuneration report following the completion of the financial year provided that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
c Long-term Incentive Plan An award of performance shares of up to 250 per cent.
of base salary will be made to the Chief Executive Officer in May 2017.
Awards will vest following a three-year performance period and be subject to the same type of same performance criteria as the 2016 award, but details would be confirmed only after the release of this Annual Report.
d Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees There will be no increases to fees for our Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
As outlined in the FY15 annual report, the Non-Executive Directors receive a fee of 25,000 per annum, plus 2,500 for each full Board meeting attended.
Simon Duffy, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, receives an additional fee of 18,750 per annum for taking on that role.
Guido Demuynck, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, receives an additional fee of 12,500 per annum for taking on that role.
William A. Franke, as Chairman, receives an additional fee of 25,000 per annum for taking on that role.
The Non-Executive Directors will also be reimbursed for all proper and reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties.
Other disclosures Directors service agreement and letters of appointment Executive Director The Chief Executive Officer entered into a new service agreement with the Geneva branch of Wizz Air Hungary Ltd. WAHL on 15 December 2015, for a period of five years, subject to earlier termination upon six months notice by either party.
WAHL also has the right to terminate Mr Vradis employment with immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice.
The service agreement contains post-termination restrictive covenants preventing Mr Vradi from competing with WAHL or any of its business partners in the EU as well as those non-EU countries where WAHL operates, for a period of one year following the termination of his employment.
Mr Vradi will be paid a sum equal to six months base salary if WAHL chooses to enforce these restrictive covenants.
Upon termination of employment other than for cause, Mr Vradi is entitled to a severance payment equal to six months salary, in addition to any notice pay or payment in lieu of notice.
Non-Executive Directors The Company entered into letters of appointment with each of its Non-Executive Directors on 4 June 2014, which became effective on completion of the IPO for a term of three years.
Each Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by the Company or the Non-Executive Director with one months written notice.
Continuation of the appointment is contingent on continued satisfactory performance and re-election at the Companys annual general meetings and the appointment will terminate automatically on the termination of the appointment by the Shareholders or, where Shareholder approval is required for the appointment to continue, the withholding of approval by the Shareholders.
Re-appointment will be reviewed annually.
In accordance with the terms of the letters of appointment, each of the Non-Executive Directors is required to allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Each letter of appointment contains obligations of confidentiality which have effect during the appointment and after termination thereof.
On behalf of the Board Guido Demuynck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2016 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 57
