82 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report Our approach to remuneration carefully Shareholder letter balances best practice for remuneration in a UK-listed environment with the need Dear shareholder, to ensure that the arrangements in place are competitive in the labour markets in On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to which we compete for talent.
present our Remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
This has resulted in a remuneration model where the majority of the The report has been prepared in remuneration package is performance three sections: based, with both fixed and variable pay This shareholder letter: set at median levels in comparison to Our policy report which sets out the other comparable companies of our Directors Remuneration policy for all size and complexity.
Directors of Worldpay Group plc.
This received more than 99% of votes in Remuneration highlights of 2016 Our remuneration favour at our 2016 Annual General The main remuneration highlights of Meeting AGM and remains 2016 were as follows: philosophy and framework unchanged: and Very strong shareholder support for continue to have a strong Our annual report on remuneration the Remuneration policy and report which sets out details of how our at 2016 AGM, with both receiving over emphasis on pay for Directors were paid during the 99% of votes in favour: financial year 2016 and how our policy Executive Directors salaries were performance and are fully will be implemented in 2017.
This part frozen in 2016, against an average aligned with our strategy.
of the report is subject to an advisory increase of 2% for UK colleagues.
shareholder vote at our 2017 AGM.
They will receive a 2.5% increase in basic salary from 1 April 2017, The Remuneration Committee hopes which is the same timing and John Allan, CBE that you will find the report clear, increase being implemented for Chairman of the Remuneration transparent and informative and that UK colleagues this year: Committee we can rely on your continued support.
Very strong Group financial performance during the year has Business and remuneration context led to higher bonuses being paid Worldpay is a leader in global payments, in respect of 2016 performance, which is a complex and dynamic market.
One-third of Our strategy, which is clearly outlined the 2016 bonuses will be deferred into on pages 18 to 21, is designed to deliver shares for three years in accordance sustainable, recurring growth over with the Remuneration policy: the medium term by supporting our First grants were made under the new customers with products and services LTIP in March 2016.
The second grants that enable them to drive their sales and will be awarded in March 2017: and reduce their costs and risk.
Save As You Earn SAYE scheme was launched in the UK and an all One of the key drivers of the Groups Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP success and for the future is the in the US, both in September 2016. strong, experienced and highly capable 60% of UK colleagues, and 41% of US management team.
Following our listing colleagues, subscribed to the plan.
in October 2015, we have seen a number Such a large vote of confidence in the of changes and additions across the future of the Group by our colleagues Executive Team ET.
Therefore, it is was very well received by your Board.
important that our remuneration philosophy enables us to attract the key talent we need, whether that be through internal promotion or external hires, and incentivises our senior executives in a manner which is aligned to our strategy.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 83 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2016 annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP External developments The annual bonus plan is driven by The long-term incentive arrangements The topic of Executive remuneration financial measures relevant to the for the Executive Directors are entirely continues to be widely commented on, business.
For 2016 performance, the performance-based and fully aligned both by commentators and institutional financial measures chosen were equally with best practice for UK-listed shareholders and shareholder bodies.
weighted between a profit and a cash companies, including having an We believe that Worldpay is already measure.
We use Underlying EBITDA additional holding period of up to two demonstrating a high degree of as defined in the footnote to Table 2 years following the end of the three-year transparency that is expected as being on page 91 as the main measure of profit performance period.
The first awards part of the FTSE 100 group of companies.
and use a proxy measure for cash that were made under the plan in March Indeed it is leading the way in terms of focuses management on the underlying 2016, with our second grant being bonus target disclosure and establishing cash generation of the business.
The details of the parity with other senior managers for key details of this measure are shown later measures and targets are set out in the benefits, such as pension.
Remuneration report on pages 92 and 94.
Being our first full year as a public company, In addition to these financial measures, 2017 remuneration the Committee undertook an independent the bonus plan enables the Committee Base salaries for the Executive review of its remuneration risk profile, to set key individual strategic objectives Directors will be increased by 2.5% as well as receiving an update on the which help deliver long-term sustainable effective from 1 April 2017, aligned forthcoming Gender Pay regulations that growth.
with the general increase provided are due to come into force during 2017. to UK colleagues: The strong financial performance in No changes are proposed to the As outlined in the Remuneration report, 2016 has resulted in high annual bonuses annual bonus for 2017 which will be the Committee continues to monitor for our Executive Directors.
However, subject to the same mix of performance external best practice to ensure we the Committee has applied its discretion measures as in 2016: and provide all relevant information to you, to reduce the Executive Directors and No changes are proposed to the our shareholders, so that you retain a all other members of the ETs personal financial measures used to assess high level of confidence that Executive bonus element as a result of the isolated performance under the PSP for 2017 remuneration is approached in a sensible issue that occurred with one of our which will remain equally weighted way that both encourages high levels of gateways earlier in the year which between earnings per share EPS performance and provides good value affected settlement for a small number and underlying EBITDA.
Details of the for Worldpay.
This was not formally strategic non-financial measures can included in the agreed objectives at be found in the Remuneration report Shareholder engagement the start of the year and, whilst the on page 94.
We engaged with our top 20 shareholders Committee were satisfied with in January 2016 on our proposed managements response, it was felt All employee share plans remuneration approach and the the issue was material enough for the 2016 saw the launch of the Groups first intended performance measures to Committee to exercise its discretion SAYE plan in the UK and ESPP in the US.
be used in our incentive arrangements.
to reduce the final bonus outcomes.
These two plans cover approximately We value shareholder feedback and 90% of our employee base and offer are very encouraged by the support More details are shown in the Remuneration the opportunity for colleagues to save and comments we received.
As outlined in the monthly in order to buy Worldpay shares continue to engage with shareholders Remuneration policy, one-third of these at a discount.
as and when we propose to make sums will be deferred for three years and any changes to our remuneration invested into Worldpay shares.
The take up of both plans was extremely arrangements and hope to receive positive 60% in the UK and 41% in your support for our Remuneration the US and indicates a high level of report at our forthcoming AGM.
confidence by our employees in the future direction of Worldpay.
The Board feels strongly that employees should be shareholders wherever that is possible and believes this further helps align the interests of all John Allan, CBE colleagues with shareholders.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2017 84 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary To provide a level of fixed pay Base salaries are reviewed annually typically with To avoid setting expectations Not applicable which supports the recruitment effect from 1 April.
of Executive Directors and and retention of Executives of the other employees, no maximum calibre to deliver the strategy of When determining salary levels, the Remuneration salary is set under the the business.
Committee takes account of the following: Remuneration policy.
Pay and conditions of the wider workforce Individual performance Salary increases for Executive Competitive practice in other FTSE 100 companies Directors will normally be and organisations with whom Worldpay directly aligned with those of the competes for talent.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of individual circumstances, which may include: Increases to reflect an individuals development and performance in role.
For example, where a new incumbent is appointed on a below-market salary Increase in the size or scope of the role or responsibilities.
Pension To provide appropriate levels of Executive Directors may receive a cash allowance, Executive Directors Not applicable retirement benefit.
contributions into the Worldpay pension scheme or a may receive a maximum defined contribution scheme, or a combination thereof.
contribution from the Company of 20% of salary per annum.
Benefits To provide a market-competitive Executive Directors may receive various marketBenefits for Executive Not applicable level of benefits.
competitive benefits, which may include: a car Directors are set at a level allowance, use of a driver, reimbursed travel expenses, which the Remuneration private medical and annual health check, disability Committee considers to and life assurance.
be appropriate against wider employee benefits as well Where appropriate, other benefits may be provided to as competitive practice in take account of individual circumstances, such as, but other FTSE 100 companies not limited to: expatriate allowances, relocation and organisations with whom expense, housing allowance and education support.
Worldpay directly competes for talent.
Annual bonus and deferred annual bonus The role of the annual bonus is Performance is assessed on an annual basis.
The maximum annual bonus Bonuses are based on a to incentivise strong financial opportunity is 200% of base combination of stretching performance and reward the Targets are set by the Remuneration Committee at salary per annum.
annual financial and delivery of the Groups strategy the start of the financial year.
At the end of the year, non-financial strategic on an annual basis.
the Committee determines the level of bonus to be paid The current maximum bonus performance measures, taking into account the extent to which these targets levels applying to each of the with the majority of the Deferral into shares provides have been achieved.
Executive Directors are bonus assessed against alignment with shareholders.
included in the Remuneration financial measures.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic report on page 94. bonus outcomes both upwards and downwards The Remuneration Committee including to zero to ensure alignment of pay with will determine the weighting performance, e. g. in the event performance is impacted between different metrics by unforeseen circumstances outside of management each year according to control.
The annual bonus is normally delivered two-thirds in For target performance, up to cash and one-third is compulsorily deferred into shares 50% of the maximum bonus for a period of at least three years.
Executives may elect opportunity may be received.
to voluntarily defer more than one-third of their bonus Further details, including the into shares.
performance measures set for each year, are disclosed in Dividend equivalents will be paid in cash or additional the Remuneration report on shares once the deferred shares are released.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 85 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Performance Share Plan PSP The role of the PSP is to incentivise Awards under the PSP will normally be made in the form The maximum PSP Vesting of the PSP is subject and reward Executive Directors of nil cost options over shares but may be made in other opportunity under the to continued employment for achieving the long-term forms such as conditional or forfeitable shares or a plan is 300% of base salary during the performance performance objectives of the payment made in cash.
period and the achievement Group which are aligned to the of key financial and strategic strategic goals.
Awards will be calculated based on a percentage of The current PSP opportunities performance conditions which salary and the market share price at grant in accordance applying to each of the are aligned to the Groups The PSP also acts as a with the rules.
Executive Directors are strategic plan.
included in the Remuneration Prior to awards being granted each year, the performance report on page 94.
At least 50% of a PSP award conditions and targets are set to ensure they remain will be based on financial appropriately stretching and aligned to the strategy metrics.
Threshold performance will The PSP has a performance period of at least three years result in up to 25% of a PSP and a minimum vesting period of three years.
No part of normally be subject to an additional holding period with a PSP award will vest for 50% of the award being received after four years and the performance below the remaining 50% after five years.
Dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or additional Further details, including the shares on PSP awards that vest.
performance targets attached to the PSP in respect of each The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic year, are disclosed in the outcome of the PSP to ensure the outcome takes Remuneration report on account of any major changes to the Group e. g. as a page 94. result of mergers and acquisitions and is a fair reflection of the performance of the Group.
All-employee share plans SAYE and ESPP Provides all UK and US employees, UK and US employees may be eligible to participate in Employees are limited to Not applicable including Executive Directors, the this Government-approved employee share scheme, saving a maximum in line opportunity to voluntarily invest which is operated in line with HMRC IRS requirements.
in Company shares and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Similar plans may be operated for employees in other countries in which Worldpay operates.
Share Incentive Plan SIP Provides all employees, including UK employees may be eligible to participate in this The maximum opportunity for Not applicable Executive Directors, the opportunity HMRC-approved employee share scheme.
awards will be set in line with to receive and invest in Company HMRC limits.
shares and be aligned with the This plan is presently not in use and there are no plans to interests of shareholders.
Legacy plans Transition Award Plan The role of the Transition Award Awards under the Transition Award Plan were made on 833,333 shares were awarded Not applicable Plan is to provide a strong a one-off basis upon listing in October 2015. to the Chief Executive Officer.
alignment with shareholders and act as a retention tool during the Executive Directors are required to hold at least 100% of 416,666 shares were awarded initial years of Worldpay as a listed basic salary in Worldpay Group plc shares for 36 months to the Chief Financial Officer.
from the Admission Date as well as be subject to continued employment.
416,666 shares were awarded to the Vice Chairman and Dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or additional Executive Director.
shares on awards under the Transition Award Plan that vest.
86 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report continued Notes to the policy table Performance measure selection All UK employees may be eligible to Payments outside policy and approach to target setting participate in the Companys SAYE and The Committee reserves the right to Annual bonus SIP plans on identical terms and those make any remuneration payments and The annual bonus performance measures outside of the UK in comparable plans payments for loss of office including are selected to provide an appropriate where appropriate.
exercising any discretion available to balance between incentivising Executive it in connection with such payments Directors to meet the key financial Shareholder alignment notwithstanding that they are not in targets of the Group for the year and The Committee recognises the importance line with the policy set out in this report incentivising them to achieve specific of aligning Executive Directors and where the terms of the payment were strategic objectives.
The particular shareholder interests through building agreed: 1 before the policy came into measures each year are chosen to up significant shareholdings in the effect: or 2 at a time when the relevant ensure focus on the key objectives Company.
Executive Directors are individual was not a Director of the aligned with the Groups strategy in expected to acquire a significant number Company, and in the opinion of the each financial year.
of shares over a period of five years and Committee, the payment was not in retain these until retirement from the consideration of the individual becoming PSP Board of Directors.
The shareholding a Director of the Company.
In respect of the PSP, the Committee requirement is 300% of salary for the regularly reviews the performance CEO and 200% of salary for all other Clawback and malus measures to ensure that they are aligned Executive Directors.
Details of the The Committee has the discretion to with the Groups long-term strategic plan Executive Directors current personal scale back known as malus Deferred and with our shareholders interests over shareholdings are provided on page 95.
Share Awards made under the Annual the longer term.
bonus plan, Performance Share Plan Scenario analysis awards and awards under the Transition Targets for both the annual bonus The charts on the following page Award Plan prior to the satisfaction of and PSP are reviewed annually against provide an estimate of the potential awards in the event that results are a number of internal and external future reward opportunities for the materially misstated, there is gross reference points.
Targets are set on Executive Directors, and the potential misconduct or significant reputational a sliding scale at levels the Committee split between the different elements damage has occurred.
considers to be appropriately stretching of remuneration under three different for the level of award delivered.
performance scenarios: Minimum, Where Deferred Share Awards made Target and Maximum.
under the annual bonus plan, Performance Remuneration policy for other employees Share Plan awards or awards under the The remuneration policy for Executive Non-Executive Director remuneration Transition Award Plan have vested, the Directors in general is more heavily The Chairman and Non-Executive Committee has discretion to clawback weighted towards variable pay than Directors do not have service agreements, awards up to the fifth anniversary of the for other employees.
The majority of but are engaged on the basis of a letter grant of the awards in the circumstances employees participate in an annual of appointment.
In line with the UK described above.
bonus plan, but PSP awards are only Corporate Governance Code September made to the most senior circa 80 2014 guidelines, all Directors are subject Cash bonuses can also be clawed back individuals in the Group.
Individuals to re-election annually at the AGM.
in the circumstances described above below this level may receive annual up to the third anniversary of payment.
awards of restricted stock which vest It is the policy of the Board of Directors after three years.
that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the The Companys approach to annual Companys bonus, long-term incentive salary reviews is consistent across or pension schemes.
the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, responsibility, Details of the policy on fees paid to our individual performance and salary levels Non-Executive Directors are set out in for comparable roles in comparable the table on the following page.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 87 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Scenario analysis 000 Philip Jansen, Chief Executive Ocer Minimum 1,054 100% 1,054 Target 46% 36% 18% 2,329 Maximum 24% 38% 38% 4,454 Rick Medlock, Chief Financial Ocer Minimum 100% 608 Target 51% 33% 16% 1,196 Maximum 28% 37% 35% 2,158 Ron Kalifa, Vice Chairman and Executive Director Minimum 100% 584 Target 51% 33% 16% 1,142 Maximum 28% 37% 35% 2,057 Fixed pay Bonus LTIP The scenario analysis charts are based on the following assumptions: Minimum Base salary as at 31 December 2016 plus pension and fixed allowances.
Target Minimum plus Target annual bonus including deferred element and represents 50% of maximum bonus plus Threshold LTIP opportunity 25% of maximum.
Maximum Minimum plus Maximum annual bonus including deferred element plus Maximum LTIP opportunity.
Non-Executive Director remuneration Component and objective Approach of the Company Fees The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors, with To attract and retain Non-Executive recommendations provided by the Chairman and CEO.
The fees of the Chairman are Directors of the highest calibre with determined by the Remuneration Committee.
broad commercial experience relevant to the Company.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Group Risk Committees.
Members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk Committees also receive an additional fee.
Fee levels may be reviewed annually.
Fees are reviewed by taking into account external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at FTSE 100 companies.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Chairman and Non-Executive fees are paid in cash.
The Company reimburses the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these duties.
For any Non-Executive Director that is based overseas, the Company will meet travel and accommodation expenditure as required to fulfil Non-Executive duties.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Remuneration report on page 92.
Aggregate fees are limited to 3.0m by the Companys Articles of Association.
88 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration external appointees, as detailed above.
Executive Director including legal fees External appointment Where an individual has contractual incurred in connection with the termination When determining the remuneration commitments made prior to their and fees for outplacement services.
package for a new Executive Director, promotion to Executive Director, the the Committee will take into account Company will continue to honour these The Companys policy on any termination all relevant factors based on the arrangements even in instances where payments is to consider the circumstances circumstances at that time.
This may they would not otherwise be consistent on a case-by-case basis, taking into include factors such as the calibre of the with the prevailing Executive Director account the relevant contractual terms individual, the jurisdiction the candidate Remuneration policy at the time of in the Executive Directors service was recruited from, the candidates current appointment.
contract and the circumstances of reward opportunity and the scope of the the termination.
role to which they are being appointed.
Non-Executive Directors In recruiting a new Non-Executive The table opposite summarises how Typically, the package will be aligned to Director, the Remuneration Committee awards under each incentive plan are the Companys remuneration policy as uses the policy as set out in the table typically treated in specific circumstances, set out above.
However, should there on page 87.
A base fee in line with the with the final treatment remaining be a commercial rationale for doing current fee schedule would be payable subject to the Committees discretion so, the Remuneration Committee has for membership of the Board of Directors, as provided under the rules of the plan.
the discretion to include any other with additional fees payable for acting remuneration elements which are not as Senior Independent Non-Executive External appointments included in the ongoing Remuneration Director, as Chairman of the Audit, With the approval of the Board of policy, subject to the overall limit on Remuneration and Group Risk Directors in each case, and subject variable remuneration set out below.
Committees, and for being a member to the overriding requirements of the The Committee does not intend to use of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Company, Executive Directors may this discretion to make non-performance and Group Risk Committees.
accept one external appointment as incentive payments and is always a Non-Executive Director of another mindful of the need to pay no more Service contracts and exit company and retain the fees paid in this than is necessary.
Details of external appointments Executive Director service contracts, and the associated fees received are The overall limit of variable remuneration including arrangements for termination, included in the Remuneration report on is as set out in the policy table taking are carefully considered by the Committee.
page 93. into account the maximum value of In accordance with general market the annual bonus and the maximum practice, each of the Executive Directors Consideration of conditions elsewhere awards under the PSP i. e. 500% of has a rolling service contract which is in the Company salary combined.
This The Committee does not consult with practice will also apply for any new employees specifically on Executive The Committee may make an award in Executive Directors.
However, respect of a new appointment to buy-out the Committee considers pay practices incentive arrangements forfeited In such an event, the compensation across the Group and is mindful of the on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over commitments in respect of their contracts salary increases applying across the rest and above the maximum limit on variable could amount to one years remuneration of the business in relevant markets when remuneration set out above.
In doing based on base salary, benefits in kind and considering salaries for Executive Directors.
so, the Committee will consider relevant pension rights during the notice period.
factors including any performance Termination payments may take the form Consideration of shareholder views conditions attached to these awards, of payments in lieu of notice.
Payments The Committee considers shareholder the likelihood of those conditions being would be made on a phased basis and views received during the year and at the met and the time over which they would subject to mitigation, in order to limit AGM each year, as well as guidance from have vested.
The intention is that the the potential cost to the Company.
shareholder representative bodies more value of any buy-out award would be broadly, in shaping remuneration policy.
no higher than the expected value of Copies of Executive Director service This feedback, and any additional feedback the forfeited arrangements and made contracts are available to view at the received from time to time, will then be on a like-for-like basis.
considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration.
It is the Internal promotion If the employment is terminated by the Committees intention to consult with In cases of appointing a new Executive Company, the Remuneration Committee major shareholders in advance of making Director by way of internal promotion, retains the discretion to settle any other any material changes to remuneration the policy will be consistent with that for amounts reasonably payable to the arrangements.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 89 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Awards under each incentive plan Reason for cessation Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Voluntary resignation or Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
termination with cause All other circumstances Following the end of the Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that objectives set at the financial year at the usual beginning of the plan year have been met.
Any such bonus will bonus payment date be paid on a pro-rata basis for the period employed.
Deferred shares Termination for cause Not applicable Awards lapse.
Any other circumstances At the end of the normal Awards will vest in full at the end of the deferral period.
vesting period PSP Voluntary resignation or Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
termination with cause Ill-health, injury, permanent After the end of the relevant The Committee determines whether, and to what extent, disability, or any other reason performance period outstanding awards vest based on the extent to which that the Committee performance conditions have been achieved and pro-rate determines in its absolute to take into account the proportion of the performance discretion period in employment.
Death As soon as possible after Unvested awards will fully vest.
date of death Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied unless the Committee determines that the performance conditions should not apply.
Awards will also be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate.
Transitional awards Voluntary resignation or Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
termination with cause Ill-health, injury, permanent After the end of the vesting Awards would vest at the end of the vesting period, but disability, or any other period be reduced to reflect the proportion of the vesting period reason that the Committee in employment.
determines in its absolute discretion Death As soon as possible after Unvested awards will fully vest.
date of death Change of control On change of control Awards will vest but be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the vesting period completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
90 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report continued and take account of the generally During 2016, the Remuneration Committee Annual report on remuneration accepted principles of good governance.
The key agenda items discussed at each of the meetings are The following section provides details The Committee determines and shown in the table below.
of how our Remuneration policy was recommends to the Board: implemented during the year ended The Groups policy on executive Advisors 31 December 2016. remuneration: Deloitte LLP were appointed as advisors The annual report on remuneration to the Remuneration Committee on Remuneration Committee membership to be approved by shareholders: and 8 December 2015 following the listing of the in 2016 In respect of the Chairman, the Executive Company and remained advisors to the As of 31 December 2016, the Remuneration Directors and the ET members determines: Committee during 2016.
Deloitte LLP is a Committee was made up of the following Terms and conditions of member of the Remuneration Consultants three Non-Executive Directors: employment, including the Executive Group and, as such, voluntarily operates Directors service agreements: under the Code of Conduct in relation 1.
John Allan Chairman The level of remuneration to Executive Directors remuneration including base salary, benefits, consulting in the UK.
Martin Scicluna pension, annual bonus and as advisors to the Remuneration long-term incentives : and Committee for the year ending 3.
Deanna Oppenheimer appointed Performance measures and targets 31 December 2016 amounted to 33,550.
29January 2016 for annual bonus and long-term incentive plans.
Single total figure of remuneration for The Chairman Sir Michael Rake was Executive Directors audited a member of the Committee until The Chairman of the Board of Directors Table 1 opposite sets out a single figure 29 January 2016. and the CEO are responsible for evaluating for the total remuneration received by and making recommendations to the each Executive Director for 2016.
The The Committees purpose is to assist Board of Directors on the remuneration values shown in respect of 2015 are from the Board of Directors in fulfilling its of the Non-Executive Directors.
Members their date of appointment as Directors oversight responsibility by ensuring of the Remuneration Committee and any of Worldpay Group plc on 3 July 2015 to that remuneration policy and practices person attending its meetings do not 31 December 2015.
The values of each reward fairly and responsibly: are linked participate in any discussion or decision element of remuneration are based on to corporate and individual performance: on their own remuneration.
the actual value delivered, where known.
Key agenda items discussed at each of the Remuneration Committee meetings Meeting date Standard agenda items Additional items 28 January 2016 Approve 2016 financial bonus targets Approval of departing Persons Discharging Review draft ET personal outcomes from prior year Managerial Responsibility PDMR terms Approve 2016 ET personal objectives Approval of promoted PDMR terms Review draft PSP targets for March grant 3 March 2016 Approve new ET salaries and bonuses Not applicable Approve Remuneration policy and 2016 Annual report onremuneration.
Approve LTIP grants and PSP targets 27 July 2016 Latest view on bonus and PSP outcomes Approval of new PDMR terms Update on market developments in Executive Gender pay gap remuneration including legislation and regulation Dutch variable pay cap Commission independent risk review 13 December 2016 Latest view on present year bonus and PSP outcome Approval of new PDMR terms Approve 2017 draft bonus targets and salary budget Independent remuneration risk review Review draft PSP measures for 2017 grant Review 2017 draft ET personal objectives Approve approach to the Remuneration report to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 91 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Table 1: Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below compares the earnings in the full financial year of 2016 with the six months between July and December 2015.
2 Payment for performance during the year includes cash and deferred elements.
See Table 3 below for details.
3 The values reflect the awards the Executive Directors received under the Transition Award Plan upon IPO which will vest in October 2018 subject to continued employment and a shareholding requirement.
4 Pension benefits in the year comprised of 20% of base salary.
Between 3 July 2015 and 31 August 2015, the pension allowance of the CEO, CFO and Vice Chairman and Executive Director were 10%, 20% and 15% respectively.
5 In 2015, Ron Kalifa additionally received a cash payment of 198,065 plus 157,905 Worldpay Group plc shares in lieu of his pre-IPO A class shares held in Ship Luxco Holding & Cy S. C. A..
The shares are locked in and may only be sold accordingly: one-third for 12 months: one-third for 24 months: and the final third for 36 months.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended Table 2: Summary of the level of 2016 performance achieved against each of the 31 December 2016 audited financial targets set audited Annual bonus in respect of 2016 Threshold Target Maximum performance Measure Weighting Actual 25% 50% 100% Outcome The CEO had a target bonus opportunity Underlying 1 of 100% of base salary and the other EBITDA 37.5% 467.6m 434.0m 442.0m 450.0m 100% 2 Executive Directors a target bonus E-C-S 37.5% 202.3m 187.2m 195.2m 203.3m 93.8% opportunity of 80% of salary.
If maximum Final outcome 75% 96.9% performance is achieved, twice the 1 Underlying EBITDA: earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
It also excludes separately target bonus opportunity may be disclosed items which are explained in the Financial review on pages 54 to 55. received.
The payments under the 2 E-C-S: Underlying EBITDA less capital expenditure less certain separately disclosed items, which acts as a proxy for cash.
annual bonus for 2016 will be made two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares, deferred for three years.
Table 3: Annual bonus payments for Executive Directors audited For 2016, the annual bonus was assessed Actual taking into account both financial and Financial 75% Personal 25% bonus personal performance on an additive Maximum % of bonus Maximum Outcome Outcome Maximum Outcome Outcome salary as basis.
Financial performance was opportunity % of % of % of % of % of % of at 31 Dec assessed against Underlying EBITDA Executive % of salary salary maximum salary salary maximum salary 2016 and Cash E-C-S see Table 2, footnote 2 Philip Jansen 200 150 96.9 145.4 50 75 37.5 182.9 performance targets, each with a Rick Medlock 160 120 96.9 116.3 40 75 30.0 146.3 37.5% weighting.
Ron Kalifa 160 120 96.9 116.3 40 75 30.0 146.3 Table 2 opposite provides a summary of the level of performance achieved against each of the financial targets set.
The annual bonus payments for each Executive Director have been calculated as shown in Table 3 opposite.
92 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report continued The personal outcomes outlined in Table 4: Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited Table 3 were in consideration of the 2015 fees from date of achievement of key strategic objectives Non-Executive Director 2016 fees appointment Sept 2015 set at the start of the financial year.
Sir Michael Rake 425,000 141,667 The precise details of the objectives 1,2 John Allan 130,000 43,333 are considered commercially sensitive.
2 Martin Scicluna 160,000 53,333 However, the main focus of each of the 3,5 Deanna Oppenheimer 121,667 n a objectives was as follows: 4,5 Karen Richardson 57,500 n a Launch of the New Acquiring Platform Robin Marshall None None with live customers: Driving divisional strategic priorities James Brocklebank None None and key deliverables, with key 1 In 2015, John Allan additionally received a cash payment of 265,663 plus 211,799 Worldpay Group plc innovation development: shares in lieu of his pre-IPO A class shares held in Ship Luxco Holding & Cy S. C. A..
Two-thirds of these shares are locked in until October 2017.
Responding successfully to regulatory 2 In connection with the reorganisation that took place prior to the IPO, in 2015 John Allan and Martin and scheme changes: and Scicluna waived their respective entitlements to any interest in Contingent Value Rights CVRs a separate class of shares in the Company.
In order to recognise the obligations and responsibilities associated with Building a high performance culture their role as Independent Non-Executive Directors, John Allan and Martin Scicluna received one-off across the whole Group.
payments from AB JV Global S. r. l the then ultimate parent Company of the Company of 1.9m and 365,000 respectively.
At the time they were made, these lump sum payments were not referable to the potential value of the CVRs, which did not have any value for accounting purposes.
50% of the after-tax The personal performance of each proceeds from these lump sum payments were reinvested in ordinary shares, in respect of which they were Executive Director was very strong entered into a 365-day lock-up agreement with the Company and the Underwriters to the IPO.
However, the Remuneration 3 Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Group Risk Committee on 1 January 2016.
She was then appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee from Committee supported managements 29January 2016 and a member of the Nomination Committee from 1 October 2016. recommendation that their personal 4 Karen Richardson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees on 1 July 2016.
She was then appointed a member of the Group Risk Committee from bonus outcomes should be reduced and 1October 2016. determined that only 75% of this element 5 Inclusive of the disturbance allowance, which was introduced effective 1 July 2016. of the bonus should be paid, in order to reflect the ETs joint responsibility for the isolated issue that occurred on one of Table 5: Scheme interests awarded during the year audited our gateways earlier in the year, which affected settlement for a small number Number of End of Date shares Share Face value performance of customers.
1 Executive of grant awarded price of award period Philip Jansen Single total figure of remuneration for 2016 18 03 2016 602,409 2.822 1,700,000 18 03 2019 Non-Executive Directors audited Table 4 opposite sets out a single figure Rick Medlock for the total remuneration received by 2016 18 03 2016 265,768 2.822 750,000 18 03 2019 each Non-Executive Director for the Ron Kalifa year ended 31 December 2016.
2016 18 03 2016 252,480 2.822 712,500 18 03 2019 1 The share price on the date of award was used to determine the number of shares awarded.
Scheme interests awarded during the year audited Awards are subject to the following performance conditions: The first awards were made under the Threshold target Maximum target Worldpay PSP in March 2016 as set out Measure Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting in Table 5 opposite.
Cumulative EPS 37.5% 26.0p 30.0p To provide further alignment with Underlying EBITDA growth 37.5% 8% p. a.
12% p. a. shareholders over the longer term, Strategic measures: any awards that vest will be subject to Customer: Net SME adds 12.5% 30,000 40,000 an additional holding period.
Half of the New Technology Platform 12.5% Complete customer Complete customer shares will be released on the fourth migration by migration by anniversary of the date of grant and the 1 January 2018 1 July 2017 remaining half released after five years.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 93 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Review of past performance Performance graph and table of CEO pay Historical Total Shareholder Return TSR performance Table 6: Chief Executive Officers historic pay The graph opposite shows the TSR of Year ended 3 July 2015 to the Company and the FTSE 100 Index over Remuneration element 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 the period from Admission on 16 October CEO single figure of remuneration 2,604,781 3,108,103 2015 to 31 December 2016.
The index was Annual bonus award against maximum opportunity 91% 75% selected on the basis that the Company PSP award against maximum opportunity n a n a is a member of the FTSE 100 Index.
The graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical holding of 100 invested Historical TSR Performance at admission to 31 December 2016.
Value of 100 invested at the share price at listing on 16 October 2015 Percentage change in CEO remuneration 140 Table 7 opposite provides a summary of 130 the percentage change in remuneration during 2016 of the CEO in comparison to 120 UK colleagues.
110 Relative importance of spend on pay 100 There were no share buybacks implemented 90 in 2016.
The dividends paid in 2016 were 12.9m.
For comparison, the total employee 80 expenditure was 340.0m as set out in 70 Note 2c to the financial statements.
60 Exit payments made in the year 50 audited No exit payments were made during October 2015 December 2016 the year 2015: none.
Worldpay Group plc FTSE 100 Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year 2015: none.
Table 7: Percentage change in CEO remuneration External appointments Remuneration element CEO Other employees Philip Jansen acts as an advisor to Bain Salary 0% 2.0% Capital, for which he received a fee of Benefits 11.6% 2.0% 112,500 in 2016.
He is no longer a paid 1 advisor to Cucina Investments UK.
Bonus 21.9% 25.3% 1 Comparing the 2015 and 2016 full year bonuses.
Ron Kalifa is a Director of Trust 441 Visa and the fees are paid directly to Worldpay.
Ron is a Non-Executive Director of QIWI plc and received a gross amount of US$164,514 in fees in 2016.
Ron was appointed to the Board of Transport for London in September 2016 and received a gross amount of 7,977 in fees in 2016.
Additionally, Ron has been an Operating Partner of Advent International since September 2016, for which no fees are received.
94 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration report continued Implementation of Executive Director Table 8: Base salaries of the Executive Directors remuneration policy for 2017 Executive Director From 1 April 2017 2016 base salary Base salary Philip Jansen 871,000 850,000 Base salaries were set at listing taking Rick Medlock 512,000 500,000 into account competitive practice for Ron Kalifa 486,000 475,000 similar roles in other FTSE 100 companies of a similar size as shown in Table 8 opposite.
The salaries of the Executive Directors remained unchanged for the Table 9: Performance measures to be used to assess the LTIP award granted in 2017 duration of 2016.
The Committee has Threshold target Maximum target reviewed these salaries to ensure 1 1 Measure Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting they are competitive and reflect the Cumulative EPS 37.5% 32.0p 38.0p Companys desired market position.
As a result of this review, it was agreed that a 2.5% increase would Strategic measures: be appropriate, which aligns with Customer: 15.0% Improvements across all three divisions.
Net Promoter Score NPS is measured in a quantitative manner.
Outcomes will be explained at the end of the performance period.
Pension Colleagues: 10.0% Improvements across the whole Group.
All Executive Directors receive a cash Engagement Score Engagement is measured in a quantitative allowance of 20% of salary in lieu of a manner.
Outcomes will be explained pension contribution.
at the end of the performance period.
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between the Threshold and Maximum target.
Annual bonus For 2017, the CEO will have a maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of salary.
The other Executive Directors will have Cash bonuses may be clawed back up The strategic measures for the PSP awards a maximum bonus opportunity of 160% to the third anniversary of payment to be made in 2017 will reward progress of salary.
50% of the maximum bonus and any deferred share awards may be made in relation to both customers and opportunity will be paid for on-target subject to malus and or clawback up to colleagues.
With a higher weighting on performance.
the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, customers, we use Net Promoter Score in the event that results are materially NPS across each of our three divisions to Two-thirds of any bonus paid will be misstated, there is gross misconduct, or measure customer satisfaction.
Due to the received in cash with the remaining third there is significant reputational damage.
different customer profiles of our divisions, being deferred into Worldpay Group plc the methodology varies across the Group.
shares for a period of three years.
Worldpay PSP Colleague engagement is measured For 2017, the CEO will receive an award consistently across the whole Group.
The annual bonus for 2017 will be based on under the Worldpay PSP with a maximum The progress made at the end of the the following measures and weightings: opportunity of 200% of salary.
The performance period for both customers maximum opportunity for other Executive and colleagues will be assessed by the Measure Weighting Directors will be 150% of salary.
Committee and outlined in the relevant Annual Report at that time.
Due to the Underlying EBITDA 37.5% The PSP award granted in 2017 will be sensitive nature of the absolute values, E-C-S 37.5% assessed against the following performance the precise targets will not be published.
Personal objectives 25.0% measures and targets which will be However, the performance target ranges measured over three financial years, have been set at stretching levels with We intend to disclose the targets in as shown in Table 9 above.
maximum vesting only occurring for respect of each financial metric on a significant improvements.
retrospective basis at the same time as EPS and Underlying EBITDA have been the performance outcome is disclosed selected as measures as they are the To provide further alignment with in the Remuneration report after the financial performance measures which shareholders over the longer term, any end of each financial year.
will most closely reward the delivery of awards that vest for the members of the our growth strategy.
ET will be subject to an additional holding period.
Half of the shares will be released on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant and the remaining half released after five years.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 95 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Awards under the PSP may be clawed Table 10: Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees back up to the fifth anniversary of the 2 Role 2016 fee date of grant in the event that results 1 Chairman 425,000 are materially misstated, there is gross Non-Executive Director basic fee 70,000 misconduct, or there is significant Chairman of Committees Audit, Group Risk, Remuneration 30,000 reputational damage.
Member of Committees Audit, Group Risk, Remuneration, Nomination 10,000 Implementation of Non-Executive Senior Independent Director 30,000 Director remuneration policy for 2017 Disturbance allowance for non-UK based Non-Executive Directors 20,000 Chairman and Non-Executive 1 Inclusive of all Board fees.
Directorfees 2 Fees remain unchanged from 2015, except for the introduction of the disturbance allowance for non-UK based Non-Executive Directors from July 2016.
The fees payable to the Chairman Note: of theBoard of Directors and other Robin Marshall and James Brocklebank were not entitled to an annual fee.
Non-Executive Directors are outlined inTable10 opposite.
They are not anticipated to change in 2017.
Table 11: Executive Directors shareholding at 31 December 2016 audited Executive Directors shareholding Shares Unvested Unvested owned shares not shares Current Shareholding requirements audited outright or subject to subject to shareholding guideline In line with Worldpays remuneration 1 2 Executive vested performance performance % salary % salary policy, the CEO is required to hold 3 Philip Jansen 7,518,694 833,333 602,409 2,387% 300% shares in the Company equivalent 3 Rick Medlock 5,408,196 416,666 265,768 2,919% 200% to 300% of base salary 200% of salary 3 Ron Kalifa 5,742,171 416,666 252,480 3,263% 200% for other Executive Directors.
They have five years over which to reach 1 Vested shares remain subject to a time-based lock-in, whereby one-half are available in October 2017 and one-half in October 2018, except in the case of Rick Medlock and Ron Kalifa, who hold 1,667,640 and this shareholding requirement.
673,056 shares respectively, which are no longer subject to a time-based lock in.
2 Based on a year end share price of 2.699.
3 In addition, Philip Jansen, Rick Medlock and Ron Kalifa have an indirect interest respectively in 14,509, Table 11 opposite shows the shareholding 9,829 and 6,770 CVRs in the Company.
Information in respect of this class of shares is given in Notes 5f of each Executive Director, and any and 5i on pages 141 and 142. relevant connected persons, against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2016.
Table 12: Non-Executive Directors shareholding audited Non-Executive Directors shareholding Total number of shares Total number of shares owned as at 31 December owned as at 31 December audited Non-Executive Director 2016 2015 Table 12 opposite shows the shareholdings Sir Michael Rake 83,333 83,333 of each Non-Executive Director and their 1 John Allan 1,910,913 2,652,125 connected persons as at 31 December 2016.
1 Martin Scicluna 304,099 495,808 No further shares were acquired by Deanna Oppenheimer 30,000 n a the Non-Executive Directors between Karen Richardson None n a 31 December 2016 and 7 March 2017.
Robin Marshall n a None James Brocklebank n a None Summary of shareholder voting at the 1 All vested shares remain subject to a time-based lock-in until October 2017, except for 280,458 for John Allan.
2016 Annual General Meeting Table 13 opposite shows how shareholders voted in respect of the Remuneration report and Remuneration Table 13: Summary of shareholder voting at the 2016 Annual General Meeting policy at the AGM held on 10 May 2016.
Non-Executive Director Votes for % Votes against % Approve the Remuneration policy 99.7% 0.3% Approve the 2015 Remuneration report 99.2% 0.8%
