Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee has continued to ensure its work supports our long-term strategic goals and that remuneration levels fairly reflect ongoing performance in the context of wider market conditions and shareholder views.
Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear shareholder On behalf of the Board, I present our 2016 Directors Remuneration Report my first as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman This report sets out both our policy, as approved by shareholders at the Valerie Gooding 2014 annual general meeting, and how this policy was implemented Independent Non-Executive Director during 2016.
Last years report received a vote in favour from shareholders of over Key objective: 97% indicating support for the Committees focus on implementing To assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies the key principles of our executive remuneration approach.
for executive remuneration and reward packages for the individual The Committee remains committed to ensuring that all of our decisions Executive Directors.
are guided by the principles of: Responsibilities: a offering competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits: a determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the a ensuring our remuneration policy, and the manner in which remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Executive it is implemented, drives the behaviours that support our strategy and Directors and the senior management team: business objectives: a determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals a maintaining a pay for performance approach to remuneration including any compensation on termination of office: which ensures our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards a operating within recognised principles of good governance: and if and when they are justified by business performance: and a preparing an Annual Report on Directors remuneration.
a aligning the interests of our senior management team with those of shareholders by developing an approach to share ownership that helps to maintain commitment over the long term.
Project Spring during 2016 The year under review saw operational progress made under Project Spring.
In AMAP this was reflected through continued customer and data growth whilst in Europe our progress was evident in the fact that c. 70% of our markets returned to service revenue growth.
Our improved financial performance was complemented by significant steps being made in the Customer eXperience eXcellence phase of Project Spring.
This saw us increase the number of markets where we are Consumer NPS leader by 2, to 13 out of 21.
In addition to the above, the combined impact of these results has led to a number of notable achievements this year, including: a doubling the number of our 4G customers to 47m: a increasing our fixed broadband base to 13.4m an increase of 1.3m : a returning to full year growth in both EBITDA and service revenue: a strong enterprise performance: and a meeting targets in Europe for dropped call rates of less than 0.5% Contents of the Remuneration Report and for data sessions above three megabits per second of above 90%.
Remuneration policy Page 59 The remuneration policy table Page 60 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Page 64 Annual Report on remuneration Page 65 Remuneration Committee Page 65 2016 remuneration Page 66 2017 remuneration Page 72 Further remuneration information Page 73 57
