Remuneration Report Additional attendees Remuneration asappropriate Graham Roberts Chief Executive Committee members Orla Ball Company Secretary FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP Jenefer Greenwood Chairman PwC LLP Simon Laffin David Richardson Number of meetings in the year: five Responsibilities The Terms of Reference, which are Confirmation of third and final vesting reviewed annually and are available to of Executive Recruitment Plan ERP view on the Company website, require Review of the Directors Remuneration the Committee to meet at least once Policy peryear.
Design of new Performance Share Plan Review and allocation of staff awards The Committees activities during the under the VCP.
year included: Consideration of objectives and targets for annual bonuses Consideration of annual pay awards and bonuses Approval of increase in staff pension contributions company and personal Review and agreement of changes toallocation basis for the staff bonuspool 58 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements DEAR SHAREHOLDER New Policy Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2014 AGM for our existing Remuneration Introduction Policy, the main features of which are as follows: On behalf of the Board, I am pleased tointroduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March Element of pay Policy Positioning 2015 16 2016.
This report has been prepared Fixed pay e. g. salary, Conservatively positioned Graham Roberts: bythe Remuneration Committee pension salary setatlowerquartile Base salary: 321,500 theCommittee and approved by the to median Pension: 20% Board.
The report is split into two parts: Jonathan Murphy: The Annual Report on Remuneration Base salary: 215,000 which sets out payments and awards Pension: 13.5% made to the Directors and details the link between Company performance Annual bonus Median Graham Roberts 100% and remuneration for the 2015 16 salary max financial year.
Jonathan Murphy 50% The Directors Remuneration Policy salary max which sets out a new remuneration Long-term incentives Remuneration is geared Value Creation Plan policy which we propose applies for towards long-term page 79 2016 17 and the subsequent two years.
performance upper quartile The proposed Directors Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote atthe AGM on 19 July 2016.
This new Policy, if approved by shareholders, will last for a period of three years from the forthcoming AGM or until another Policy is approved in a general meeting.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 59 Remuneration Report continued Since its establishment in 2012, the VCP The vesting of VCP awards has led the has been the vehicle through which the Remuneration Committee to consider link between long-term performance and how best to continue to link remuneration remuneration has been delivered.
The to Assuras long-term performance and, structure of the VCP is explained later in indeed, whether the underlying principles this report but, in essence, involved a that have shaped Assuras approach one-off award of units that convert into toexecutive remuneration remain nil-cost options based on performance appropriate as the Company moves against an absolute TSR-based intothe next stage of its development.
This plan was shaped to a large extent by the circumstances that As a result, the Committee has prevailed at its launch in 2012, at which conducted a review of its Executive point there was a need to incentivise Director remuneration policy and Assuras then new management team practices.
This review was undertaken headed by Graham Roberts to inthe context of continued strong implement successfully the Companys performance at Assura.
As a result of new business strategy.
various capital raises, we believe we have the strongest balance sheet in the sector, making us attractive to both our potential The VCP has achieved this primary purpose and has, therefore, served property partners amongst GPs and the NHS and our equity and debt funders.
In theCompany and shareholders well.
Reflecting Assuras impressive addition, this strengthened balance sheet together with the longevity and security performance over recent years, at thefirst VCP Measurement Date of our property cash flows underpins our progressive dividend policy and leaves us 20August 2015, it was determined thatAssuras absolute TSR had grown by well placed to take advantage of further investment opportunities.
As set out on approximately 100% from the first trading day of the 2012 13 financial year, which page 1, key financial highlights in the yearinclude: resulted in all units effectively converting in full into nil-cost options over virtually the maximum 25 million shares allowed Investment property up 19.9% under the VCP.
More particularly, Graham to1,109.4 million Roberts units converted into nil-cost Adjusted EPRA NAV up 2.7% options over 11.8 million shares, with to46.1pence Jonathan Murphys equivalent being Net rental income up 21.2% 5.2 million shares.
Under the terms of to58.4million theVCP, 50% of these nil-cost options Underlying profit up 78.0% became exercisable immediately, with to28.3million 25% becoming exercisable three months after the announcement of the 2016 results and the remaining 25% three months after the announcement of the 2017 results provided in both cases that the relevant minimum TSR thresholds arestill achieved at those dates.
60 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements The key outputs from the Committees Noting best market practice, a deferred review were as follows: share element will be introduced into the annual bonus plan, under which upto 50% of any bonus earned by an Fixed pay Executive Director will be deferred into Fixed pay e. g. base salary, pension shares for two years to the extent that andbenefits was very conservatively the Executive Director does not already positioned against companies of a hold shares worth at least 300% comparable size.
appropriate to retain this below median positioning for now.
Consequently, for Clawback malus provisions should 2016 17 Graham Roberts salary will be continue to apply.
increased by 1.5% to 326,400, with Long-term incentives Jonathan Murphys salary increased Mindful of the fact that the VCP is by9.3% to 235,000. expected to vest in full in August 2017 assuming satisfaction of the threshold Jonathans higher increase reflects the fact return hurdle at that time, the Committee that, despite increases made over recent believes it important that a new long-term years, his salary remained significantly incentive opportunity is created for the belowthe average commanded by similar Companys well-regarded, highly post-holders.
The Committee is entirely performing management team.
However, comfortable that this increase is appropriate, rather than adopting another one-off given Jonathans continued strong end-to-end plan such as the VCP, the performance, together with the fact that Committee considers it appropriate to even his new salary remains in line only with adopt a more market standard approach lower quartile comparators, and is, therefore, to long-term incentive provision going consistent with the existing policy.
Pension forward, under which more modest benefits will remain unchanged.
regular annual awards are made which vest subject to performance over rolling Annual bonus three-year periods.
Our current policy is to offer a median level of bonus opportunity.
This policy Therefore, the Committee is seeking willcontinue.
However, our review shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM clearlyshowed that Jonathan Murphys toestablish a new Assura Performance current bonus opportunity of 50% of Share Plan PSP.
The PSP will be of salary doesnot accord with our policy, fairly standard design, in that awards of being substantially below median.
free shares can in the normal course be Consequently, his bonus opportunity made worth up to 150% of salary each willbe increased to 75% of salary.
year which vest three years later subject Otheroutputs from the review relating to i continued employment, ii the toannual bonus were as follows: satisfaction of performance conditions and iii a two-year post vesting holding We will retain the current approach to period unless shares worth 300% of bonus target setting and assessment.
Malus clawback Therefore, as stated in last years DRR, provisions will also apply to the new PSP the performance objectives set under which will be established in tandem with the annual bonus will continue to relate the adoption of an enhanced share to matters such as value-added ownership guideline increasing from opportunities within the portfolio and 100% to 300% of salary.
from market activity, financial targets, customer satisfaction, etc.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 61 Remuneration Report continued When considering which performance Other Policy features In conclusion conditions should be used to determine No other substantive changes are to be I trust you find this report helpful vesting of PSP awards, the Committee made to the existing Policy.
andinformative, and agree that the noted that the use of absolute targets inthe changes we are proposing to our Policy, VCP provided the management team with which have been the subject of a prior Other Committee activities a simple, transparent long-term incentive consultation with some of our major during the year opportunity that was directly aligned shareholders, are appropriate and very In addition to conducting the Policy withvalue creation for shareholders.
much in the long-term interests of our review, the other key decisions made by Consequently, the Committee wishes shareholders.
I look forward to receiving the Committee during and in relation to toretain the use of absolute targets in the your support for the three remunerationthe 2015 16 financial year include: new PSP.
We are aware of the preference related resolutions i. e. the vote on the of some shareholders for relative targets new Policy, new PSP and Implementation Reflecting another year of strong e. g. relative TSR, relative TPR NAV Report which will be tabled at our performance, the Executive Directors performance versus an IPD Index.
earned a bonus equal to 71% and However, the Committee does not believe 100% respectively of the maximum for that, in its niche asset class, there are JENEFER GREENWOOD 2015 16 71% of salary for the Chief sufficient listed comparators against CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION Executive and 50% for theFinance whichit would be meaningful to compare COMMITTEE Director.
Further details ofhow this Assuras TSR performance.
Other property bonus outturn was calculated can be companies, outside of primary care, found on page 78. havedifferent characteristics that make it As described above, performance inappropriate to use them as a benchmark.
against the targets applying to the Investors will often buy Assura precisely to VCPawards was calculated at the tap into this non-conforming asset class.
firstMeasurement Date, resulting in The IPD All Healthcare Index, which could effectively full provisional vesting of be potentially the most relevant benchmark awards and, therefore, full conversion to use for a relative Total Property Return of units into nil-cost options.
context, is somewhat dominated by Assura itself making up some 25% of the index.
Confirming of third and final vesting This index also includes significant ofthe ERP for Jonathan Murphy in non-related asset classes, such as care January 2016. homes, which again renders it a rather crude relative performance measure.
As a result, the Committee believes that the best approach would be to continue to use absolute targets for the PSP.
However, rather than solely using absolute TSR targets as was the case with the VCP, the Committee intends to use a blend of absolute TSR and NAV per share growth targets, thereby providing amore rounded assessment of overall performance in a simple, transparent fashion.
Further details of these targets can be found on page 85, with a full summary of the PSP as a whole found inthe Notice of AGM.
62 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our goal is to maximise returns for INTRODUCTION PART A: DIRECTORS shareholders over the long term.
Our This report contains the material REMUNERATION POLICY success is measured by three KPIs: requiredto be set out as the Directors The Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report for the purposes Policyasset out in this section of the ofPart 4 of the Large and Medium-sized Total Property Return measuring Remuneration Report will replace the Companies and Groups Accounts income and capital appreciation existing Policy which was approved by andReports Amendment Regulations generated from the portfolio.
shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will 2013, which amended the Large and take effect for all payments made to Total Accounting Return measuring Medium-sized Companies and Groups Directors from the date of the 2016 total reported returns for the Company Accounts and Reports Regulations AGM.
The Policy has been developed after all overheads and including the 2008 theRegulations.
with regard to the UK Corporate effect of leverage.
Governance Code and is felt to be Total Shareholder Return the Part A represents the Directors appropriate to support the long-term dividend and capital appreciation Remuneration Policy.
This is a new success of the Company while ensuring experienced by shareholders.
Policyfor which shareholder approval that it does not promote inappropriate Our remuneration arrangements either isbeing sought at the 2016 AGM and risk taking.
More particularly, the Policy directly or indirectly encourage delivery will, if approved, take effect immediately isframed to support the Companys of outstanding performance against after the 2016 AGM.
strategic drivers, which are set out on these KPIs.
The table below shows pages 14 and 15.
The Committee aims progress on the three KPIs over the Part B constitutes the implementation for the Policy anditsuse of performance period since inception of the VCP: sections of the Remuneration Report metrics to support shareholder value Implementation Report.
The auditor creation by incentivising sustainable Since hasreported on certain parts of the performance consistent with the 1 April Implementation Report and stated whether, strategicdrivers and appropriate risk Measure 2012 in their opinion, those parts have been management, and that: Total Property Return 24.7% properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those parts of the The interests of shareholders and Total Accounting Return 44.9% Implementation Report which have been management should be aligned Total Shareholder Return 94.1% subject to audit are clearly indicated.
Excessive risk taking should be discouraged and effective risk management given due consideration It should retain and motivate, basedonselection and interpretation of appropriate benchmarks Poor performance should not berewarded The long-term interests of the Company should be promoted.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 63 Remuneration Report continued Based on the above, the new Policy is set out below: Objective and link Performance measurement to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and assessment Fixed remuneration Base salary An Executive Directors base Any increase in salary for None.
Core element of remuneration salary is considered by the Executive Directors will take set at a level that recognises Committee on appointment intoaccount salary levels the size and complexity of the and then reviewed periodically ofcomparable companies Company and when combined or when an individual changes within the FTSE Real Estate with the performance-based position or responsibility.
Investment Trusts and FTSE variable remuneration potential Real Estate Investment can attract and retain Services sectors, and Any changes normally take Executive Directors of the companies of comparable effect from 1 April each year.
quality to execute the strategy.
When making a determination In the normal course of as to the appropriate salary events, increases in the level, the Committee first Executive Directors salaries considers remuneration willnot exceed the average practices within the Group increase for employees, asawhole and, where savewhere there is a clear considered relevant, misalignment with market levels.
conductsobjective research However, individuals who are on companies within the recruited or promoted to the Companys peer group.
Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the It should be noted that the targeted Policy level until they results of any benchmarking become established in their will only be one of many role.
In such cases subsequent factors taken into account increases in salary may be bythe Committee.
Other higher than the average until the factors include: target positioning is achieved.
Individual performance andexperience Pay and conditions for employees across theGroup The general performance ofthe Company The economic environment.
No recovery provisions apply to base salary.
64 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Objective and link Performance measurement to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and assessment Benefits Executive Directors may Benefit values vary year on None.
The Company provides receive a benefit package year depending on premiums benefits in line with which includes: and the maximum value is the marketpractice.
cost of the provision of these benefits.
The Committee will Health insurance monitor the costs of benefits Death in service benefits inpractice and will ensure Company car allowance thatthe overall costs do not Other benefits as provided increase by more than the from time to time.
Committee considers appropriate given all Benefits are reviewed thecircumstances.
periodically to ensure that they remain market competitive.
The payments are not included in salary for the purposes of calculating any benefit or level of participation in incentive arrangements.
No recovery provisions apply to benefits.
Pension Executive Directors can receive The maximum employers None.
contribution is 20% of The Company provides a pension contributions to levelof pension contribution personal pension arrangements basesalary for the Chief Executive and13.5% for inorder to be competitive and or, if a Director is impacted by toensure that it has the annual or lifetime limits on theFinance Director.
contribution levels to qualifying abilityto recruit and retain Executive Directors.
pension plans, the balance or all can be paid as a cash supplement.
Pension related payments are not included for the purposes of calculating any benefit or level of participation in incentive arrangements.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 65 Remuneration Report continued Objective and link Performance measurement to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and assessment Performance-based variable remuneration Bonus Awards may be made The maximum annual bonus Performance measures are set Incentivises the achievement annually.
for Executive Directors is annually based on a number of a range of performance 100% of salary.
At threshold offinancial and strategic targets that are key to the performance 0% of maximum measures which may include The performance period is success of the Company.
but are not limited to : onefinancial year.
Payouts may be made in a mix of cashand deferred shares At target up to 75% of Delivering specific added determined bythe Committee maximum can be earned.
value activities following thefinancial year Delivering financial goals end, based on achievement Improving operational against a range of financial performance and strategictargets.
Developing the performance capability of the team.
Where an element of bonus ispayable as deferred shares, The Committee has the individuals may be able to discretion to vary the receive a dividend equivalent performance targets incash or shares equal to the depending on economic value of dividends which conditions and Company would have accrued during specific circumstances that the vesting period.
may occur during the year.
The Committee views the At the end of each financial performance targets for the year the Committee takes bonus plan as commercially intoaccount the Companys sensitive and that it would be financial performance and detrimental to the interests of achievement against key the Company to disclose them short-term objectives before the start of the financial established year.
Appropriate details of the at the beginning ofthe year.
targets will be disclosed after This involves establishing in the end of the relevant advance whatconstitutes financial year in that years success for good, strong or Remuneration Report, except outstanding performance.
It is where their disclosure remains the Committees approach to commercially sensitive.
view the performance in the round at the end of the year, Bonus payments are not taking into account extraneous pensionable, but are subject events and changing priorities, to clawback provisions.
66 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Objective and link Performance measurement to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity and assessment Long-term incentives Awards under the PSP may be In the normal course, the The Committee may set such granted as nil nominal cost PSPallows for awards over performance conditions on To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained options or conditional awards shares with a maximum value PSPawards as it considers which vest to the extent of 150% of base salary per appropriate whether financial performance over the long term, and to promote performance conditions are financial year.
However, ornon-financial and whether satisfied over a period of at theCommittee retains the corporate, divisional or individual.
alignment with shareholders interests, the Company least three years, with a post flexibility to grant awards vesting holding period also inexcess ofthis amount, intends to operate the Performance periods may Performance Share potentially applying.
Vested upto300% ofsalary, if the beover such periods as the Plan PSP.
awards may also be settled Committee considers that Committee selects at grant, incash.
itisin shareholders interests which will not be less than to doso e. g. if exceptional butmay be longer than circumstances exist relating The PSP rules allow that threeyears.
thenumber of shares subject to vested PSP awards may No more than 25% of awards beincreased to reflect the vest for attaining the threshold value ofdividends that would level of performance conditions.
have been paid in respect ofany ex-dividend dates In addition, while performance fallingbetween the grant measures and targets used in ofawardsand the expiry the PSP will generally remain of any vesting period or unaltered, if in the Committees applicable holding period.
opinion, circumstances are such that a different or Clawback and malus amended target would be a provisions apply to fairer measure of performance, PSPawards.
such amended or different target can be set provided that it is not materially more or less difficult to satisfy than was the original target at the time it wasset.
Shareholding requirement The Committee operates The Executive Directors are To ensure alignment between asystem of shareholder expected to acquire shares Executive Directors and guidelines to encourage equal to at least 300% of their shareholders interests over long-term share ownership salary.
At the Committees alonger time horizon.
discretion this may be acquired over a timeframe determined by the Committee.
Executive Directors may not sell any shares acquired via anyshare-based incentive plan if the sale would take their shareholding below the shareholding requirement.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 67 Remuneration Report continued Differences in Remuneration Policy The composition and total value of Notes to the future policy theExecutive Directors remuneration for all employees forExecutive Directors package for the financial year 2016 17 Any differences in the types of reward Performance measures atminimum, on-target and maximum between Directors and staff reflect andtargets performance scenarios are set out in common practice.
All employees are The annual bonus plan measures are thecharts below.
entitled to base salary, benefits and selected to provide direct alignment defined contribution pension payments withthe short-term operational targets 1,400 and are eligible for annual bonuses and ofthe Company.
Care is taken to ensure 1,225 1,200 to participate in the PSP although actual that short-term targets are always 1,000 participation in the PSP will be limited to 899 40% supportive of the long-term objectives.
the most senior executives within the 800 This is especially important in a business 27% Company.
The bonus targets for staff are which has a long-term investment horizon.
600 27% 100% 27% more focused on specific personal goals 410 Short-term targets are stretching and 400 that further the Companys interests.
The geared to encourage outstanding 100% 46% 33% 200 maximum bonus opportunity available is performance, which if delivered can 0 based on the seniority and responsibility earnthe Executive up tothe maximum Minimum On-target Maximum of the role.
Chief Executive Graham Roberts Travel and hospitality The PSP targets are selected to ensure Multiple reporting periods While the Committee does not consider Annual variable that the Executives are encouraged to, Fixed elements itto form part of benefits in the normal and appropriately rewarded for, delivering usage of that term, it has been advised against the Companys key long-term 1,400 that corporate hospitality, whether paid strategic goals so as to ensure a clear 1,200 for by the Company or another, and and transparent alignment of interests 1,000 business travel for Directors and in between Executives and shareholders 810 exceptional circumstances their families 800 and the generation of sustainable 590 may technically come within the 43% long-term returns.
600 30% applicable rules and so the Committee 400 282 22% 22% expressly reserves the right for the Discretion 200 Committee to authorise such activities 100% 48% 35% The Committee has discretion in several 0 within its agreed policies.
Minimum On-target Maximum areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise Financial Director Jonathan Murphy Illustrations of application operational and administrative discretions ofRemuneration Policy Multiple reporting periods under relevant plan rules approved by Annual variable The policy of the Committee is to shareholders.
In addition, the Committee Fixed elements alignExecutive Directors interests has the discretion to amend policy with withthose of shareholders and to regard to minor or administrative matters givethe Executive Directors incentives where it would be, in the opinion of the toperform at the highest levels.
To Committee, disproportionate to seek or achievethis, the Committee seeks to await shareholder approval.
In addition, ensure that a significant proportion of for the avoidance of doubt, in approving theremuneration package varies with this Policy, authority is given to the theperformance of the Company Company to honour any commitments andthat targets are aligned with the entered into with current or former Companys stated business objectives.
Directors prior to the adoption of thisPolicy.
68 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com 000 000 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows: Minimum Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2016 17.
Benefits measured as benefits paid in the year ended 31 March 2016.
Pension measured as the defined contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions of 20% 13.5% of salary.
Base salary Benefits Pension Total fixed 2016 17 000 000 000 000 Graham Roberts 326 19 65 410 Jonathan Murphy 235 15 32 282 On-target Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target excluding share price appreciation and dividends : Annual bonus: consists of the on-target bonus 75% of maximum opportunity used for illustrative purposes.
Long-term incentive: consists of the midpoint level of vesting 50% vesting under the PSP.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excluding share price appreciation and dividends : Annual bonus: consists of maximum bonus of 100% of base salary for Graham Roberts and 75% for Jonathan Murphy.
Long-term incentive: consists of the face value of awards at 150% of salary for Messrs Roberts and Murphy under the PSP.
Approach to recruitment remuneration and promotions The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
The remuneration package for any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
The Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the Policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but therewould be no retrospective application of the Policy in relation to existing incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of theongoing remuneration of the employee.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the following years Annual Report onRemuneration.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 69 Remuneration Report continued The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Element Policy Fixed remuneration The salary level, benefits and pension entitlement will be set taking into account anumber of factors including market practice, the individuals experience and responsibilities and the policies for salary, benefits and pensions for existing ExecutiveDirectors as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
In certain circumstances the Committee may choose to recruit unproven Executive Directors at a salary below the market rate with a view to providing above average increases in salary until an appropriate salary positioning is achieved, subject to performance, experience and the individual proving themselves in the role.
Performance-based variable The recruited Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan remuneration and the PSP as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum annual variable remuneration that an Executive Director can receive is limited to 400% of salary i. e. the annual bonus plan maximum of 100% of salary plus the overriding PSP maximum of 300%.
Share buyouts replacement awards The Committees policy is not to provide buyouts as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of a recruitment justified the provision of a buyout, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment.
The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied.
Any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the estimated equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used to grant up to the estimated equivalent value.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive is relocated from one work-base to another, the Company may provide compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive at the discretion of the Committee.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any incremental cost of living differences and or housing and schooling costs.
Non-Executive Directors would be recruited on the terms set out herein in respect of the main Policy for such Directors.
70 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Approach to service contracts and cessation of employment Service contracts Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Company which is terminable by the Company on six months notice and by the Director on six months notice.
The Companys practice is to appoint the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, under letters of appointment.
Their appointment is usually for a term of three years subject to annual re-election by the shareholders at the Companys AGM.
When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard for market practice and Corporate Governance best practice.
Notice period by Executive Director Date of contract Unexpired term CompanyorDirector Graham Roberts 29 March 2012 Rolling contract 6 months Jonathan Murphy 2 January 2013 Rolling contract 6 months Date of letter Unexpired term Non-Executive Director of appointment asat31March2016 David Richardson 28 January 2015 22 months Jenefer Greenwood 28 January 2015 22 months Date of letter Unexpired term Executive Chairman of appointment asat31March2016 Simon Laffin 28 January 2015 22 months All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing Director, the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to theCompany whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of anyclaim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Good leaver status The Committee has discretion to determine whether an individual is a good leaver under the Companys incentive plans.
Where the Committee uses its general discretion to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver, it will provide a full explanation to shareholders of the basis for its determination.
The table below sets out, for each element of total remuneration, the Companys policy on payment for loss of office in respect of Executive Directors and any additional discretion available to the Committee: www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 71 Remuneration Report continued Element Cessation of employment Change of control Base salary, benefits, pension There will be no compensation for normal No special provisions.
resignation or in the event of termination by the Company due to misconduct.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors will be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice.
Salary, benefits and pension contributions salary supplement will normally be paid overthe notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination for the salary, value of benefits and pension amounts payable during the notice period.
In all cases the Company willseek to mitigate any payments due.
Bonus plan Where an Executive Directors employment On a change of control triggering the is terminated after the end ofa performance Executives termination of contract, year but before the payment is made, the theextent to which the performance Executive may beeligible for an annual requirements are satisfied will determine bonus award forthat performance year the annual bonus which is earned.
subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Note that this excludes a reorganisation orreconstruction where ownership does Where an Executive Directors employment not materially change.
is terminated during a performance year and provided the individual is a good The Committee will take into account leaver, a pro-rata annual bonus award for such factors as it consider relevant in the period worked in that performance year relation to the bonus plan payment for may be payable at the Committees theyear in which the event occurs.
discretion subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
On a change of control takeover, PSP Normally, on termination of employment The treatment of awards granted under before the end of the performance period, reconstruction, amalgamation, windingupor demerger, unvested awards will the PSP will be governed by the rules, awards lapse in full.
However, in good leaver asapproved by shareholders.
situations e. g. death, injury, ill-health, vest subject to the application of the performance conditions and subject to disability, retirement with agreement of employer, sale of business subsidiary, or time pro-rating.
The Committee will also retain a standard discretion to vary waive otherwise in the Committees discretion, awards will not lapse but will instead continue time pro-rating on a takeover.
There will be compulsory roll-over of awards on an and will vest at the normal vesting date oroncessation, subject in both cases to internal reconstruction.
satisfaction of the performance conditions and a pro-rata reduction as the Committee determines to reflect the shortened length ofservice.
In addition, reflecting standard practice, the Committee can waive pro-rating in its discretion.
Any awards subject to a post vesting holding period will vest on cessation, save in a case of summary dismissal.
72 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element Cessation of employment Change of control 1 On a change of control takeover, VCP On termination of employment before a The treatment of awards granted under Measurement Date MD, all unvested reconstruction, amalgamation, winding-up or demerger before the MD there will be the VCP is governed by the rules, as awards will lapse, unless the following approved by shareholders.
circumstances apply: anew MD deemed to be the date of the change of control.
Death, injury, ill-health or disability.
In determining the value created, the Retirement or redundancy.
Measurement Price will be the offer price Any other circumstances if the Committee for the Companys shares.
The calculation decides in any particular case.
of the number of Company shares to be allocated to a participant will be as at any Where an Executive Director is deemed a other MD.
good leaver prior to the MD, the Committee will have discretion to allow some or all of All accrued nil-cost options will vest on the awards to vest by deeming: achange of control and be exercisable together with any other vested nil-cost There to be a new MD at the date of options immediately for a set period of cessation and the number of nil-cost upto six months.
options to be accrued will be calculated as at any other MD: or That the nearest normal MD to the date ofcessation of employment can be used.
All accrued nil-cost options will then vest and be immediately exercisable including any other vested nil-cost options for aperiod of six months.
Anyone who is not a good leaver will be a bad leaver.
Where a bad leaver ceases to be employed prior to the awards becoming exercisable all awards will lapse including accrued unvested nil-cost options.
No futher awards are to be made under the VCP.
Therefore the above summary solely relates to the treatment of VCP awards already made.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 73 Remuneration Report continued Future policy table Non-Executive Directors Performance Objective and link measurement tostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity andassessment The Company sets fee levels Fee levels are sufficient Fees will take account of None.
necessary to attract and retain toattract individuals with feelevels of comparable experienced and skilled Nonappropriate knowledge companies within the FTSE Executive Directors to advise andexperience.
Real Estate Investment and assist with establishing Trustsand FTSE Real Estate and monitoring the strategic Investment Services sectors, Non-Executive Directors are objectives of the Company.
and companies of comparable paid a base fee and additional size and complexity.
fees for Chairmanship of Committees and or acting as the Senior Independent Director.
The aggregate fees and any benefits of Non-Executive Fees are reviewed periodically Directors will not exceed thelimit from time to time with any changes generally effective from 1 April.
prescribed within the Companys Articles of Association for such fees In exceptional circumstances, currently 700,000 p. a. fees may also be paid for inaggregate.
additional time spent on the Companys business outside of the normal duties.
Non-Executive Directors do notreceive a bonus, do not participate in awards under theCompanys share plans, and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
The Company reserves theright to provide benefits including travel and office support to the Non-Executive Directors.
74 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Attributable to managements Consideration of employment External appointments performance achievement of the The Companys policy is to permit an conditions elsewhere in Assura VCPperformance conditions i. e. an Executive Director to serve as a Nonwhen developing the Policy 8% p. a. return to shareholders must Executive Director elsewhere when this In setting the Remuneration Policy for beachieved before any value is does not conflict with the individuals Directors, the pay and conditions of createdfor participants duties to the Company, and where an otheremployees of Assura are taken Executive Director takes such a role they Aligned with the value created for intoaccount, including any base salary may be entitled to retain any fees which shareholders during the relevant increases awarded.
The Committee is they earn from that appointment.
provided with data on the remuneration structure for all staff and uses this Total equity exposure of Full details of the actual adjustments information to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company.
Executives at 31 March 2016 The Chief Executive and Finance The Company has a small number Directortogether owned 4,957,517 million The first Measurement Date under the VCP occurred on 20 August 2015.
As a ofemployees and applies the same shares as at 31March 2016 31 March broadpolicy inrelation to incentive 2015: 3,788,281 million representing consequence of the Companys strong performance, the VCP units converted compensation throughout the 0.3% of theCompanys share capital.
All employees are eligible A table summarising their interests is effectively in full into nil-cost options over24,999,950 shares out of the total for annual bonuses and to participate included in the Annual Report on inthe PSP although, in practice, Remuneration Part B below on page 82.
This resulted in Graham Roberts units converting into 11,779,255 participation inthePSP is likely to belimited to senior management.
nil-cost options, and Jonathan Murphys During the year Graham Roberts units into 5,153,423 nil-cost options.
sold2,500,000 shares at 52.33 pence Although the Committee takes into pershare and Jonathan Murphy sold account the pay and conditions of other Under the rules, 50% of any shares that 1,064,354 shares at 55.0 pence per share.
employees, the Company did not consult accrued at the first Measurement Date with employees when drawing up the inthe form of nil-cost options became Key reward decisions relating Policy report.
exercisable at that date, 50% become to incentive pay in 2015 16 exercisable at the second Measurement 2015 16 annual bonus outturn Date and 100% of accrued nil-cost Consideration of A table showing the full details on the optionsat the third Measurement Date shareholderviews 2015 16 bonus assessment is set out provided the minimum return thresholds The Committee takes the views of onpage 78. foreach Tranche are achieved at each theshareholders seriously and these Measurement Date.
On 25 September 2015 views are taken into account in shaping First vesting under the VCP Messrs Roberts and Murphy exercised the Remuneration Policy and practice.
As reported last year, to take account first 50% of their nil-cost options resulting in Shareholder views are considered when of three significant capital raising events, them receiving after the payment of income evaluating and setting remuneration certain adjustments were made to the tax and NICs 3,121,503 and 1,365,657 strategy and the Committee commits VCP pay-out algorithm to ensure the shares respectively.
toconsulting with key shareholders potential VCP benefit created at each priorto any significant changes to its Measurement Date is: Remuneration Policy as has been the case in relation to the establishment of the new PSP and related Policy changes.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 75 Remuneration Report continued oversight of the remuneration policy and satisfied that no conict of interest exists PART B: ANNUAL REPORT ON packages for other senior members of or existed in the provision of these services.
The written Terms of Reference of The total fees paid to PwC in respect of UNLESS STATED the Committee are available on the services to the Committee during the year This Annual Report on Remuneration Companys website and from the were 58,000.
Fees were determined contains details of how the Companys Company on request.
based on the scope and nature of the Remuneration Policy for Directors was projects undertaken for the Committee.
implemented during the financial year The Committee held five meetings during ended 31 March 2016.
Its activities during and for the Also during 2015 16 the Committee been prepared in accordance with the financial year 2015 16 included: appointed FIT Remuneration Consultants provisions of the Companies Act 2006 LLP FIT as its new independent and the Regulations.
FIT is also a member of the Reviewing salary levels for the resolution to approve this report will Executive Directors and Chairman Remuneration Consultants Group and, be put to shareholders at the AGM.
assuch, voluntarily operates under the Considering objectives and targets code of conduct in relation to executive for2015 16 annual bonus payments Consideration by the remuneration consulting in the UK.
anddetermining the bonus payments Committee of matters relating TheCommittee reviewed the nature atyear end to Directors remuneration oftheservices provided by FIT and was Calculating vesting of VCP awards at the The members of the Committee during satisfied that no conict of interest exists first Measurement Date in August 2015 2015 16 were Jenefer Greenwood or existed in the provision of these services.
Committee Chairman, Simon Laffin Confirming the third and final vesting The total fees paid to FIT in respect of and David Richardson.
The members of ofthe ERP for Jonathan Murphy in services to the Committee during the year the Committee have no personal financial January 2016 were 30,000.
Fees were determined interest, other than as shareholders, based on the scope and nature of the Conducting a full review of the existing in matters to be decided, and no potential projects undertaken for the Committee.
Remuneration Policy conflicts of interest arising from crossPreparing this report.
Other than Mr Laffin, the The Committee also sought the views Non-Executives have no day to day ofthe Chief Executive, Graham Roberts, Advisors to the Committee involvement in running the business.
The Chief Executive is During 2015 16 the Committee received given notice of all meetings and, at the external advice initially from PwC, which The Committee is responsible for request of the Chairman of the Committee, had previously been appointed by the recommending to the Board the attends part of the meetings.
The Chief Committee and was considered objective remuneration policy for Executive Executive may request that he attends and and independent.
PwC is a member of Directors and the senior management and speaks at Committee meetings.
In normal the Remuneration Consultants Group for setting the remuneration packages for circumstances, the Chief Executive will be and, as such, voluntarily operates under each Executive Director.
The Committee consulted on general policy matters and the code of conduct in relation to executive sets the fees of the Chairman and the fees matters concerning the other Executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The for the Non-Executive Directors are set Director andemployees.
Committee reviewed the nature of the bythe Chairman in conjunction with the services provided by PwC and was Chief Executive.
The Committee also has 76 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors audited The remuneration of Executive Directorsshowing the breakdown between components with comparative figures for the prior year isshown below.
Figures provided have been calculated inaccordance with the Regulations: LongTaxable term 1 Executive Director 000 Year Salary benefits Bonus Pensions incentives Total Graham Roberts 2015 16 322 19 228 64 3,114 3,747 2014 15 315 15 284 63 677 2 Jonathan Murphy 2015 16 215 15 108 29 1,445 1,812 2014 15 180 11 84 24 84 383 Notes 1.
The long-term incentives column includes the value of the VCP awards that vested during the year as described more fully below.
Jonathan Murphys long-term incentive figure includes the value of vested ERP awards.
Benefits Taxable benefits comprised health insurance, death in service benefits, critical illness, Group Income Protection and company car allowance.
2015 16 annual bonus planoutcome In determining the award for 2015 16, theCommittee took into account the Companys financial performance and achievements against key short-term objectives established at the beginning ofthe year.
This involved establishing in advance what would constitute success for good, strong or outstanding performance.
The performance targets and performance are summarised on page 78.
It is the Committees approach to view the performance in the round at the end of the year, taking into account extraneous events and changing priorities, where relevant.
The requirement to achieve a step change in scale and to reduce leverage at the same time were identified as the key critical success factors.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 77 Remuneration Report continued For 2015 16 the maximum potential bonus awards were 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and 50% of salary forthe Finance Director.
Actual performance Performance measures Actual targets set at the beginning oftheyear outcome Grow the scale of the portfolio Good 90 million additions, Strong 135 million, Strong 141 million Outstanding 180 million Grow income through extensions Good 100,000 additional rent, Strong 150,000, Nil annualised Outstanding 200,000 Let vacant space Good 15%, Strong 20%, Outstanding 25% Outstanding 34% Deliver underlying budget Good 100%, Strong 105%, Outstanding 110% Strong 106% Reduce average cost of debt Good 30 basis points reduction, Strong 40 basis Strong 44 basis points points, Outstanding 50 basis points Increase the percentage of tenants asserting Good 75%, Strong 80%, Outstanding 85% Outstanding 90% they would recommend Assura to others In addition to the above financial targets, the Committee agreed personal objectives for both Executive Directors at the start of the year.
The Chief Executive was asked to pursue all possible lobbying activities: to secure the British Property Federations status as a strong policy contributor to both the NHS and the Government on primary care issues: and to open development opportunities in London.
He was expected to keep the Board fully appraised of the lobbying programme, its successes and failures.
The Committee reviewed performance against the above targets and took into consideration that the overall performance on financial targets was Strong.
The Chief Executive has contributed greatly to the BPFs growing status.
The Board had felt fully informed, although progress on opening up the London market was limited.
The Committee also took account of the success ofthe equity issue in the year that has transformed Assuras balance sheet.
Overall, it was felt that great progress had been achieved by the Chief Executive, despite being unwell, culminating in a leave of absence towards the end of the year.
Accordingly, taking all factors into account, the Committee awarded 71% of the maximum award, equivalent to 71% of annual base salary.
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the Finance Director.
His financial targets were as above, overall being rated Strong.
His individual targets were to: enhance his own understanding of current capital market conditions and macro-economic influences: identify opportunities and formulate a comprehensive medium-term financing strategy: review funding alternatives: identify alternatives and opportunities: and keep the Board fully appraised.
The Committee concluded that the Finance Director had performed in an outstanding manner on all these objectives, culminating in the equity issuance and subsequent repayment ofdebt.
It also noted that the Finance Director had played a growing role in leading communications with shareholders, not least in the equity raise.
When the Chief Executive became unwell, the Finance Director took on more responsibility and helped to ensure that the business continued to operate effectively.
As a result, the Committee decided to award the Finance Director 100%of his bonus, equivalent to 50% of annual base salary.
Total pension entitlements No Executive Director or any member of staff is entitled to a defined benefit pension arrangement.
Graham Roberts and Jonathan Murphy received payments in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 20.0% and 13.5% of salary respectively for 2015 16.
78 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Vesting of long-term incentive awards audited Value Creation Plan Description of adjustments As reported last year, to take account of three significant capital raising events, certain adjustments were made to the VCP pay-out algorithm to ensure the potential VCP benefit created at each Measurement Date is: Attributable to managements performance achievement of the VCP performance conditions i. e. an 8% p. a. return toshareholders must be achieved before any value is created for participants Aligned with the value created for shareholders during the relevant measurement period.
More particularly, the Committee amended the Threshold Price applicable to the first Measurement Date i. e. 20 August 2015, whereby, for each capital raising event to be known as Tranches, a Threshold Price was set which must be exceeded before any value could be earned by participants.
The paragraphs below summarise the alterations.
The Threshold Price applicable to each Tranche of shares at the first Measurement Date was set as follows: Original New Threshold Threshold Shares Price Price Tranche m pence pence Share capital at the start of the VCP 1 529.5 39.37 39.37 Capital issued for MP Reality Holdings Ltd acquisition 2 44.3 39.37 44.95 Capital issued following placing offer to shareholders 3 414.3 39.37 45.06 Capital issued for Metro MRI Ltd acquisition 4 18.8 39.37 51.29 The Threshold Price for each new capital event i. e. Tranches 24 was calculated by using the price at which new capital was raised i. e. the Offer Price for Tranche 3 or the price on the day of issue Tranches 2 and 4 and increasing this by the 8% p. a. compound threshold return rate from the date of the event to the first Measurement Date.
The original Threshold Price of 39.37pence would continue to apply to Tranche 1 Base Price.
Each Tranche under the VCP was tested on the first Measurement Date and was subject to the original terms and conditions of the VCP, except that as above each Tranche had its own Threshold Price.
At subsequent Measurement Dates i. e. one and two years after the first Measurement Date, it was determined that the methodology for determining the Threshold Price for each Tranche will be the same whereby the Threshold Price for each Tranchewill be the higher of: The highest return achieved at any previous Measurement Date treated asseparate Tranches : or 8% p. a. TSR from the Base Price for Tranche 1 or the capital raising price price on the day ofissue for Tranches 2, 3 and 4 andothers if further capital raising events occur.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 79 Remuneration Report continued Each Tranche has its own minimum return threshold which must be achieved before any awards earned and deferred at previous Measurement Dates vest at the second or third Measurement Dates.
This means that awards rolled over i. e. accrued but not vested from previous Measurement Dates must sustain an 8% p. a. TSR from the Base Price for Tranche 1 or the capital raising price price on the day of issue for Tranches 2, 3 and 4.
It was the Committees view that these adjustments: Were in the best interests of our shareholders on the basis that they ensured that shareholders were protected from any immediate value transfer as a result of the capital raising events Would provide participants with the opportunity to share in any value created for shareholders on the new capital, in line with the rules of the VCP, provided the minimum level of return on all new shares i. e. the 8% p. a. return threshold is achieved.
The maximum aggregate number of shares that can be issued to satisfy awards under the VCP to all participants remained limited to 25 million.
Therefore, no adjustments were made to the cap on the number of shares that could be earned under theVCP as a result of the changes to the share capital.
Vesting at first Measurement Date As noted above, the first Measurement Date occurred on 20 August 2015.
The table below sets out the actual value creation under the VCP as calculated at the first Measurement Date, using as prescribed in the plan rules the average share price over three months following the announcement of the Companys financial results for the 2014 15 financial year plus dividends paid on shares inissue: Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Tranche 4 pence pence pence pence per share per share per share per share Average share price at first Measurement Date A 56.27 56.27 56.27 56.27 Dividends paid per share in issue B 5.0625 2.40 1.95 1.50 Measurement Price C A B 61.3325 58.67 58.22 57.77 Threshold Price T 39.37 44.95 45.06 51.29 Value created C-T 21.9625 13.72 13.16 6.48 As per the VCP performance condition, the total participant benefit available was 10% of the above value created for each Tranche multiplied by the number of shares in each Tranche, which amounts in total to 17.8 million.
As a consequence of the Companys strong performance up to the first Measurement Date, the VCP units converted virtually in full into nil-cost options over 24,999,950 shares out of the total 25 million pool.
This resulted in Graham Roberts units converting into 11,779,255 nil-costoptions, and Jonathan Murphys into 5,153,423 options.
Under the rules, 50% of any shares that accrued at the first Measurement Date in the form of nil-cost options became exercisable atthe first Measurement Date, 50% of the remainder become exercisable at the second and 100% of accrued nil-cost options at thethird Measurement Date provided the minimum return thresholds for each Tranche are achieved at each Measurement Date.
On25September 2015 Messrs Roberts and Murphy exercised the first 50% of their nil-cost options resulting in them receiving afterthepayment of income tax and NICs 3,121,503 and 1,365,657 shares respectively.
80 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements The impact of the conversion of Messrs Roberts and Murphys units into nil-cost options and the above exercises is set out in the table below: Awards Granted Lapsed Exercised Awards Year of outstanding during the during the during the outstanding Exercise Exercisable Name grant at 31 3 15 year year year at 31 3 16 price between Graham Roberts 2015 5,889,628 5,889,628 Nil-cost Aug 1523 Graham Roberts 2015 2,944,814 2,944,814 Nil-cost Aug 1623 Graham Roberts 2015 2,944,813 2,944,813 Nil-cost Aug 1723 Jonathan Murphy 2015 2,576,712 2,576,712 Nil-cost Aug 1523 Jonathan Murphy 2015 1,288,356 1,288,356 Nil-cost Aug 1623 Jonathan Murphy 2015 1,288,355 1,288,355 Nil-cost Aug 1723 Jonathan Murphys ERP As previously reported, awards were made under the ERP to Jonathan Murphy in 2013 to facilitate his recruitment.
The awards have no performance criteria and vest in three equal instalments on the first, second and third anniversary of their award.
The final instalment vested in January 2016: Number of nil-cost 1 Award Performance measures optionsvested Value of vested awards 000 ERP awards None 153,334 83.5 Note 1.
The value of nil-cost options is calculated using the closing middle market share price on 29 January 2016 of 54.5 pence per share, the date the final instalment of awards became exercisable.
Single total figure of remuneration Non-Executives audited The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components, with comparative figures for the prior year, is shown below.
Additional fees represent Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Board Committee fees.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 81 Remuneration Report continued Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited Directors share interests and, where applicable, achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below.
In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding equal to 100% of their basic salary in the Company.
It is proposed that this threshold be increased to 300% in the revised Remuneration Policy to be presented at this years AGM.
Shareholding and other interests at 31 March 2016 Shares Total required Number of Number of interests to be held shares beneficially held at Shareholding percentage required to owned 31 March requirement 1 2 Director of salary hold shares 2016 met?
Shareholding requirement calculation is based on the share price at the end of the year 53.1 pence at 31 March 2016.
Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons.
The Company funds its share incentives through a combination of new issue and market purchased shares.
The Company monitors the levels of share grants and the impact of these on the ongoing requirement for shares.
In accordance with guidelines set out by the Investment Association the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans, with an inner 5% limit applying to discretionary plans.
Other than the Executive Chairman Simon Laffin, who was allocated 33,803 Ordinary Shares via the scrip dividend alternative, there has been no movement in Directors shareholdings since the year end.
Performance graph and table The Committee believes that the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy and the supporting reward structure provide clear alignment with the Companys performance.
The Committee believes it is appropriate to monitor the Companys performance against the FTSE All Share Real Estate Investment Trusts index for these purposes.
The graph below sets out the TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trusts index and for comparison, the FTSE All Share index over a seven-year period as required by the Regulations: 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 March March March March March March March March 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Assura FTSE Real Estate Investment Trusts FTSE All Share 82 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below shows the Chief Executives remuneration packages over the past seven years: Long-term Bonus incentive Single figure pay-out vesting rates of total as percentage as percentage remuneration maximum maximum 1 Year Name 000 opportunity opportunity 2015 16 Graham Roberts 3,747 71 100 2014 15 Graham Roberts 677 90 2013 14 Graham Roberts 680 95 2012 13 Graham Roberts 674 100 2 2011 12 Nigel Rawlings 395 85 2010 11 Nigel Rawlings 314 75 2009 10 Nigel Rawlings from 16 03 10 11 3, 4 2009 10 Richard Burrell until 15 03 10 487 Notes 1.
Includes base salary, taxable benefits, bonus payments for the relevant financial year, long-term incentive awards that vested for performance related to the financial year and cash in lieu of pension.
Nigel Rawlings ceased to be a Director with effect from 30 April 2012.
The bonus of 100,000 was a one-off award reflecting his contribution to selling the Pharmacy business.
Richard Burrell ceased to be a Director on 15 March 2010.
During the financial year 2009 10 Richard Burrell was Chief Executive from 1 April 2009 until 15 March 2010 when Nigel Rawlings assumed the position.
The amounts above are therefore reflective of the relative lengths of service.
Percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executives pay including salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus with the wider employee population.
The Company considers the 34 full-time employee population, excluding the Executive Board, to be an appropriate comparator group: Taxable Bonus % Salary % benefits % increase increase increase decrease Chief Executive 1.5 26.7 24.6 Total employee pay 2.6 20.9 11.6 Average employee pay 4.1 51.0 27.9 Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders: 2014 15 2015 16 % Significant distributions m m change Overall spend on pay for employees including Executive Directors 3.0 3.3 10.0 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends 14.4 27.2 88.9 www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 83 Remuneration Report continued Payments to past Directors or for loss of office During the year there were no payments to past Directors, and no payments for loss of office.
Statement of shareholder voting The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2014 15 Directors Remuneration Report at the AGM held on 21 July 2015.
Votes 2015 AGM resolution Votes for % Votes against % withheld Annual Report on Remuneration 746,691,664 99.45 4,131,501 0.55 5,409,352 Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2016 17 Executive Directors Salary In setting salary levels for 2016 17 for the Executive Directors, the Committee considered a number of factors, including individual performance and experience, pay and conditions for employees across the Group, the general performance of the Company, pay levels in other comparable companies and the economic environment.
The salaries for 2016 17 and the relative increases are set out below: 2015 16 2016 17 salary salary Executive Director 000 000 % change Graham Roberts 322 326 1.5 Jonathan Murphy 215 235 9.3 As noted above, for 2016 17 Graham Roberts salary will be increased by 1.5% to 326,400, with Jonathan Murphys salary increased by 9.3% to 235,000.
Jonathans higher increase reflects the fact that, despite increases made over recent years, his salary remained significantly below the average commanded by similar post-holders.
The Committee is entirely comfortable that this increase is appropriate, given Jonathans continued strong performance, together with the fact that even his new salary remains in line only with lower quartile comparators, and is, therefore, consistent with the existing policy.
Pension and benefits As was the case last year, Graham Roberts and Jonathan Murphy will receive payments in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 20% and 13.5% of salary respectively.
Benefits will be provided in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 17 will be 100% of salary for Graham Roberts and if the new Policy is approved by shareholders 75% for Jonathan Murphy.
The performance objectives under the annual bonus plan for 2016 17 relate to value-added opportunities, within the portfolio and from market activity, financial targets and customer satisfaction.
The Committee is of the opinion that the precise performance targets for the bonus plan are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
Appropriate levels of disclosure of the actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance period so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs.
The Committee will also follow the same practice of previous years and view the weightings for bonus purposes at the end of the year, having regard to all known factors.
Noting best market practice, a deferred share element will be introduced into the annual bonus plan going forward, under which up to 50% of any bonus earned by an Executive Director will be deferred into shares for two years to the extent that the Executive Director does not already hold shares worth at least 300% of salary.
84 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Long-term incentives Subject to formal shareholder approval being obtained for the new PSP at the forthcoming AGM, the Committee intends to makethe first grant of awards under this new plan following the AGM.
It is currently intended that both Graham Roberts and Jonathan Murphy will be granted awards over shares worth 150% of salary which will vest subject to the extent to which the following performance conditions are satisfied: Absolute TSR growth: 50% of award Absolute average annual compound TSR growth over performance period Percentage of this portion of award that vests Below 5% 0% 5% 0% 15% 100% NAV per share growth including the value of dividends paid : 50% of award Absolute average annual compound NAV per share growth over performance period Percentage of this portion of award that vests Below 5% 0% 5% 0% 15% 100% Straight-line vesting would occur between each target.
Non-Executive Directors The following table sets out the fee rates for the non-Executive Directors from 1 April 2016: 2015 16 2016 17 000 000 % change Chairman fee 128.5 130.5 1.6 Non-Executive Director base fee 36.2 36.9 1.9 Additional fee for Chairmanship of Audit and Remuneration Committee 8.2 8.3 1.2 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 8.2 8.3 1.2 By order of the Board JENEFER GREENWOOD CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 17 May 2016 www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 85
