Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Our Remuneration Policy is designed to align management incentives with our strategy During the year we as the Committee have continued to focus on ensuring that our Remuneration Policy appropriately reflects our remuneration philosophy, which is based on three fundamental principles: remuneration should align management incentives with strategy and so encourage activities that support our strategy of creating Places People Prefer: remuneration packages should be designed to attract and retain expert people throughout British Lands business: and the level of remuneration should be directly linked to corporate and individual performance.
We were delighted to receive over 97% of shareholder votes in favour of our existing Remuneration Policy at our 2014 AGM.
As our Matching Share Plan MSP will expire in July 2016, we have taken the opportunity to review the current Remuneration Policy this year rather than at its expiry in 2017, with a particular focus on simplifying our long term incentive arrangements.
Taking into account investor sentiment around Lord Turnbull matching share plans, we have decided not to renew the MSP.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As a result we will have one single long term incentive arrangement under the proposed new Remuneration Policy.
Remuneration Committee members attendance 1 To achieve this we are proposing the following key changes to our during the year ended 31 March 2016 Remuneration Policy: removal of the MSP and amendments to the Lord Turnbull 3 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP which address the removal of the MSP Lynn Gladden 3 3 and respond to investor preferences for the introduction of post-vesting William Jackson 3 3 holding periods and the extension of time periods over which awards 2 Laura Wade-Gery 2 2 should be subject to clawback.
Proposed amendments are summarised in the box on the facing page.
Given the level of shareholder support received 1 Other individuals attend Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
for the existing Remuneration Policy in 2014, we are not proposing to make Alan Judes of Strategic Remuneration attended Committee meetings during any other material changes to our Remuneration Policy.
Alan Judes has been appointed by the Committee as its Independent Advisor: further detail is provided on page 110.
During the year, by the Committees invitation, the following senior executives attended and or were Consultation on proposed changes to Remuneration Policy present at Committee meetings other than when their own remuneration was We were pleased to be able to engage in meaningful discussion with being discussed : the Company Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Company key shareholders during consultation on the proposed amendments Secretary and General Counsel and the Head of Operations.
A number of opinions expressed during 2 Laura Wade-Gery was appointed as a Director and member of the consultation have directly influenced the design of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee on 13 May 2015.
Policy that will be presented for approval at our AGM in July 2016.
1.2 Our proposals to move to a single long term incentive arrangement, introduce a two year holding period following LTIP vesting and maintain Terms of Reference the compulsory deferral of a proportion of an Annual Incentive award into shares were particularly well received by investors and have been The Committees Terms of Reference, can be found on the Companys incorporated into the new Remuneration Policy.
com committees D. 2.1 D. 2.2 In response to feedback received during consultation, we are also this year providing more information about performance against Annual Incentive measures over the financial year included on pages 102 to 103 of this Report and we are reducing the percentage of LTIP that vests for achieving median performance under the new Policy.
86 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Design of new Remuneration Policy Element of remuneration Change in Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the design of our new Matching Share Plan No MSP will be included in the Policy presented Remuneration Policy remains aligned with our remuneration philosophy.
MSP for shareholder approval at the AGM in July 2016.
The elements of our remuneration structure have been chosen so that Under the current Policy one third of an Executive they support our business model and our four areas of strategic focus: Directors post-tax Annual Incentive award is deferred and used to purchase shares MSP Customer Orientation, Right Places, Capital Efficiency and Expert Bonus Shares that must be held for three years People.
Performance measures attached to variable elements of and a conditional award of additional matching remuneration are stretching, with Annual Incentive starting to be shares is granted.
awarded and LTIP awards starting to vest only once median performance has been reached: maximum levels of remuneration are only paid out Annual Incentive The deferral of one third of the post-tax Annual when upper quartile performance is achieved.
Both short term Annual Deferral Incentive into shares will be retained, but no award of additional matching shares will be Incentive and long term LTIP performance measures have been granted.
This will result in continued alignment carefully selected to incentivise activities that support our strategy of between Executive Directors and shareholders creating Places People Prefer.
The measures that will be attached to interests and will provide a longer term aspect awards granted under the amended LTIP and their respective links to to the Annual Incentive award.
One third of an Executive Directors post-tax Annual Incentive our strategy are summarised in the box on the next page.
Page 21 of our award will be deferred and used to purchase Strategic Report highlights the relationship between our strategy and Annual Incentive Shares that must be held our incentive measures.
for three years, regardless of whether or not the individual remains an employee of British Land throughout this period.
Annual Our new Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders for Incentive Shares will be subject to clawback approval at the AGM in July 2016.
Shareholders will also be asked to during the holding period.
vote on separate resolutions to approve the amendments to the LTIP D. 2.4 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year Long-Term Incentive For Executive Directors a two year holding period ended 31 March 2016.
If approved, our new Remuneration Policy will Plan LTIP will be introduced following vesting of an LTIP apply from the date of the AGM and will consist of the following key award, during which awards will be subject to clawback.
The holding period will apply elements for Executive Directors: regardless of whether or not the individual Basic salaries and benefits will be set by reference to comparator remains an employee of British Land throughout companies of a similar position in the FTSE 100 Index: this period.
The maximum award potential will be Annual Incentive awards will be linked to performance against increased from 200% to 300% of basic salary, as Executive Directors will no longer be eligible to quantitative, qualitative and personal measures and one third of receive additional matching share awards under each Annual Incentive award granted will be deferred to purchase the MSP.
The proportion of award vesting on British Land shares: and achievement of the median level of performance LTIP awards will be linked to both specific property related performance will be reduced from 25% to 20% of the award.
The performance conditions attached to LTIP measures TPR and TAR, assessing performance at the gross and net awards will be amended as detailed in the box levels respectively and TSR performance measures, and will be subject on the next page.
to a two year holding period following the three year vesting period.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors will receive an annual The Executive Directors are responsible for setting the levels of fees paid Directors Fees fee, with additional fees if they are members of to the Non-Executive Directors.
In line with other FTSE 100 companies, Board Committees or hold the position of Senior it is proposed that under the new Remuneration Policy fees payable Independent Director or Chairman of the Audit or Remuneration Committee.
This replaces the to Non-Executive Directors will be structured as an annual fee, plus current fee structure which is based in part additional fees for membership of committees and or holding certain on meeting attendance.
positions, as outlined in the box to the right.
This represents a change from the structure under the current Policy whereby Non-Executive Directors receive fees based in part on their attendance at Board and Committee meetings throughout the year.
Levels of fees under the new Policy outlined on page 100 have been selected so that total fees for the year commencing 1 April 2016 will not change materially compared to the fees that would have been received had the current Policy remained in place, based on the anticipated number of meetings that will take place during the year D. 2.3.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 Key activities of the Committee during the year British Land has had another active and successful year, demonstrated ended 31 March 2016: in our strong full year results.
Relative to the prior year, underlying profit Approval of the Remuneration Report presented for shareholder has increased by 16%, our NAV is 11% ahead and the dividend has approval at the AGM on 21 July 2015. increased by 2.5%.
The results were driven by good performances Development of Remuneration Policy to be presented for shareholder across the business with good leasing activity and rental growth key approval at the AGM on 19 July 2016 and preparation for consultations features.
The executive management team was strengthened through with key shareholders.
a number of key appointments including Roger Madelin, who has been Review of corporate and individual performances over the year ended hired to lead our important Canada Water project.
The receipt of the 31 March 2015. prestigious 2016 Queens Award for Enterprise is a great endorsement Approval of performance measures for the year ended 31 March 2016. of our economic, social and environmental achievements.
Review of: Chairmans annual fee: Performance during the year was in line with or exceeded expectations Chief Executives remuneration: on all but one of the Annual Incentive measures.
However, overall Executive Directors remuneration: and performance was less strong than performance in the previous financial Employees salaries and Annual Incentives.
Consequently Annual Incentives awarded to Executive Directors in Approval of discretionary share scheme grants and vestings.
respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 are lower than those awarded in Approval of all-employee share scheme grants.
respect of performance over the prior financial year.
The Remuneration Committees assessment of Annual Incentive performance over the year is set out on pages 102 to 103 of this Report.
LTIP performance measures The following performance measures will apply to LTIP awards granted under the new Remuneration Policy: Measure Link to strategy Measured relative to Total Property Return TPR The change in capital value, less any capital The TPR measure is designed to link reward to TPR performance will be assessed against expenditure incurred, plus net income.
TPR is strong performance at the gross property level.
the performance of an IPD benchmark.
expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the LTIP performance period and is calculated by Investment Property Databank IPD.
Total Accounting Return TAR The growth in British Lands EPRA NAV per The TAR measure is designed to link reward TAR will be measured relative to a comparator share plus dividends per share paid over the to performance at the net property level that group consisting of the 17 largest FTSE property LTIP performance period.
takes account of gearing and our distributions companies that use EPRA accounting including to shareholders.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The growth in value of a British Land The TSR measure is designed to directly 50% of the TSR measure will be measured shareholding over the LTIP performance correlate reward with the return delivered relative to the performance of the FTSE 100 period, assuming dividends are reinvested to shareholders.
and 50% of the TSR measure will be measured to purchase additional shares.
relative to the performance of a comparator group consisting of the 17 largest FTSE property companies that use EPRA accounting including British Land.
Performance against the LTIP measures will be assessed over a period of three years.
For each measure, 100% of the part of the award attached to that measure will vest if British Lands performance is at the upper quartile level.
If performance against a measure is equal to the median, 20% of the part of the award attached to that measure will vest and if performance is below median the part of the award attached to that measure will lapse.
There will be straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile performance for each measure.
88 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Vesting of the MSP and LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors in This is my last report as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as 2013 is dependent on British Lands performance over the three year I intend to stand down following British Lands Annual General Meeting period ended 31 March 2016.
Vesting of these awards is scheduled to in July 2016.
I will remain a member of the Committee and look forward take place in August 2016 and estimated vesting values are included in to continuing to work with William Jackson, who will take over the the Executive Directors single total figures of remuneration on page 101.
Committee Chairmanship, as well as Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery, Performance measures attached to the MSP award measure growth in who were both appointed Committee members in 2015. gross income and total shareholder return TSR.
Half of the MSP award is expected to vest, as the gross income growth target has been fully The Committee very much valued your support of our Remuneration achieved, however the remaining half of the MSP award will lapse, as Policy when it was introduced in 2014.
We hope that you will be British Lands TSR over the period was below the median TSR of the supportive of the proposed changes to our long term incentive comparator group of companies.
arrangements set out in our new Remuneration Policy and supportive of our Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2016, The two performance measures attached to the vesting LTIP award at the AGM in July 2016. measure total property return TPR and total accounting return TAR.
The TPR part of the award is expected to vest at 69%, reflecting partial achievement of this condition, and the TAR part is estimated to vest at 44%, again showing that the performance condition has been met in part but upper quartile performance required for the full award to vest has not been achieved.
Lord Turnbull Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors single total figures of remuneration for the year to 31 March 2016 have decreased relative to the figures for the previous financial year, reflecting the partial vesting of long term incentive awards and reduced Annual Incentive awards compared to the prior year.
The Committee believes this demonstrates that our Remuneration Policy is designed so that the third strand of our remuneration philosophy, the level of remuneration received should be directly linked to corporate and individual performance, is properly reflected in the Policy.
Remuneration in respect of the year commencing 1 April 2016 The Committee is satisfied that the Executive Directors salaries and the Chairmans annual fee remain correctly positioned in relation to our comparator group being FTSE 100 companies of a similar market capitalisation to British Land and these will not be increased for the year commencing 1 April 2016.
As explained earlier in this letter, a new Remuneration Policy and amended LTIP rules will be presented for shareholder approval at the AGM in July 2016.
The Committee intends to grant the final LTIP award under the current Remuneration Policy and rules before the AGM, therefore the first LTIP award under the new Policy and amended rules will not be granted until the year commencing 1 April 2017.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: OVERVIEW OF REMUNERATION POLICY Overview of Remuneration Policy Having expert people is one of the four core focus areas of our business For the maximum level of performance, the Annual Incentive award model.
Our Remuneration Policy is intended to help retain the expert will be granted at a level equivalent to 150% of basic salary and the LTIP people we have recruited and developed and mitigate the risk of losing award is expected to vest in full equivalent to 300% of basic salary.
Our Remuneration Policy is also designed to foster employee share third of the Annual Incentive award granted will be deferred into Annual ownership and align Executive Directors interests with those of investors.
Remuneration payable in respect of this maximum level The Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 92 to 98 will take effect from of performance has not changed materially compared to that payable 19 July 2016, subject to shareholder approval at British Lands Annual under the current Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in 2014.
General Meeting on that day.
The bar charts below illustrate the levels of remuneration receivable by the Executive Directors under this proposed The illustrative bar charts below do not take into account any share Remuneration Policy for varying levels of performance.
price appreciation between grant and vesting of LTIP awards or between deferral and release of Annual Incentive Shares.
Share price growth will Within the remuneration package, variable elements the Annual result in the values of LTIP awards and Annual Incentive Shares increasing Incentive and Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP are designed to reward in the period between grant and vesting release to the Director.
performance that supports our strategy and creates sustainable long term value for shareholders.
If only the minimum level of performance is As explained on page 89, the first LTIP award grant under the new Policy achieved, only fixed remuneration elements will be paid to the Directors.
with maximum level equivalent to 300% basic salary will not take place In the illustrative bar charts, this minimum remuneration consists of until the year ending 31 March 2018, as it is intended that an LTIP award basic salary, benefits, pension or pension allowance and shares awarded will be granted under the existing Policy with maximum level equivalent 1 by British Land under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
to 200% basic salary in advance of the 2016 AGM.
For performance that is in line with expectations, up to half of the 1 Calculated using salaries for the year ending 31 March 2017, assuming that maximum Annual Incentive award possible will be granted equivalent benefit values for the year ending 31 March 2017 will remain the same as the to 75% of basic salary and the proportion of the LTIP award expected values for the year ended 31 March 2016 and that the maximum value of shares to vest is equivalent to 140% of basic salary.
One third of the Annual that can be awarded by the Company under the Share Incentive Plan is granted.
Incentive award granted will be deferred into shares which must be Pension values are based on the Remuneration Policy and estimates supplied held by the Executive Director for three years Annual Incentive Shares.
by the scheme actuary for defined benefit scheme members.
Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy Chris Grigg Charles Maudsley Chief Executive 000 Head of Retail and Leisure 000 Minimum 100% 1,187 Minimum 100% 553 In line with In line with 40% 21% 39% 2,993 37% 22% 41% 1,512 expectations expectations Maximum 24% 25% 51% 4,967 Maximum 22% 26% 52% 2,561 Lucinda Bell Tim Roberts Chief Financial Officer 000 Head of Offices and Residential 000 Minimum 100% 609 Minimum 100% 572 In line with In line with 37% 22% 41% 1,669 37% 22% 41% 1,531 expectations expectations Maximum 22% 26% 52% 2,828 Maximum 22% 26% 52% 2,580 Fixed remuneration Annual Incentive Long Term Incentive 90 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Directors Fixed Remuneration Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The components of fixed remuneration are intended to provide a base The LTIP is the second element of variable remuneration.
The proportion package at a level that will attract high-calibre individuals, with the of an LTIP award that is actually released to an Executive Director is appropriate degree of expertise and experience to carry out their roles dependent on British Lands performance against specified performance to the high standards we require.
Executive Directors salaries are measures over a three year period.
positioned around the median of our comparator group FTSE100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations to British Land LTIP award consists of performance shares and, in addition to salary, the fixed remuneration package includes the or market value options or a combination of the two, provision of benefits, a pension or pension allowance and the opportunity with performance measures attached to take part in all-employee share schemes.
Performance is measured over three years Annual Incentive The number of performance shares vesting and the number of options becoming exercisable are both dependent on the degree The Annual Incentive forms part of the variable proportion of an to which the performance measures have been met Executive Directors remuneration package.
The level of Annual Incentive award received is directly linked to corporate and individual performance against annually tailored measures.
A two year holding period applies to LTIP awards following vesting A proportion of each Executive Directors Annual Incentive award is used to purchase shares that must be held for three years, adding a longer term aspect to the Annual Incentive award.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees paid to the Company Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are positioned around the median of our comparator group of companies Magnitude of Annual Incentive award is dependent on performance FTSE100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations to against Annual Incentive measures over one year British Land with the aim of attracting individuals with the appropriate degree of expertise and experience to work with and challenge the Executive Directors.
One third net of tax is used Two thirds is paid as to purchase shares, which must cash on award be held for three years Annual Incentive Shares British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: REMUNERATION POLICY Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Component and Purpose Operation Fixed Remuneration Basic salary The level of basic salary is positioned around the median of our comparator group of FTSE 100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations.
Executive Directors responsibilities To attract and retain expert people are taken into account when basic salaries are set.
with the appropriate degree of expertise and experience.
Basic salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, with increases usually taking effect on 1 April for the subsequent year.
Employment conditions and salary increases throughout the Group are taken into account when basic salaries are set.
In addition to basic salary, Executive Directors may be eligible to receive fees for sitting on the boards of certain subsidiary companies.
A car allowance is paid to Executive Directors in lieu of the provision of a company car.
Benefits and all-employee share schemes Executive Directors are eligible to receive other taxable and non-taxable benefits, which To attract and retain may include: expert people and to private medical insurance covering the Director, spouse and any children under the age of 25 : foster share ownership.
life assurance cover, under which a lump sum of four times basic salary will be paid out in the event of death in service: permanent health insurance, under which 75% of basic salary will be paid in the event of long term absence due to certain medical reasons: access to independent actuarial, financial and legal advice when necessary: gym membership, subsidised by the Company: annual medical checks: relevant professional subscription fees: other benefits on substantially the same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in British Lands Share Incentive Plan SIP and Sharesave Scheme on the same basis as other eligible employees.
The Company provides Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and may provide an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act.
Executive Directors may receive pension benefits through a defined contribution Pension or pension allowance arrangement, may receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions or provided the To attract and retain expert people Director joined British Land before its defined benefit scheme closed to new members in and to provide an appropriate level 2006 may receive benefits through a defined benefit arrangement, as deemed appropriate of pension onretirement.
Accrual rates for Directors receiving benefits through the defined benefit scheme are determined by the rules of the scheme and are dependent on the age at which the Director joined the Company.
Benefits up to the limit permitted by the tax legislation are provided in a registered plan.
Benefits over that limit are currently provided in an employer financed retirement benefit scheme EFRBS.
EFRBS participants are currently offered a choice annually as to whether they wish to accrue benefits in the EFRBS or to receive a cash payment in lieu.
Directors participating in a defined contribution arrangement may choose whether contributions are made into British Lands defined contribution scheme or into their own personal pension plan.
Cash allowances in lieu of pension contributions would typically be paid at the same level of salary as Company contributions under the defined contribution arrangement.
92 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions The maximum level of basic salary will not be greater than the upper Not applicable.
quartile of the comparator group.
Increases will typically be in line with inflation and general salary increases throughout the Group.
If an individual is appointed at a salary positioned below the level aligned with our comparator group, a larger increase may be awarded in order to position the salary around the median of our comparator group.
Executive Directors fees for sitting on subsidiary company boards are capped at a maximum of 1,500 per annum in aggregate for all qualifying appointments.
The maximum car allowance is 20,000 per annum.
The maximum cost of other taxable and non-taxable benefits permitted under the Policy is the amount required to continue providing benefits at a similar level year-on-year.
The maximum opportunities under the SIP and Sharesave Scheme are set by the rules of the schemes and determined by statutory limits.
Under the defined benefit scheme the target benefit is the pension Not applicable.
that can be provided by the 31 March 2012 lifetime allowance 1.8 million, uplifted by RPI from that date.
The maximum accrual rate for a defined benefit scheme member is that which will give the target benefit at age 60, subject to the accrual rate being no greater than one thirtieth and no less than one sixtieth of salary.
Employer pension contributions to Executive Directors under the defined contribution arrangement and cash allowances in lieu of pension are made at a fixed percentage of salary, between 15% and 35%.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Component and Purpose Operation Annual Incentive Annual Incentive awards may be granted to Executive Directors each year, with the level of To reward Company and individual award reflecting Company and individual performance against measures set by the performance that supports the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are granted following the financial year end, when actual strategic priorities of the business performance over that year has been measured.
and to promote activities that help the business successfully Two thirds of an Executive Directors Annual Incentive award is paid in cash when the award is granted.
The remaining third of the Annual Incentive award net of tax is used to purchase implement its strategy.
British Land shares on behalf of the Executive Director Annual Incentive Shares.
Annual Incentive Shares must be held for three years from the date of grant of the Annual Incentive To foster share ownership and align award before they may be transferred or sold, regardless of whether or not the individual participants interests with those of remains an employee of British Land throughout this period.
Executive Directors are entitled shareholders.
to the dividends paid in respect of the Annual Incentive Shares during the holding period.
The Annual Incentive Shares may be clawed back during the three year period following issue, if it is discovered that the relevant Annual Incentive award was granted on the basis of materially misstated accounts or other data.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP awards may be granted annually by the Remuneration Committee to Executive Directors.
To link the level of reward to Awards may consist of performance shares conditional rights to receive shares or market Company performance against value options or a combination of the two.
Executive Directors may indicate a preference as to specified long term measures, the proportions of their award received as performance shares and or market value options.
promoting and rewarding activities that support our strategy and create LTIP awards vest after three years.
The number of performance shares and or options vesting is dependent on the degree to which performance conditions attached to the LTIP award have sustainable long term value for been met over this three year performance period.
A payment equivalent to the dividends shareholders.
accrued on vesting performance shares and the interest thereon is paid at the point of vesting.
To foster share ownership and align On vesting sufficient performance shares may be sold to cover any liability to income tax and participants interests with those of National Insurance Contributions.
The remaining performance shares must be held for two years following vesting before they are permitted to be transferred or sold, regardless of shareholders.
whether or not the individual remains an employee of British Land throughout this period.
LTIP options may be exercised at any point during the seven years following vesting.
If LTIP options are exercised within two years of the vesting date, sufficient of the shares acquired may be sold to cover the cost of exercise and any liability to income tax and National Insurance Contributions, but the remaining shares must be held until the point two years from the vesting date before they are permitted to be transferred or sold, regardless of whether or not the individual remains an employee of British Land throughout this period.
If it is discovered that an LTIP award was granted or vested on the basis of materially misstated accounts or other data: the Committee may require some or all of the performance shares to be forfeited or clawed back during the five year period following the grant date: the Committee may require some or all unexercised options to be forfeited at any point: and where an option is exercised within five years of its grant date, the Committee may require some or all of the shares acquired to be clawed back during the five year period following the option grant date.
94 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions The maximum level of Annual Incentive which may be granted The Annual Incentive performance measures relate to British Lands is equivalent to 150% of basic salary.
strategic focus areas and the Executive Directors individual areas of responsibility.
The measures are set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the financial year over which performance will be assessed and are not strictly weighted.
When determining the level of an Executive Directors Annual Incentive award the Committee takes into account performance against all measures and makes an assessment in the round.
If actual performance averaged over all measures is equal to the median level of performance, the Annual Incentive award granted will be one quarter of the maximum potential award equivalent to 37.5% of basic salary.
Up to half of the maximum potential award equivalent to 75% of basic salary is payable for performance that is in line with expectations.
If average performance is below the median level of performance, no Annual Incentive award will be granted.
No further performance conditions are attached to the Annual Incentive Shares during the holding period.
The maximum value of an LTIP award which may be granted is The LTIP performance conditions have been chosen to reward equivalent to 300% of basic salary.
The value for this purpose performance that is aligned with British Lands strategy: is the aggregate fair value of the shares and or options granted, total property return TPR performance is assessed relative at the date of award.
to an Investment Property Databank IPD benchmark, rewarding strong returns at the property level: The fair value of a share is the average market value of British Land total accounting return TAR performance is assessed relative shares over the three dealing days preceding grant.
The fair value of to a comparator group consisting of the 17 largest property a market value option is such fraction of the fair value of a share as is companies within the FTSE that use EPRA accounting including set by the Committee.
This fraction is currently one quarter but may British Land : and be varied by the Committee to reflect the economic models used by total shareholder return TSR performance is assessed against both the Company for the valuation of options.
the FTSE100 and a comparator group consisting of the 17largest property companies within the FTSE that use EPRA accounting including British Land.
The relative weighting of the performance conditions may be varied by the Committee to ensure the LTIP best supports British Lands strategy and to meet investor preferences.
The Committee currently intends to apply the performance conditions with the following weightings: 40% of the award will be linked to the TPR condition, 40% will be linked to the TAR condition and 20% will be linked to the TSR condition.
TPR performance is currently assessed against the IPD UK Annual Property Index.
The Committee may amend the comparator groups of companies during the performance period if there is a corporate event affecting any member of the group and may amend the IPD benchmark if a different benchmark is deemed more appropriate.
Performance conditions are challenging, requiring significant outperformance for 100% of the LTIP award to vest.
20% of the award will vest if the minimum performance threshold is achieved: performance below the minimum threshold for a performance condition will result in the LTIP award in respect of that condition lapsing.
Upper quartile performance must be achieved against each performance measure for the entire award to vest.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Component and Purpose Operation Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions Chairmans fee The Chairmans annual fee The maximum annual fee Not applicable.
To attract and retain an individual is set by the Remuneration Committee will not be greater than the with the appropriate degree and reviewed annually.
The level of the upper quartile of the chosen of expertise and experience.
Chairmans annual fee is positioned comparator group.
Typically around the median of our chosen increases, if required, comparator group, which consists will be in line with inflation.
of FTSE 100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations.
Chairmans benefits The Chairman is provided with a car The maximum opportunity Not applicable.
To facilitate the Chairmans and chauffeur, together with any taxes is the cost to the Company travel in the fulfilment of his thereon.
of providing this grossed-up or her duties.
taxable benefit at a similar level each year.
Non-Executive Directors fees Remuneration of the Non-Executive The maximum aggregate Not applicable.
To attract and retain expert Directors is a matter for the Executive amount of basic fees payable people with the appropriate Directors, and fees are reviewed to all Non-Executive Directors degree of expertise and annually.
shall not exceed the 600,000 experience.
limit set in the Companys Non-Executive Directors receive an Articles of Association.
annual fee plus additional fees if they are members of a Committee or if they hold the position of Senior Independent Director or Chairman of the Remuneration or Audit Committee.
The Companys Policy is to deliver a total fee at a level in line with similar positions at our chosen comparator group, which consists of FTSE 100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations.
Other arrangements for The Company may reimburse The maximum reimbursement Not applicable.
the Chairman and the expenses reasonably incurred by is expenses reasonably Non-Executive Directors the Chairman and the Non-Executive incurred, together with any To support the Directors in Directors in fulfilment of the taxes thereon.
the fulfilment of their duties.
Companys business, together with any taxes thereon.
The maximum value of the Directors and Officers Liability The Company provides the Chairman Insurance and the Companys and the Non-Executive Directors with indemnity is the cost at the Directors and Officers Liability relevant time.
Insurance and may provide an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act.
96 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the Remuneration Policy table Where a recruit is forfeiting incentive awards granted by his or her existing employer, compensation in the form of a Restricted Share Plan RSP Remuneration Policy for other employees award may be made in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2, the maximum Salary reviews across the Group are carried out on the same basis value of which will be that which the Committee, in its reasonable opinion, as salary reviews for the Executive Directors: consideration is given considers to be equal to the value of the awards which have lapsed.
to the individuals role, duties, experience and performance, along The value of dividends paid on the RSP shares during the vesting period with consideration of typical salary levels of employees in similar is paid directly to the Director.
Vesting of the shares granted under the roles in comparable companies, where the data is available.
Employees RSP award will be subject to the Director completing a minimum period are entitled to taxable and non-taxable benefits, with executives being of qualifying service, so the award will not be released until this condition entitled to substantially the same benefits as the Executive Directors.
The vesting of the RSP award may be subject to additional performance measures being met over the same period: All employees are eligible to receive an Annual Incentive, the level of the Committee will determine the most relevant measures to use at which will be dependent on individual, departmental and Company the time of award, bearing in mind the responsibilities of the individual performance.
A proportion of a senior executives Annual Incentive being appointed and the Companys strategic priorities at the time.
award may be deferred to purchase Annual Incentive Shares.
Executives may be granted Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
Some executives The Committee may choose to offer a Co-Investment Share Plan CIP not including Executive Directors are eligible to receive shares under award to a new Executive Director on recruitment in accordance with the Fund Managers Performance Plan FMPP.
The final FMPP award Listing Rule 9.4.
2, to assist the Director in building a holding of British was granted in 2013 and the final FMPP vesting will take place in 2016.
Land shares with the aim of further aligning the Directors personal Employees joining the company after 2006 are eligible to take part in a interests with those of British Lands shareholders.
The Companys all-employee share schemes the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme Under the CIP a director may invest a maximum of 150% salary are also open to eligible employees.
225% salary for a Chief Executive to purchase British Land shares, these limits being determined by the Directors minimum shareholding Pre-existing obligations and commitments guideline.
The Company will match the purchased CIP shares on a It is a provision of this Policy that the Company can honour all 1:1 basis before allowing for tax liabilities that will arise on vesting of pre-existing obligations and commitments that were entered into prior to the matching shares.
All the CIP shares are then deferred for three this Remuneration Policy taking effect.
The terms of those pre-existing years, subject to the Director remaining employed by the Group and obligations and commitments may differ from the terms of the Remuneration holding the shares for this time.
Should the Director leave the Group Policy and may include without limitation obligations and commitments before the qualifying period is completed, all of the matching shares under service contracts, long term incentive schemes including previous will lapse and the purchased shares will be released to the Director.
Long-Term Incentive Plans and the Matching Share Plan, pension and Dividends paid on the purchased CIP shares during the vesting period benefit plans.
are paid directly to the Director: a dividend equivalent payment is made on vesting to compensate for dividends accrued on matching CIP shares.
Considerations when setting Remuneration Policy The Committee will impose performance measures on CIP awards, In drawing up the Remuneration Policy, the Committee took into which must be achieved over the three-year holding period for the account views expressed by shareholders during meetings and matching shares to vest.
The Committee will determine the most communicated to the Company.
The Company engaged with its relevant measures to use at the time of award, bearing in mind the shareholders via consultation meetings with investor bodies, responsibilities of the individual being appointed and the Companys and by writing to its largest shareholders, offering each a meeting strategic priorities at the time.
The Companys Policy is to give notice periods of no longer than Each year the Remuneration Committee takes into account the pay and 12 months.
However, when recruiting an external candidate it may employment conditions of employees in the Group, noting the general be necessary to give an initial notice period of up to 24 months: this increase in salary proposed for all employees and levels of incentive reduces at the end of 12 months work to 12 months.
The remainder payments and performance, before setting the remuneration of the of the package offered to a new Executive Director would be in line Directors.
The Committee did not consult with the Companys employees with the Companys ongoing Remuneration Policy.
or use remuneration comparison measurements when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors On recruitment, the Chairman will be offered an annual fee and benefits Approach to recruitment remuneration in accordance with the Policy.
The level of the annual fee may initially Executive Directors be positioned below the median of the chosen comparator group, with Basic salary is set at a level appropriate to recruit a suitable candidate, the intention of increasing it to around the median of the comparator taking into account external market competitiveness and internal equity.
group after an initial period of satisfactory service.
Non-Executive The level of basic salary may initially be positioned below the median Directors will be offered Non-Executive Directors fees in accordance of the chosen comparator group, with the intention of increasing it to with the Policy.
around the median of the comparator group after an initial period of satisfactory service.
Appointment of internal candidates If an existing employee of the Group is appointed as an Executive Director, Chairman or Non-Executive Director, any obligation or commitment entered into with that individual prior to his or her appointment can be honoured in accordance with the terms of those obligations or commitments, even where they differ from the terms of the Policy.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Policy on loss of office Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are subject The Executive Directors service contracts can be lawfully terminated by to renewal on a triennial basis.
In accordance with the UK Corporate either party giving 12 months notice, or by the Company making a lump Governance Code, all Directors stand for election or re-election by sum payment in lieu of notice PILON equal to the Executive Directors the Companys shareholders on an annual basis.
The Directors service base salary for the notice period.
Additionally, when the Company makes contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection during a PILON, it may either pay a lump sum equal to the value of any benefits normal business hours at the Companys registered office and at the for the notice period or continue to provide benefits until the notice period Annual General Meeting.
The unexpired terms of the Chairmans and expires or the Executive Director starts new employment whichever Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are shown below: is the earlier.
These lawful termination mechanisms do not prevent Unexpired term of the Company, in appropriate circumstances, from terminating an Date of current appointment at Executive Directors employment in breach of his or her service Director appointment 31 March 2016 contract and seeking to apply mitigation in determining the damages John Gildersleeve Chairman 01 01 2016 33 months payable.
Where this is achievable in negotiation with the outgoing Director, settlement arrangements are structured so that the Aubrey Adams 01 09 2014 17 months termination payment is paid in instalments and the instalments Simon Borrows 17 03 2014 11 months are reduced by an amount equal to any earnings received from the outgoing Directors new employment, consultancy or other paid work.
Lynn Gladden 20 03 2015 23 months William Jackson 11 04 2014 12 months For departing Executive Directors and Executive Directors that have left British Land the Committee may agree to cash commutation of pension Tim Score 20 03 2014 11 months benefits under the defined benefit scheme including EFRBS benefits Lord Turnbull 01 04 2015 24 months and other pension arrangements entered into prior to the adoption of the 2014 Remuneration Policy.
Any commutation would take into account Laura Wade-Gery 13 05 2015 25 months valuations provided by independent actuarial advisors so as to be undertaken on a basis considered by the Committee to be cost neutral Although the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors appointments to the Company.
are for fixed terms, their appointments may be terminated immediately without notice if they are not reappointed by shareholders or if they are The circumstances of the loss of office dictate whether the individual is removed from the Board under the Companys Articles of Association treated as a good leaver or otherwise, in accordance with the Companys or if they resign and do not offer themselves for re-election.
The Remuneration Committee uses its discretion to form a view their appointments may be terminated by either the individual or the taking into account the circumstances.
Good leavers typically receive Company giving three months written notice of termination or, for pro-rata Annual Incentive and long term incentive awards, subject to the Chairman, six months written notice of termination.
Despite these performance measurement, and other leavers forfeit their entitlements.
terms of appointment, neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive In the event of a change of control the rules of the share plans generally Directors are entitled to any compensation other than accrued and provide for accelerated vesting of awards, subject where applicable unpaid fees and expenses for the period up to the termination for loss to time apportionment and achievement of performance targets.
All of of office for any reason.
the Companys Executive Directors have contracts that pre-date 27 June 2012 but these do not contain contractual provisions that could impact on the amount of any payment for loss of office and which fall outside the Policy.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and notice periods are given in the table below D. 1.5 : Normal Normal notice notice Length Date of period to period to of service service be given by be given by Director contract contract Company Director Chris Grigg 12 mths 19.12.08 12 mths 12 mths Lucinda Bell 12 mths 10.03.11 12 mths 12 mths Charles Maudsley 12 mths 03.11.09 12 mths 12 mths Tim Roberts 12 mths 14.11.06 12 mths 12 mths The Company may terminate a Directors appointment with immediate effect without notice or payment in lieu of notice under certain circumstances, prescribed within the Directors service contract.
98 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION How we intend to apply our Remuneration Policy during the year commencing 1 April 2016 Pages 99 to 100 detail how the Remuneration Committee intends to apply Long term incentive awards the Remuneration Policy during the coming year.
Matching Share Plan MSP Executive Directors Remuneration Under the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 available on pages 84 to 91 of British Lands 2014 Annual Report, one third of each Executive Directors Annual Basic salaries Incentive award must be deferred and used to purchase MSP Bonus Shares.
Therefore the Annual Incentive awards that are due to be paid to Basic salaries have been set at the following levels for the year Executive Directors in June 2016, in respect of performance during the commencing 1 April 2016.
Salaries have not been changed relative year ended 31 March 2016, will be subject to such a deferral and an to the prior year.
associated award of MSP Matching Shares will be granted.
This will be the final MSP award granted to Executive Directors, as the Remuneration Director Basic salary Policy that will be presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM in Chris Grigg 840,000 July 2016 detailed on pages 90 to 98 of this Report does not include a Lucinda Bell 493,000 matching share plan.
Charles Maudsley 446,250 Two equally weighted performance measures will be applied to MSP Tim Roberts 446,250 Matching Share awards: each measure relates to half of the total MSP award meaning no more than half of the total award can vest if one of the performance measures does not meet its minimum vesting threshold.
Annual Incentive awards The total shareholder return TSR part During the year Annual Incentive performance will be assessed against The comparator group against which TSR performance will be a range of quantitative and qualitative measures: assessed over the three-year performance period consists of: Great Portland Estates plc, Hammerson plc, Intu Properties plc, Quantitative measures: Land Securities Group PLC, SEGRO plc, Big Yellow Group PLC, Property returns: Unlevered property capital returns relative to IPD Capital & Counties PLC, Derwent London plc, Grainger plc, and total property return relative to IPD: Hansteen Holdings plc, Helical Bar plc, LondonMetric Property plc, Accounting returns: Total accounting return relative to property majors: St. Modwen Properties PLC, Shaftesbury PLC, The UNITE Group plc, Rental growth: ERV growth relative to IPD: and UK Commercial Property Trust Ltd and British Land.
The percentage Underlying profit performance: Profit performance relative to budget.
of the part of the MSP Matching Award linked to TSR performance will be determined as follows: Qualitative measures supporting the four areas of our business model: Right Places: progress on key projects including developments and British Lands TSR relative to the comparator group Percentage of TSR part at the end of the performance period of award vesting % execution of targeted acquisitions and disposals: Customer Orientation: company reputation with all stakeholders Below median 0 and supporting the delivery of sustainability objectives: Median 25 Capital Efficiency: execution of debt financings and progress on strengthening the dividend: and Further vesting per each 1% TSR exceeds median Expert People: quality of people and management renewal.
to a maximum of 100% of TSR part of award 18.75 The Executive Directors individual performance will also be assessed against measures relating to their specific areas of responsibility that support the corporate measures, above.
Further information regarding the measures and the assessment of performance used to determine Executive Directors Annual Incentive awards for the year ending 31March 2017 will be disclosed in the 2017 Remuneration Report.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The gross income growth GIG part Total Accounting Return TAR British Lands gross income growth will be assessed relative to the British Lands TAR over the three-year performance period will be Investment Property Databank IPD Quarterly Universe the IPD assessed relative to the same comparator group of companies that Universe.
In order for the part of the MSP Matching Award linked to GIG performance will be assessed against under the MSP TSR measure.
performance to vest, British Lands GIG over the three-year performance The percentage of the TAR part of the LTIP award vesting will be period must be equal to that of the IPD Universe the Growth determined as follows: Requirement.
The percentage of the GIG part of the MSP Matching British Lands TAR relative to the comparator group Percentage of TAR part Award vesting will be determined as follows: at the end of the performance period of award vesting % British Lands GIG relative to the IPD Universe Percentage of GIG part Below median 0 at the end of the performance period of award vesting % Median 25 Below Growth Requirement 0 Upper quartile 100 Equal to Growth Requirement 25 Further vesting per each 0.5% per annum GIG There will be straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile exceeds the Growth Requirement to a maximum performance.
of 100% of GIG part of award 25 The performance measures that will apply to LTIP awards granted under Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP the new Remuneration Policy that will be presented for shareholder It is intended that the final LTIP grant under the Remuneration Policy approval at the AGM in July 2016 the first grant of which is not intended approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014 available on pages 84 to 91 to take place until the financial year ending 31 March 2018 are described of British Lands 2014 Annual Report will take place in June 2016.
As the on page 88. intention is to grant an LTIP award in advance of the new Remuneration Policy and amended LTIP rules being presented for shareholder approval Non-Executive Directors remuneration at the AGM in July 2016, no further LTIP award will be granted to The following fee structure will apply for the Chairmans and NonExecutive Directors during the year to 31 March 2017.
Therefore the first Executive Directors fees, subject to shareholder approval of our new LTIP award to Executive Directors under the new Policy, if approved, is Remuneration Policy at the AGM in July 2016.
This represents a change not intended to be granted until the financial year ending 31 March 2018. from the current structure under which Non-Executive Directors receive Two equally weighted performance measures will be applied to LTIP fees based in part on their attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
awards granted in the year ending 31 March 2017: each measure relates to half of the total LTIP award meaning no more than half of the total The Chairmans annual fee has not been changed relative to the prior award can vest if one of the performance measures does not meet its year.
It is intended that fees paid to the other Non-Executive Directors minimum vesting threshold.
in respect of service between 1 April 2016 and the 2016 AGM paid in accordance with the current Remuneration Policy, approved by The total property return TPR part shareholders in 2014 will be deducted from the annual fees set out British Lands TPR over the three-year performance period will be below, so that fees received in respect of the full year to 31 March 2017 assessed relative to the IPD UK Annual Property Index the IPD are in line with the structure set out below.
The percentage of the TPR part of the LTIP award vesting will be determined as follows: Chairmans annual fee 369,340 Non-Executive Directors annual fee 61,000 British Lands TPR relative to the IPD Benchmark Percentage of TPR part at the end of the performance period of award vesting % Senior Independent Directors annual fee 10,000 Below median 0 Audit Committee or Remuneration Committee Chairmans Median 25 annual fee 20,000 Upper quartile 100 Remuneration Committee or Audit Committee members annual fee 8,000 Nomination Committee members annual fee 4,000 100 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How we applied our Remuneration Policy during the year ended 31 March 2016 Single total gure of remuneration audited information The following tables detail all elements of remuneration receivable by British Lands Directors in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 and show comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The Company provides the tax gross up on subsidised gym membership and the figures included above are the grossed up values.
An adjustment has been made to the prior years corresponding amount to reflect the fact that gym membership benefits were not disclosed on a grossed up basis in that year.
2 Other items in the nature of remuneration include life assurance, permanent health insurance, annual medical check-ups, professional subscription fees, the value of shares awarded under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan and the notional gain on exercise for any Sharesave Scheme options that mature during the year.
3 Fees Taxable benefits Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 John Gildersleeve Chairman 369 352 60 60 429 412 Aubrey Adams 68 69 68 69 Simon Borrows 68 67 68 67 Lynn Gladden 67 1 1 68 1 4 Dido Harding n a 34 n a n a 34 William Jackson 70 66 70 66 Tim Score 88 73 1 89 73 Lord Turnbull 97 79 97 79 5 Laura Wade-Gery 44 n a n a 44 n a 3 Taxable benefits include the Chairmans chauffeur cost and expenses incurred by other Non-Executive Directors.
The Company provides the tax gross up on these benefits and the figures shown above are the grossed up values.
An adjustment has been made to the prior years corresponding amount to reflect the fact that chauffeur costs were not disclosed on a grossed up basis in that year.
4 Dido Harding resigned as a Director on 10 December 2014.
5 Laura Wade-Gery was appointed as a Director on 13 May 2015.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Notes to the single total gure of remuneration table Annual Incentive The level of Annual Incentive award is determined by the Remuneration Committee based on British Lands performance and each individual Executive Directors contribution during the year.
Annual Incentive measures are not strictly weighted and the Committee assesses performance in the round.
The Committees assessment for the year ended 31 March 2016 is set out below, undertaken with reference to performance against the following quantitative and qualitative measures using data available at the year end.
Range of Range of performance performance between between median and in line with in line with expectations expectations and maximum pay-out 1 100% pay-out 1 50% pay-out no increased 1 25% pay-out performance pay-out above no pay-out below in line with this maximum Quantitative Measures this median point expectations pay-out point Narrative description of performance against measures Capital growth of 6.8%, outperforming IPD by 50 bps: both Unlevered property capital return vs IPD Retail and Offices outperformed their sector indices.
Property Total property return of 11.3% performing in line with IPD, returns Total property returns although both Retail and Offices outperformed their sector vs IPD indices.
Total accounting return above the estimated median of the Accounting Total accounting return property majors at 15.8% when adjusted to reflect changes returns vs property majors to UK Commercial Stamp Duty as described opposite.
Lettings and renewals 6.8% ahead of ERV.
Leasing activity vs ERV Rental ERV growth of 5.3% outperforming IPD by 130 bps: growth ERV growth vs IPD both Retail and Offices outperformed their sector indices.
Underlying Profit growth of 16.0%: ahead of budget and above the Profit growth vs budget profit and property majors estimated median of the property majors.
performance Qualitative Measures In Offices, completed 5 Broadgate: planning achieved at 100 Liverpool Street, 1 Finsbury Avenue and Blossom Street: planning application submitted for 2 and 3 Finsbury Avenue.
Progress on key In Retail, completed Whiteley Phase 2: planning consent projects including received at Speke: planning application submitted for Right developments: and Eden Walk.
Places Execution of targeted Public consultation for development of 46-acre site at acquisitions and Canada Water.
disposals Continued repositioning of the portfolio with 1.3 billion of gross activity: acquisitions and investments balanced with disposals in line with plan.
Awarded the Queens Award for Enterprise, the UKs highest accolade for business success, for our continued economic, Company reputation social and environmental achievements over five years.
with all stakeholders: Strong progress on developing Places People Prefer.
Customer and Orientation Supporting delivery Customer satisfaction score maintained at 7.9 10. of sustainability Maintained inclusion in the four target ESG Indices: Dow Jones objectives Sustainability Indices World and Europe: FTSE4GOOD and GRESB Europe Sector Leader.
Full year dividend increased by 2.5 % to 28.36 pence per share.
Progress on 915 million refinancings executed including 350 million zero strengthening Capital coupon convertible bond.
the dividend: and Efficiency Execution of Finance costs reduced further: weighted average interest rate debt financings reduced 50 bps to 3.3%.
Retained One Star rating for employee satisfaction.
Expert Quality of people and Further strengthening of senior team with two external People management renewal Executive Committee appointments.
1 25% of the maximum level 37.5% of basic salary.
50% of the maximum level 75.0% of basic salary.
100% of the maximum level 150% of basic salary.
102 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The increase in UK Commercial Stamp Duty, which took effect on 17 March 2016, impacted the total accounting return TAR and IFRS profits of companies with a financial year end of 31 March 2016 but did not impact those with a financial year end of 31 December 2015.
The underlying profit figure, used to assess Annual Incentive performance, was not affected by the change to UK Commercial Stamp Duty.
So that the TAR performance of British Land for 2015 16 can be compared on a like-for-like basis with the other property majors an adjusted and audited figure for British Lands TAR, which excludes the impact of the UK Commercial Stamp Duty change, has been used to assess performance.
In assessing the performance of the comparator group for TAR and profit performance relative to property majors, analysts consensus before the impact of the UK Commercial Stamp Duty change has been used for one company with a March year end and reported data has been used for the December year end companies.
Over the year each Executive Directors individual performance was measured against objectives supporting the key areas of our business model: Right Places, Customer Orientation, Capital Efficiency and Expert People.
The Group does not disclose prospective and retrospective performance measures for individual performance beyond that disclosed above as the Directors consider this to be commercially sensitive: this information will not be disclosed at future dates for the same reason.
Taking into account corporate performance against the quantitative and qualitative measures over the year to 31 March 2016, as well as each Executive Directors individual performance, the Remuneration Committee set the Annual Incentive awards received by the Executive Directors at the following levels.
Proportion of maximum potential award granted Executive Director % Chris Grigg 67 Lucinda Bell 55 Charles Maudsley 61 Tim Roberts 60 The maximum Annual Incentive award achievable is equivalent to 150% base salary.
The Remuneration Committee set the aggregate Annual Incentive received by the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2016 at 62% of the maximum 93% of base salary, as compared with 87% of the maximum 130% of base salary for the year ended 31 March 2015.
One third of each Executive Directors Annual Incentive award will be deferred and used to purchase MSP Bonus Shares, subject to a three-year holding requirement, under British Lands Matching Share Plan MSP in accordance with the current Remuneration Policy.
No further performance measures apply to these deferred shares: the MSP is described on pages 99 to 100.
Long term incentives audited information Figures in the Long term incentives column are comprised of awards vesting under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Matching Share Plan MSP, including, where applicable, dividend equivalent payments on those vesting awards and interest accrued on those dividend equivalents.
The LTIP awards and MSP Matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2013 are included in the 2016 Long term incentives column.
Vesting of these awards is subject to performance over the three year period to 31 March 2016 against the relevant performance conditions, which are detailed on pages 99 to 100.
The estimated vesting values of these awards have been calculated using the average market value for a British Land share for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016 702.6 pence as the vesting share price.
LTIP Two equally weighted performance conditions are attached to the LTIP awards granted in 2013, measuring British Lands total property return TPR relative to the funds in the December IPD UK Annual Property Index the Index and total accounting return TAR relative to a comparator group of British Land and 16 other property companies.
These awards are due to vest on 5 August 2016.
The increase in UK Commercial Stamp Duty, which took effect on 17 March 2016, impacted British Lands TPR at 31 March 2016 but did not impact the Index.
So that the performance of the Company and the Index can be compared on the same basis, an adjusted and audited figure for British Lands TPR, excluding the impact of the UK Commercial Stamp Duty change, has been used to assess LTIP TPR performance.
This adjustment will not be required in future years because when determining LTIP vesting levels the impact of this UK Commercial Stamp Duty change will a already have been reflected in the TPR of the Company and the comparator group for awards granted in 2014 and 2015 and b be reflected in the start point for awards granted in 2016 and future years.
The TPR part is expected to vest at 69%, based on British Lands adjusted TPR of 14.9% compared to the Index median of 13.9%.
It is estimated that the TAR part will vest at 44%: the actual vesting rate of the TAR part will be calculated once results have been published by all of the companies within the comparator group.
This produces the estimated values on vesting set out in the table on the following page.
The actual vesting will be confirmed by the Committee and provided in the 2017 Remuneration Report.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Estimated Estimated dividend Award price Number of percentage of Estimated value of equivalent and exercise price performance Number of award vesting award on vesting interest Executive Director LTIP award date p shares awarded options awarded % 000 000 Chris Grigg 05 08 2013 601 266,222 57 1,057 125 Lucinda Bell 05 08 2013 601 116,056 154,742 57 549 55 Charles Maudsley 05 08 2013 601 141,430 57 561 67 Tim Roberts 05 08 2013 601 141,430 57 561 67 The LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2012 which vested on 14 September 2015 and are shown in the 2015 Long term incentives column were subject to a performance condition assessing the growth in British Lands net asset value relative to the increase in the capital growth component of the IPD UK Annual Property Index.
This condition is detailed on page 102 of the 2015 Annual Report.
The vesting values of these awards have now been calculated using the actual market value on the day vesting, replacing the estimated vesting values included in the prior years single total figure of remuneration table.
MSP Two equally weighted performance conditions are attached to the MSP Matching awards granted in 2013, measuring British Lands total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group of 17 property companies including British Land and British Lands gross income growth GIG relative to the IPD Quarterly Universe the Universe.
These awards are due to vest on 2 August 2016.
Aon Hewitt has confirmed that the TSR part of the award will lapse as British Lands TSR performance over the period was 38.0% compared to a median of 53.7% for the comparator group.
The GIG part is expected to vest at 100%, as British Lands annualised GIG over the period is expected to exceed the growth of the Universe by more than the upper hurdle of 1.5%.
This produces the estimated values on vesting set out below.
The actual vesting rate will be confirmed by the Committee and provided in the 2017 Remuneration Report.
Estimated Estimated Estimated Number of percentage of value of award dividend Matching Shares award vesting on vesting equivalent Executive Director MSP award date awarded % 000 000 Chris Grigg 02 08 2013 127,096 50 446 53 Lucinda Bell 02 08 2013 54,720 50 192 23 Charles Maudsley 02 08 2013 59,428 50 209 25 Tim Roberts 02 08 2013 59,428 50 209 25 The MSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2012 which vested on 7 September 2015 and are shown in the 2015 Long term incentives column were subject to the same performance conditions as the MSP awards granted in 2013.
Pension or pension allowance audited information The figures shown in the Pension column represent the differing pension arrangements of the Executive Directors.
During the year ended 31 March 2016 Chris Grigg received 35% basic salary as cash in lieu of pension and Charles Maudsley received 15% basic salary as cash in lieu of pension.
Lucinda Bell and Tim Roberts earned pension benefits in defined benefit schemes sponsored by the Company during the year.
The increase in value over the year of their respective pensions is shown in the single total figure of remuneration table and further detail is provided on page 105.
There are no additional benefits that will become receivable by a Director in the event that a Director retires early.
104 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Share scheme interests awarded during the year audited information Long-Term Incentive Plan The total fair value of each Executive Directors LTIP award for the year ended 31 March 2016 was equivalent to 200% of basic salary at grant.
At grant each Director can indicate a preference as to the proportion of the award that they wish to receive as performance shares and the proportion that they wish to receive as market value options.
The share price used to determine the face value of performance shares and the fair value of options and therefore the number of performance shares and market value options awarded is the average market value of the Companys shares over the three dealing days immediately prior to the day of award.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are detailed on page 100.
Number of Percentage vesting on Performance shares performance End of achievement of minimum shares Face value performance performance threshold Executive Director Grant date granted 000 period Vesting date % Chris Grigg 22 06 2015 154,949 1,260 31 03 2018 22 06 2018 25 Lucinda Bell 22 06 2015 121,254 986 31 03 2018 22 06 2018 25 Charles Maudsley 22 06 2015 109,756 892 31 03 2018 22 06 2018 25 Tim Roberts 22 06 2015 109,756 892 31 03 2018 22 06 2018 25 Percentage vesting on Options Number End of achievement of minimum of options Face value Fair value Exercise price performance performance threshold 1 Executive Director Grant date granted 000 000 p period Vesting date % Chris Grigg 22 06 2015 206,599 1,680 420 824.5 31 03 2018 22 06 2018 25 1 Options are currently valued at one quarter of the value of a performance share therefore the fair value of each option awarded is one quarter of the face value of the option.
Matching Share Plan The total face value of each Executive Directors MSP Matching Share award for the year ended 31 March 2016 was equal to two thirds of their Annual Incentive award in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015, equivalent to 91% basic salary at grant for Chris Grigg, 68% for Lucinda Bell, 81% for Charles Maudsley and 85% for Tim Roberts.
The share price used to determine the number of Matching Shares awarded is the market value of the Companys shares on the day the proportion of the Annual Incentive is deferred.
Number of Percentage vesting on Matching Shares Matching End of achievement of minimum Shares Face value performance performance threshold Executive Director Grant date granted 000 period Vesting date % Chris Grigg 29 06 2015 94,348 768 31 03 2018 29 06 2018 25 Lucinda Bell 29 06 2015 40,950 333 31 03 2018 29 06 2018 25 Charles Maudsley 29 06 2015 44,226 360 31 03 2018 29 06 2018 25 Tim Roberts 29 06 2015 46,682 380 31 03 2018 29 06 2018 25 Sharesave Scheme The following options were granted to the Executive Directors during the year under the all-employee Sharesave Scheme.
The exercise price is set at a 20% discount to the average market price of the Companys shares over the three dealing days immediately preceding invitation to the Scheme.
The cost of exercise is met entirely by the Director, and is accumulated by deductions from salary over the period between grant and vesting.
Total to be Options deducted from salary to cover Number of exercise cost options Face value Exercise price Earliest Executive Director Grant date 000 granted 000 p exercise date Expiry date Lucinda Bell 22 06 2015 9 1,291 9 697 01 09 2018 28 02 2019 Directors pension entitlements under the dened benefit pension scheme audited information The below table details the defined benefit pension accrued by participating Directors at 31 March 2016.
Defined benefit pension Normal 1 accrued at 31March 2016 retirement Executive Director 000 age Lucinda Bell 101 60 Tim Roberts 81 60 1 The accrued pension is based on service to the year end and final pensionable salary at that date.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Directors shareholdings at 31 March 2016 The following table shows the Directors interests in fully paid ordinary British Land shares including shares held by connected persons and, for Executive Directors, including Matching Share Plan Bonus Shares and shares held in the Share Incentive Plan.
Purchases after the year end up to one month before publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting On 6 April 2016 Lynn Gladden was allotted 1,063 shares, William Jackson was allotted 486 shares, Tim Score was allotted 1,416 shares, Lord Turnbull was allotted 359 shares and Laura Wade-Gery was allotted 718 shares, all at a price of 696.3945 pence per share, as part of their standing instructions to receive shares in full or part satisfaction of their Non-Executive Directors fees.
On 14 April 2016 Chris Grigg purchased 20 shares, Lucinda Bell purchased 20 shares, Charles Maudsley purchased 17 shares and Tim Roberts purchased 21 shares, all at a price of 730.5208 pence per share, under the partnership element of the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Accordingly, Chris Grigg was awarded 40 shares, Lucinda Bell was awarded 40 shares, Charles Maudsley was awarded 34 shares and Tim Roberts was awarded 42 shares under the matching element of the SIP.
On 6 May 2016 Chris Grigg acquired 68 shares, Lucinda Bell acquired 153 shares, Charles Maudsley acquired 50 shares and Tim Roberts acquired 144 shares, all at a price of 722 pence per share, under the dividend element of the SIP.
Executive Directors minimum shareholding guideline The minimum shareholding guideline requires the Executive Directors to hold fully vested shares of a certain percentage of salary.
The number and value of shares required as a target is fixed once a year.
There is no set timescale required to reach the target but it should be achieved through the regular additions anticipated by vestings of long term incentive awards.
No purchases are required either to reach the level or to respond to share price falls but Executive Directors are expected to increase their holding of shares each year until the target is attained.
Shares included are those unfettered and beneficially owned by the Director and by his or her connected persons not including deferred Annual Incentive Shares, Matching Share Plan Bonus Shares or locked-in Share Incentive Plan shares.
The guideline shareholdings for the year to 31 March 2017 are shown below.
Percentage of Percentage Unfettered basic salary of basic salary holding at held at to be held Guideline 31 March 31March Executive Director in shares holding 2016 2016 Chris Grigg 225% 269,807 1,031,183 860% Lucinda Bell 150% 105,567 122,478 174% Charles Maudsley 150% 95,557 116,707 183% Tim Roberts 150% 95,557 129,031 203% Although there is no guideline holding for Non-Executive Directors, they are encouraged to hold shares in British Land.
The Company facilitates this by offering Non-Executive Directors the ability to purchase shares using their post-tax fees.
Lynn Gladden, William Jackson, Tim Score, Lord Turnbull and Laura Wade-Gery received shares in full or part satisfaction of their Non-Executive Directors fees during the year.
The notes to the single total figure table on pages 103 to 104 outline the degree to which performance measures have been, or are expected to be, achieved and the resultant proportions of the awards that are expected to vest.
Unvested option awards not available to be exercised Number Subject to End of outstanding at Option price performance performance Date becomes Exercisable 1 Executive Director Type Date of grant 31 March 2016 p measures period exercisable until Chris Grigg LTIP options 22 06 15 206,599 824.5 Yes 31 03 18 22 06 18 22 06 25 Lucinda Bell LTIP options 05 08 13 154,742 601 Yes 31 03 16 05 08 16 05 08 23 Sharesave options 23 06 14 1,567 574 No n a 01 09 17 28 02 18 Sharesave options 22 06 15 1,291 697 No n a 01 09 18 28 02 19 Tim Roberts Sharesave options 19 06 13 2,348 511 No n a 01 09 18 28 02 19 Sharesave options 23 06 14 3,135 574 No n a 01 09 19 29 02 20 1 Awards with a performance period ended 31 03 2016 are included within the 2016 Long term incentives column of the single total figure of remuneration table on page 101.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Vested option awards available to be exercised Number outstanding at Option price Exercisable Executive Director Type Date of grant 31 March 2016 p until Chris Grigg LTIP options 29 06 09 7,751 387 29 06 19 LTIP options 11 06 10 1,073,825 447 11 06 20 LTIP options 28 06 11 695,652 575 28 06 21 LTIP options 14 09 12 743,494 538 14 09 22 Lucinda Bell LTIP options 11 06 10 67,952 447 11 06 20 LTIP options 14 12 10 11,764 510 14 12 20 LTIP options 14 09 12 138,289 538 14 09 22 Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2016 Market price on Number Option price Date became date of exercise Executive Director Type Date of grant exercised p exercisable Date exercised p Lucinda Bell Sharesave options 26 06 12 2,295 392 01 09 15 01 09 15 803.5 Tim Roberts LTIP options 05 12 05 17,483 823.6 05 12 08 01 12 15 846 108 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Further disclosures Relative importance of spend on pay Remuneration of employees including Directors: The graph below shows the amount spent on remuneration of all Wages & salaries employees including Executive Directors relative to the amount spent Annual Incentives on distributions to shareholders for the years to 31 March 2016 and Social security costs 31March 2015.
Remuneration of employees increased by 7% relative to Pension costs the prior year and distributions to shareholders increased by 3%.
Equity-settled share-based payments Distributions to shareholders include ordinary and scrip dividends and the split between property income distributions PID and non-property Distributions to shareholders: income distributions non-PID is shown.
PID cash dividends paid to shareholders PID tax withholding Relative importance of spend on pay Net cash equivalent of new shares issued under Non-PID Scrip dividends 81m Net cash equivalent of new shares issued under 2015 16 PID Scrip dividends 287m 76m 2014 15 277m Seven-year total shareholder return and Chief Executives remuneration Total Shareholder Return The graph to the right shows British Lands total shareholder return for Rebased to 100, April 2009 the seven years from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2016 against that of the 350 FTSE Real Estate Investment Trusts REIT Total Return Index for the same period.
The graph shows how the total return on a 100 investment 300 in the Company, made on 1 April 2009, would have changed over the seven-year period measured, compared with the total return on a 100 investment in the FTSE REIT Total Return Index.
The FTSE REIT Total 250 Return Index has been selected as a suitable comparator because it is the index in which British Lands shares are classified.
200 The 2009 base point, required by the regulations governing this remuneration report disclosure, was close to the bottom of the property 150 cycle.
British Lands share price had not fallen as much at that time as the average share price of the FTSE REITs Sector, thereby setting a higher base point for subsequent growth.
The table below details the total 100 remuneration of the person undertaking the role of Chief Executive over April April April April April April April March 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 the same period, calculated on the same basis as the single total figure of remuneration table, and the Annual Incentive payouts and long term The British Land Company PLC incentive vesting rates as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
FTSE REITs Sector Source: Aon Hewitt 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chief Executive Chris Grigg Chris Grigg Chris Grigg Chris Grigg Chris Grigg Chris Grigg Chris Grigg Chief Executives single total figure of remuneration 000 2,082 2,329 5,353 4,810 5,398 6,551 3,709 Annual Incentive payout against maximum opportunity % 67 83 75 75 90 96 67 Long term incentives vesting rate against maximum opportunity % n a n a 99 63 98 93 54 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 Governance and Remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Chief Executives remuneration compared to remuneration of British Land employees The below table shows the percentage changes in different elements of the Chief Executives remuneration relative to the previous financial year and the average percentage changes in those elements of remuneration for employees based at British Lands head office over the same period.
Head office employees have been chosen as an appropriate comparator group for this purpose as employees based at British Lands head office carry out work of the most similar nature to the Chief Executive.
Average change Value of Chief Value of Chief Change in in remuneration Executive Executive Chief Executive element of remuneration remuneration remuneration British Land element 2016 element 2015 element employees Remuneration element 000 000 % % Salary 840 800 5.0 5.4 Taxable benefits 21 21 0.0 2.7 Annual Incentive 840 1,152 -27.1 -6.8 Executive Directors external appointments Executive Directors may take up one non-executive directorship at another FTSE company, subject to British Land Board approval.
Chris Grigg was appointed a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc on 1 July 2013.
During the year to 31 March 2016, Chris Grigg received a fee of 86,495 including 2,495 of expenses deemed to be taxable from BAE Systems plc, which he retained in full.
Lucinda Bell was appointed a non-executive director of Rotork plc on 10 July 2014.
During the year to 31 March 2016, Lucinda Bell received a fee of 43,625 from Rotork plc, which she retained in full D. 1.2.
Statement of voting at the Annual General Meeting The table below details the results of the shareholder vote to approve the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM and the shareholder vote to approve the current Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee was pleased to note the high levels of shareholder support.
Votes % Votes % Total votes Votes Resolution AGM for for against against cast withheld Approval of Directors Remuneration Report 2015 680,540,864 97.53 17,257,841 2.47 697,798,705 54,059,367 Approval of Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 684,058,054 97.30 18,953,426 2.70 703,011,480 1,198,374 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration Throughout the year the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Lord Turnbull.
Lynn Gladden and William Jackson were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Laura Wade-Gery was appointed as a Director of the Company and member of the Committee on 13 May 2015.
The following persons assisted the Committee during the year: Chris Grigg Chief Executive : Joff Sharpe Head of Operations : Elaine Williams, Charles Middleton and Victoria Penrice each of whom acted as secretary to the Remuneration Committee during the year and Alan Judes, of Strategic Remuneration.
The Committee appointed Alan Judes, of Strategic Remuneration, as its independent advisor for the year.
He also gave advice to the Company on human resources and share plan matters.
The Committee is satisfied there is no conflict in him providing such services to the Company.
Strategic Remuneration is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
Strategic Remuneration was selected by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following a competitive tender process.
The Committee assesses the advice given by Alan Judes of Strategic Remuneration to satisfy itself that the advice received is objective and independent.
Alan Judes has a private meeting with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee once a year in accordance with the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
Fees charged by Strategic Remuneration for the year amounted to 48,400 excluding VAT 73,400 excluding VAT for the year ended 31 March 2015 and are charged on a time basis.
This Report was approved by the Board on 16 May 2016.
Lord Turnbull Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 110 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016
