GOVERNANCE 85 Report of the Remuneration Committee performance, a scorecard of additional metrics is taken into account by the Committee when considering the strategic element of the Groups annual bonus scheme.
Taking all these measures into account resulted in a bonus entitlement of 23.25% of entitlement being earned.
Whilst performance against the strategic objectives was strong, the Committee recognised that this was not reflected in the financial or share price performance of the Group which was dominated by the market effects of the Brexit vote.
Accordingly, the Committee used its discretion to reduce the strategic element outcome by a quarter.
Conditional awards made in 2014 under the Groups 2014 Performance Share Scheme PSP will vest in May 2017.
These awards were subject to two performance conditions each over 50% of the award and both measured over the three year period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016.
The first element was based on total shareholder return TSR performance compared with that of a group of other real estate Claudia I. Arney companies.
This measure has been finalised and none of that Chair of the Remuneration Committee part of the award will vest.
The second part was based on the Groups total property return compared to properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index.
The IPD data will be available in March and therefore the vesting result has been Annual statement estimated at the year end.
The combined assessment of the two performance measures as Dear Shareholder, at 28 February 2017 was that around 25% of the total award was I am pleased to present the report of the Remuneration expected to vest.
The final vesting percentage will be ascertained Committee for the year ended 31 December 2016, my first in March 2017 and the award will vest in May 2017. report since becoming Chair of the Remuneration Committee The Committee believes that the outturn of both the annual in June 2016 and having joined the Board a year earlier.
bonus and the PSP fairly represents the Groups NAV and share My appointment coincided with the start of a comprehensive price performance over their respective performance periods.
review of executive remuneration in advance of our second 2017 Remuneration policy and implementation binding remuneration policy shareholder vote at the May 2017 The purpose of the review was to ensure a structure which AGM.
This marks the third anniversary and, therefore, the expiry of our 2014 policy.
In summary, the Committee is satisfied that supports the Companys key remuneration principles.
These include: the existing remuneration policy and structure continues to serve the Company well and that there should be no significant Rewarding executives for delivering above average long-term changes, including to overall quantum and variable pay returns to shareholders.
We are, however, enhancing our share ownership Enabling the Company to recruit, retain and motivate the guidelines to provide greater alignment with shareholders and best people.
this is in addition to the inclusion of a two-year holding period which was introduced as part of the 2014 policy.
Promoting long-term sustainable performance whilst ensuring that the structure does not create incentives for management I set out below a summary of the pay outcomes for the 2016 to operate outside the Groups risk appetite.
financial year, the objectives and key features of the revised remuneration policy and how it will be implemented in 2017.
Ensuring the metrics used in incentive schemes remain effectively aligned to business strategy.
Performance and reward in 2016 The Groups results for 2016 are discussed in the Strategic Reflecting developments in evolving best practice and Report and include a total property return of 2.9% and a total corporate governance.
Both these KPIs are measures of performance Taking account of wider stakeholders, including employees used in assessing the level of performance related pay for the when determining executive directors remuneration.
To ensure that remuneration reflects a balanced Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 86 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued As mentioned above, the Committee concluded that the existing Long-term TSR performance will be assessed against the FTSE policy, which has a significant weighting on performance-related 350 Real Estate Index constituents this is a larger peer group pay, continues to serve the Company well and that there should than the previous group of 12 real estate companies and will be no significant changes except to share ownership guidelines result in a more robust median to upper quartile comparison, which have been increased to 200% of salary for all Directors.
The particularly in the event of any delistings during the period.
key elements of the 2017 remuneration policy are set out below: Long-term TPR performance will be assessed against the Base salary increases to be guided by the workforce increase.
quarterly IPD UK All Property Index rather than the Central London Offices index.
The UK All Property Index is consistent Annual bonus 150% of salary maximum retained.
More choice with our stated 3-year objective see page 31. on the metrics that may apply subject to a minimum of 75% weighting on financial objectives.
There will be full disclosure The Committee reviewed the historic IPD index and Median of the bonus targets and performance against them in the returns in recent years and found that the index has consistently following years report.
been higher than the Median.
To reflect this, the TPR element of the bonus and PSP will pay out in full if the Companys Long-term incentive 200% of salary maximum retained.
performance is at least 3% pa higher than the relevant Index.
Metrics and weightings may be tailored to reflect the key The Committee believes this is a stretching outperformance medium-term strategic aims of the business directly prior to target in the current market, it is as challenging as the previous grant, subject to at least one third being relative total TPR target range and it is more challenging than most, if not all, shareholder return TSR.
the targets used in our peers incentive plans.
Share ownership guidelines a 200% of salary guideline will Shareholder engagement apply for all executive directors and not just the Chief Executive.
As part of the policy review, the Committee consulted a number No changes have been made to overall quantum and variable pay of our largest shareholders in 2016.
The Committee was very opportunities and the two-year post-vesting holding period for grateful for the feedback received and, reflecting these comments, the performance share plan will be retained.
The new policy will some amendments to the original proposals were made.
be proposed to shareholders for a binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee will continue to encourage an open and Implementation in 2017 constructive dialogue with shareholders and their representative John Burns and Simon Silvers salaries will not be increased for bodies, and will consult with major shareholders on any material 2017.
The other executive Directors salaries will be increased by changes to the remuneration policy or to how it is implemented.
2.5% which is in line with the average cost of living salary We are aware that the executive remuneration landscape is increase across the rest of the Group.
evolving and of the potential for change, and will continue to monitor developments as they arise.
The annual bonus and PSP opportunities and metrics remain unchanged with the bonus based on relative total return, total There will be two votes on remuneration at the forthcoming property return relative to the IPD index and strategic measures AGM, a binding vote on the remuneration policy and an advisory and the PSP based on relative TSR and total property return vote on the rest of the report.
I hope that you will be able to relative to the IPD index.
While the measures remain the same, support these resolutions.
If you have any questions or the Committee has made adjustments to the comparator comments then please feel free to contact me through Tim Kite, calculations to improve transparency and alignment with strategy: the Company Secretary.
TPR will be measured against the quarterly IPD index rather than the median property.
The index is weighted by property Claudia I. Arney value and therefore, in the Committees view, provides a better Chair of the Remuneration Committee measure of market return than measurement against the 28 February 2017 median property in the index as has been used up till now.
Using the index is also consistent with the Companys KPI and investor presentation disclosures.
Key activities Obtained external confirmation of the vesting result for the performance share plan and made the 2017 conditional award.
The principal activities of the Committee during the year were: Set the salaries for 2017.
Responsibilities To determine the remuneration packages for the executive Short index Directors and selected other senior executives.
Annual statement 85 To oversee the operation of the Groups annual bonus Directors remuneration policy scheme and performance share plan.
88 To consider the level of business risk that the remuneration Operation of annual bonus plan 91 structure encourages the executives to take.
Key activities in 2016 Remuneration scenarios.
92 Carried out a comprehensive review of executive Annual report on remuneration remuneration in preparation for the Groups second binding Application of policy for 2017.
94 vote on remuneration policy at the May 2017 AGM.
96 Obtained external verification of the result of the financial elements of the bonus scheme and carried out the assessment Directors interests and shareholding guidelines.
101 of the performance against the strategic targets.
GOVERNANCE 87 This part of the Directors Remuneration Report has been Differences between the proposed remuneration policy and prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized the previous one Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Having conducted a thorough review of remuneration and taken Regulations 2013 the Act.
The overall remuneration policy has independent advice, the Committee was satisfied that the 2014 been developed in compliance with the principles of the UK shareholder-approved remuneration policy continues to serve Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules.
the Company well and that there should be no significant changes, including to overall quantum and variable pay The Remuneration Policy Report set out below will be put to a opportunities.
The key differences between the proposed binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 19 May 2017 and, if remuneration policy and the previous policy are: approved, the Committee intends for it to apply for a period of three financial years, 2017 to 2019.
The Annual Statement by Performance metrics to provide the Committee with greater the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual choice on the performance metrics that apply to the annual Report on Directors Remuneration will be put to a single bonus and PSP and their relative weightings.
This ensures the advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
Committee is able to target those metrics which are closely aligned to the short and medium term objectives of the Company during each year of the policy period.
Under the Directors remuneration policy annual bonus plan, at least 75% of the overall opportunity will be based on financial metrics and under the PSP, total shareholder The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for return remains a key measure and will account for at least determining remuneration packages for the executive Directors one-third of the awards made during the life of the policy.
and selected other senior executives.
It also oversees the operation of the Groups bonus scheme and Performance Share Share ownership guidelines the Committee believes strongly Plan PSP and considers the level of business risk that the in alignment of executives interests with those of shareholders remuneration structure encourages the executives to take.
Therefore, a 200% of salary guideline will continue to apply for the CEO and the The key aims of the Committees remuneration policy for senior guideline for other executive Directors will be increased from executives are: 125% to 200% of salary.
A two-year holding period on vested to ensure that the Company attracts, retains and motivates PSP awards will continue to apply.
executives who have the skills and experience necessary to make a significant contribution to the delivery of the Groups objectives: to incentivise key executives through a remuneration package that is appropriately competitive with other real estate companies taking into account the experience and importance to the business of the individuals involved, whilst also having broad regard to the level of remuneration in similar sized FTSE 350 companies.
The Committee also takes account of the pay and conditions throughout the Company: to align, as far as possible, the interests of the senior executives with those of shareholders by providing a significant proportion of the Directors total remuneration potential through a balanced mix of short and long-term performance related elements that are consistent with the Groups business strategy: to enable executive Directors to accumulate shareholdings in the Company over time that are personally meaningful to them: to ensure that performance measures under incentive schemes support the Companys strategy, have appropriately stretching performance conditions attached and are designed so as to be consistent with best practice: and to ensure that the Groups remuneration structure does not encourage management to adopt an unacceptable risk profile for the business.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 88 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Executive Director policy table The policy table below sets out the broad principles which will be applied when setting the individual remuneration packages of Directors.
This should be read in conjunction with the recruitment and promotion policy on page 93 and the application of policy for 2017 on pages 94 and 95.
Purpose and link to strategy How operated Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base To help recruit, retain Normally reviewed annually.
The current salary levels are A broad assessment of personal salary and motivate high Any increase is normally effective detailed in the Annual Report on and corporate performance is calibre executives.
Factors taken into Remuneration on page 94 and considered as part of the Reflects experience account in the review include: will be eligible for increases during salary review.
and importance to the the period that the Directors The role, experience and business.
performance of the individual and the Company.
During this time, to the extent that Economic conditions.
salaries are increased, increases Increases throughout the rest will normally be consistent with the of the business.
policy applied to the workforce Levels in companies with similar generally in percentage of business characteristics.
Salaries are set after having due Increases beyond those linked to regard to the salary levels operating the workforce generally in in companies of a broadly similar percentage of salary terms may be size and complexity, the awarded in certain circumstances responsibilities of each individual such as where there is a change in role, individual performance and responsibility, experience or a an individuals experience.
significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary of a new hire at a discount to the market level initially, and to implement a series of planned increases over the subsequent few years, potentially higher than for the wider workforce, in order to bring the salary to the desired position, subject to individual performance.
Benefits To provide a market Benefits include, but are not The maximum cost of providing None.
competitive benefits limited to, private medical benefits is not pre-determined and package to help recruit insurance, car and fuel allowance may vary from year-to-year based and retain high calibre and life assurance.
on the overall cost to the Company executives.
in securing these benefits for In certain circumstances, the a population of employees Medical benefits Committee may also approve particularly health insurance to help minimise additional allowances relating to 1 and death-in-service cover.
relocation of an executive Director or other expatriate benefits The Committee has discretion to required to perform the role.
approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances such as The Committee may provide other relocation, or where factors employee benefits to executive outside of the Committees control Directors on broadly similar terms have changed materially such as to the wider workforce.
The Committee has the ability to reimburse reasonable business related expenses and any tax thereon.
1 In relation to the types of benefits detailed in the above table, the only benefit which is considered to be significant in value terms is the provision of a company car or the provision of cash in lieu of providing a company car.
The value of the benefit will be either the taxable value assessed according to HMRC rules when a company car is provided or the cash amount in the case of cash in lieu of a company car.
In either case, the provision of this benefit is limited to a cost of 50,000.
GOVERNANCE 89 Purpose and link to strategy How operated Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Pension To help recruit and The Company operates a defined Directors receive a contribution or None.
retain high calibre contribution pension scheme.
cash supplement or a mix of both executives and reward Where contributions would exceed of up to 20% of salary.
continued contribution either the lifetime or annual Legacy arrangements for some to the business.
contribution limits cash payments Directors mean that a fixed amount in lieu are made.
is paid in addition to the 20% contribution.
The continuation of these arrangements for existing employees means that their maximum pension will be up to 21% of salary.
Annual To incentivise the Bonus payments are determined Maximum bonus potential, for At least 75% of the annual bonus bonus annual delivery of by the Committee after the year the achievement of stretching will be based on financial measures stretching financial end, based on performance performance conditions is 150% with up to 25% based on strategic targets and strategic against the targets set at the start of salary for all Directors.
Metrics may include but are not performance Bonuses up to 100% of salary are limited to: measures reflect KPIs paid as cash.
Amounts in excess total return against other of the business.
of 100% are deferred into shares comparable real estate of which 50% are released after companies: 12 months and the balance after total property return versus an 24 months.
These deferred shares appropriate IPD index: and are potentially forfeitable if the performance objectives tailored executive leaves prior to the share to the delivery of the Groups release date.
Dividend equivalents accrue on Up to 22.5% of the relevant bonus vested deferred shares.
element will be payable for The bonus is not pensionable.
threshold performance against the financial measures, with full payout The cash and deferred elements of for achieving challenging stretch bonuses are subject to provisions performance targets.
that enable the Committee to recover the cash paid clawback The performance measures will be or to lapse the associated deferred reviewed annually by the shares withhold payments in the Committee and the Committee event of a misstatement of results, retains discretion to vary measures error in calculation or for gross and weightings as appropriate misconduct.
subject to the minimum financial measures weighting set out above to ensure they continue to be linked to the delivery of Company strategy.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the payment outcome if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the overall business performance of the Company over the performance period.
Any exercise of discretion will be detailed in the following years annual report on remuneration.
Details of the bonus targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the next years annual report on remuneration when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Board.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 90 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Executive Director policy table continued Purpose and link to strategy How operated Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-term To align the long-term The Committee makes an award Annual award limit: up to 200% of Long-term incentive awards vest incentives interests of the of performance shares each year.
salary in any financial year.
based on three-year performance Directors with those of against a challenging range of Vesting is determined by the the Groups performance targets, with at least Groups achievements against shareholders.
one third of an award based on stretching performance targets total shareholder return TSR.
To incentivise value over three years and continued Other metrics may include, but are creation over the employment.
performance against the targets is not limited to, total property return independently verified on behalf of relative to an appropriate IPD or To aid retention.
equivalent index, total return and NAV or earnings growth.
A further holding period of two years is required on after tax Up to 22.5% of each part of an vested shares.
award vests for achieving the threshold performance level with Dividend equivalents may accrue full vesting for achieving on performance shares to the challenging stretch performance extent that performance conditions targets.
No awards vest for below have been met, payable at the end threshold performance levels.
of the vesting or, if applicable, the end of the holding period.
The performance criteria will be reviewed annually by the Clawback and malus provisions Committee prior to each grant and apply in the event of misstatement, the Committee has discretion to an error in calculation or as a result vary measures and weightings as of misconduct which results in the appropriate to ensure they individual ceasing to be a director continue to be linked to the or employee of the Group within delivery of Company strategy two years of vesting.
subject to the minimum weighting Awards will be satisfied by either on TSR as set out above.
newly issued shares or shares The Committee has discretion to purchased in the market.
Any use adjust the vesting outcome in of newly issued shares will be exceptional circumstances to limited to corporate governance ensure that vesting outcomes are compliant dilution limits contained a true reflection of the overall in the scheme rules.
performance of the Company over the performance period.
Any use of discretion will be fully explained in the next years remuneration report.
Share To provide alignment Executive Directors are required to All executive Directors None.
ownership between executives retain at least half of any deferred 200% of salary.
bonus share awards or performance Non-executive Directors shares vesting net of tax until the no guideline.
Only wholly owned shares will count towards the guideline.
NonTo help recruit and The remuneration for the Chairman The current non-executives fees None.
executive retain high calibre is set by the full Board excluding and benefits where applicable Directors non-executives with the Chairman.
may be increased at higher rates fees relevant skills and than the wider workforce given The remuneration for nonexperience.
Reflects that fees may only be reviewed executive Directors is set time commitments and periodically and to ensure that any by the executive Directors.
changes in time commitment are The Chairman receives benefits appropriately recognised in the fee limited to a company car and levels set.
driver, secretarial provision and office costs.
Periodic fee reviews will set a base fee and, where relevant, fees for additional services such as serving on a Board Committee, chairing a Board Committee or holding the position of Senior Independent Director.
The review will consider the expected time commitments and scope of responsibilities for each role as well as market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
GOVERNANCE 91 Long-term performance targets for 2017 are based Operation of the annual bonus plan and performance share plan policy on a combination of relative performance measures.
Total Shareholder Return will be used as it provides a clear The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and performance share plan in accordance with their respective alignment between shareholders and executives and total property return TPR will be used as it promotes the aim to rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA where relevant.
As part of the rules the Committee holds certain maximise returns from the investment portfolio.
TSR will be measured against the constituents of the FTSE 350 Real Estate discretions which are required for an efficient operation and administration of these plans and are consistent with standard Index as this provides a robust and relevant benchmark.
TPR will be measured against the IPD UK All Property Index as this is in market practice.
These include the following discretions: line with the Groups KPI of exceeding the IPD UK All Property Participants of the plans.
index on a three-year rolling basis.
The timing of grant of award and or payment.
How the pay of employees is taken into account and how The size of an award and or a payment albeit with quantum it compares to executive Director remuneration policy and performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed While the Company does not formally consult employees on in the policy table on pages 88 to 90. remuneration in determining the remuneration policy for executive Directors, the Committee takes account of the policy The determination of vesting.
for employees across the workforce.
In particular when setting Discretion required when dealing with a change of control base salaries for executives, the Committee compares the salary e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring increases with those for the workforce as a whole.
The overall remuneration policy for executive Directors is Determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan broadly consistent with the remainder of the workforce.
purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate However, whilst executive remuneration is weighted towards treatment chosen.
performance-related pay, the Company operates both option and bonus schemes for employees albeit at lower quantum and Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights subject to performance criteria more appropriate for their role issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends.
which are similar to those of the Directors.
The annual review of performance conditions for the annual How the views of shareholders are taken into account bonus plan and Performance Share Plan from year-to-year.
The Committee actively seeks dialogue with shareholders and If certain events occur e. g. a material divestment or acquisition of values their input.
A comprehensive shareholder consultation a Group business, accounting changes, M&A activity, which was undertaken in formulating the Companys revised mean the original performance conditions are no longer remuneration policy.
The Committee considered carefully the appropriate, the Committee retains the ability to make feedback received from major shareholders and proxy voting adjustments to the targets and or set different measures and alter agencies and made changes to the policy and its implementation, weightings as necessary to ensure the conditions achieve their as appropriate.
On an ongoing basis, any feedback received original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
from shareholders is considered as part of the Committees annual review of remuneration.
The Committee will also discuss The outstanding share incentive awards which are detailed voting outcomes at the relevant Committee meeting and will in tables 2 and 3 on pages 99 and 101 will remain eligible consult with shareholders when making any significant changes to vest based on their original award terms.
In addition, all to the remuneration policy or the way it is being implemented.
arrangements previously disclosed in previous reports of the Remuneration Committee will remain eligible to vest or become payable on their original terms.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting for 2017 The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long-term incentive plans are aligned to the Companys KPIs.
For the 2017 annual bonus, a combination of sector specific financial performance measures are used, namely total return and total property return.
Total return and total property return are measured on a relative basis against sector peers and industry benchmarks such as IPD.
The precise measures, targets and weightings chosen may vary each year, depending on the Companys strategy.
Strategic objectives are set on an annual basis, directly linked to the overall strategic focus at that time.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 92 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors With regard to annual bonus for a departing executive Director, The Committee aims to provide a significant part of the if employment ends by reason of death, retirement, injury, Directors total remuneration through variable pay and the ill-health, disability, redundancy or transfer of employment following diagram illustrates the remuneration opportunity outside the Group, or any other reason as determined by the provided to the Directors by the remuneration structure at Committee i. e. the individual is a good leaver, the executive minimum, target and maximum levels of performance.
Director may be considered for a bonus payment.
If the termination is for any other reason, any entitlement to bonus would normally lapse.
Under any circumstance, it is the Committees policy to ensure that any bonus payment reflects 000s the departing executive Directors performance.
Any bonus 3,500 payment will normally be delayed until the performance 3,066 conditions have been determined for the relevant period and be 42% 3,000 subject to a pro-rata reduction for the portion of the relevant 2,622 bonus year that the individual was employed.
Deferred bonus 42% share awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment, 2,500 however, in the case of good leavers, awards typically vest on 1,978 the normal vesting date or on cessation in the event of death.
2,000 42% With regards to PSP awards, if a participant resigns voluntarily, 1,598 31% 18% the award lapses.
The 2014 PSP rules provide standard good 1,363 1,500 31% 18% leaver definitions for death, retirement, injury, ill-health, 30% 1,020 31% 30% disability, redundancy or transfer of employment outside the 18% 1,000 833 Group, or any other reason at the Committees discretion, 706 100% 52% 27% 30% 52% 27% 520 whereby awards will vest at their original vesting date subject 100% 100% 52% 27% 500 to performance criteria being achieved and time pro-rating to reduce vested awards for time served in the relevant period.
0 The Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum target target target it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Johns Burns Simon Silver Other Directors Alternatively, for a good leaver, the Committee can decide that the award will vest on cessation subject to the performance Total fixed pay Long-term share awards conditions measured at that time and the same pro-rating Annual bonus described above.
Such treatment will apply in the case of death.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment detailed Assumptions: above for good leavers would apply albeit with performance Below target fixed pay only base salary, benefits and pension.
tested over the shortened performance period, and early vesting On-target 50% of annual bonus payable and 22.5% vesting of the LTIP awards.
Maximum 100% of annual bonus payable and full vesting of LTIP awards.
Salary based on those applying on 1 January 2017.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Benefits value is based on the cost of supplying those benefits using the Neither the Chairman nor non-executive Directors are eligible for annualised value of benefits in 31 December 2016 as a proxy.
pension scheme membership and do not participate in the Pension value set at 20% of the salary.
Companys bonus or equity-based incentive schemes.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
Share price growth on vesting and any dividends payable on vesting shares have The non-executive Directors listed below do not have service been ignored.
contracts but are appointed for three year terms which expire Other Directors are: Damian Wisniewski, Paul Williams, Nigel George and as follows: David Silverman, whose salary, annual bonus and LTIP arrangements for 2017 are identical.
Stephen Young 31 July 2019 Service contracts and compensation for loss of office Richard Dakin 31 July 2019 As part of the major review of the Directors remuneration Claudia Arney 31 May 2018 structure undertaken in 2013 2014, all the executive Directors Simon Fraser 31 August 2018 entered into new service contracts dated 16 May 2014.
Cilla Snowball 31 August 2018 Executive Directors service contracts are terminable either by the Company providing 12 months notice or by the executive Stuart Corbyns appointment was extended for one year to providing six months notice.
Contracts include a payment in expire on 23 May 2017. lieu of notice clause which provides for monthly phased Mr Rayne has a letter of appointment, which runs for three payments throughout the notice period which include pro-rated years, expiring on 25 March 2019.
In addition to his fee as salary, benefits and pension only and are subject to mitigation.
Chairman, it provides for a car, driver and secretary, together In addition, the Company may also make payments in relation with a contribution to his office running costs.
His letter of to any statutory claim against the Company or make a modest appointment also contains provisions relating to payment in lieu provision in respect of legal costs or outplacement fees.
The new service contracts have no change of control provisions and all other elements were brought up to date in line with External appointments best practice.
Executive Directors may accept a non-executive role at another company with the approval of the Board.
The executive is entitled to retain any fees paid for these services.
GOVERNANCE 93 Recruitment and promotion policy When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Base salary levels will be set taking into account the individuals experience and skills, prevailing market rates in companies of comparable size and complexity and internal relativities.
Where appropriate the Committee may set the initial salary below this level e. g. if the individual has limited PLC Board experience or is new to the role, with the intention to make phased pay increases over a number of years, which may be above those of the wider workforce, to achieve the desired market positioning.
These increases will be subject to continued development in the role.
Benefits Benefits as provided to current executive Directors.
The Committee may pay relevant relocation and legal expenses in order to facilitate a recruitment.
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at the level provided to current executive Directors.
Annual bonus The Committee would intend to operate the same annual bonus plan for all Directors, including the same maximum opportunity at 150% of salary, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment.
However, depending on the nature and timing of an appointment, the Committee reserves the right to set different performance measures, targets and weightings for the first bonus plan year if considered appropriate.
Any bonus criteria in such circumstances would be disclosed in the following years annual report on remuneration.
Long-term Performance Share Plan awards would be granted in line with the policy set out in the policy table, with incentives the possibility of an award being made after an appointment.
The maximum ongoing annual award would be limited to the maximum limit set out in the policy table.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
Buy-out awards Should it be the case that the Remuneration Committee considers it necessary to buy out remuneration which an individual would forfeit on leaving their current employer, such compensation would be structured so that the terms of the buy-out would have a fair value no higher than that of what is being forfeited and would generally be determined on a comparable basis taking into account the form, structure and vesting schedule of the remuneration being replaced as well as the probability of vesting.
The Committee has the discretion to determine the type of replacement award cash, shares, the vesting period and whether or not performance conditions apply.
Where possible this will be accommodated under the Companys existing incentive plans, but it may be necessary to utilise the exemption under rule 9.4.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments in the following years annual report on remuneration.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 94 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Application of policy for 2017 Annual report on remuneration Base salaries Remuneration Committee The base salaries that are applicable from 1 January 2017, are as follows: The Committee was served throughout the year by Simon Fraser, Stuart Corbyn, Stephen Young and Claudia Arney.
John Burns 638,000 On 1 July 2016, Claudia Arney took over the chair of the Simon Silver 547,500 Committee from Simon Fraser and Stuart Corbyn left the Committee on 31 December 2016.
None of the members Damian Wisniewski 416,500 who have served during the year had any personal interest in Paul Williams 416,500 the matters decided by the Committee, or any day-to-day involvement in the running of the business and, therefore, are Nigel George 416,500 considered to be independent.
The full terms of reference of David Silverman 416,500 the Committee are available on the Companys website.
John Burns and Simon Silver declined any increase in their base New Bridge Street NBS a trading name for Aon plc was salary for 2017.
Base salaries for the other Executive Directors retained to provide independent assistance to the Committee were increased by 2.5% which was in line with the cost of living regarding the setting of salaries and the operation of the PSP increase awarded to the wider workforce.
In particular, NBS provides an independent Benefits and pension assessment of outcomes under the bonus scheme and the Benefits will continue to include a car and fuel allowance, private extent of vesting of the conditional share awards under the PSP medical insurance and life insurance.
Pension benefits are and ensures that the measures used for both schemes are provided by way of a Company contribution at up to 21% comparable and consistent.
This year, NBS also advised the of salary for all executive Directors.
Committee on the revision of the Groups remuneration policy which will be voted on at the AGM in May 2017.
The fees paid to Annual bonus NBS for these services, based on hourly rates, amount to The bonus will operate subject to the following metrics with 82,500.
NBS did not provide any other services to the Group a bonus potential of 150% for all executive Directors: during the year and the Committee is satisfied that the advice 37.5% of bonus will be earned based on Derwent Londons total provided by NBS is independent and objective.
return against other major real estate companies.
No Director had any involvement in determining his own 37.5% of bonus will be earned based on Derwent Londons TPR remuneration although some of the matters considered by the versus the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index.
Committee, other than his own salary, were discussed with John Burns.
The Company Secretary acted as Secretary to 25% of bonus will be earned subject to other performance the Committee.
objectives tailored to the delivery of the Groups short and medium-term strategy.
The objectives will be similar to those used in the 2016 annual bonus, which are set out in full on page 97.
For achieving the threshold performance target i. e. at the IPD Index or median total return against our sector peers, 22.5% of the maximum bonus opportunity will become payable.
Total return pay-out accrues on a straight line basis between the threshold level for median performance and maximum payment for upper quartile performance or better.
For TPR, the payout accrues on a straight line basis between the threshold level for index performance and maximum payment for index 3.0%.
Overview of remuneration framework Remuneration component Key features Base salary and employment benefits To help recruit, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
Reflects experience and importance to the business.
Annual bonus To incentivise the delivery of stretching financial targets and personal performance plans.
Long term incentive plan To align long term interests of Directors with those of shareholders.
Share ownership guidelines To provide alignment between Directors and shareholders.
All executive Directors: 200% of salary.
GOVERNANCE 95 Bonuses earned above 100% of salary will be subject to deferral Performance periods will run over three financial years.
into Companys shares with half of the deferred element For awards granted in 2014 and beyond, as a minimum, released on the first anniversary of the deferral and the after-tax number of vested shares must be retained for a the remaining half released on the second anniversary.
minimum holding period of two years.
This five-year aggregate period is considered appropriate for a Company focused on The cash and deferred elements of bonuses are subject to aligning executives with shareholders over the long-term.
provisions that enable the Committee to recover the cash paid clawback or to lapse the associated deferred shares withhold Awards granted under the Companys 2014 performance share payments in the event of a misstatement of results for the plan include provisions that enable the Committee to recover financial year to which the bonus relates, error in calculation value in the event of a misstatement of results for any of the or for gross misconduct within two years of the payment financial years to which the vesting of an award related, or an of the cash bonus, or vesting of the deferred bonus shares.
error in calculation when determining the vesting result, or as a result of misconduct which results in the individual ceasing to be Long-term incentives a Director or employee of the Group within two years of the It is proposed that long-term incentive awards in 2017 will vesting i. e. clawback provisions apply.
The mechanism through be granted at 200% of salary to all executive Directors.
which the clawback can be implemented enables the Committee to i reduce the cash bonus earned in a subsequent year and or Half of an award vests according to the Groups relative TSR performance versus the constituents of the FTSE 350 reduce outstanding discretionary long-term incentive share awards i. e. withholding amounts to become payable may be Real Estate Index with the following vesting profile: used to effect a clawback or ii for the Committee to require Vesting that a net of tax balancing cash payment be made.
TSR Performance of the Company relative to % of TSR part FTSE 350 Real Estate Index tested over three years of award Non-executive Directors fees Below median 0 The fees effective from 1 January 2016 are: Chairman 150,000 At median 22.5 additional benefits are provided as detailed on page 92 : Upper quartile 100 base fee 42,500: Committee Chairman fee 7,500: Senior Independent Director fee 5,500: and Committee membership Straight-line vesting occurs between these points fee 4,000.
The other half of an award vests according to the Groups relative TPR versus the IPD UK All Property Index Total Return Index with the following vesting profile: Vesting Derwent Londons annualised TPR versus the % of TPR part IPD UK All Property Index tested over three years of award Below index 0 At index 22.5 Index 3.0% 100 Straight-line vesting occurs between these points Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 96 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Directors remuneration summary audited Details of Directors remuneration are given in table 1 below: Table 1 Pension Gains from Bonus Salary Benefits and life Sub equity-settled 1 and fees in kind assurance Cash Deferred total schemes Total 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive J. D. Burns 638 67 149 222 1,076 277 1,353 S. P. Silver 547 49 144 191 931 238 1,169 D. M. A. Wisniewski 407 22 88 142 659 177 836 N. Q. George 407 22 94 142 665 177 842 P. M. Williams 407 22 92 142 663 177 840 D. G. Silverman 407 20 90 142 659 177 836 Non-executive R. A. Rayne 150 44 194 194 S. A. Corbyn 55 55 55 S. G. Young 62 62 62 S. W. D. Fraser 71 71 71 R. D. C. Dakin 62 62 62 C. I. Arney 54 54 54 P. D. Snowball 51 51 51 3,318 246 657 981 0 5,202 1,223 6,425 1 The gains from equity-settled shares are in respect of the 2014 award which will vest in May 2017 and for which the performance conditions were complete or substantially complete at 31 December 2016.
The value is based on an estimate of expected vesting and the average share price over the last three months of 2016 of 25.12.
As at 24 February 2017, the share price was 27.12.
The value has been restated in this years report to reflect the actual number of awards which vested and the share price on the date the awards were transferred to participants.
2 June fide Moller retired from the Board in December 2015.
3 Robert Farnes retired from the Board in May 2015.
4 Claudia Arney joined the Board in May 2015.
5 Cilla Snowball joined the Board in September 2015.
GOVERNANCE 97 Payments for loss of office No payments were made to past Directors or in respect of loss of office during 2016 or 2015.
Benefits Taxable benefits relates to car and fuel allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance.
Determination of 2016 annual bonus outcome Provision has been made for a bonus for 2016 of 23.3% 2015: 74.2% of the maximum potential.
This has been derived as follows: Three quarter Weighting Threshold vesting Maximum Actual Payable Performance measure % of bonus Basis of calculation % % % % % Total return 50.0 Total return 2.6 n a 10.1 1.7 Nil of major real estate companies Total property return 25.0 Relative to IPD 2.4 4.9 7.4 2.9 8.25 Central London Offices Total Return Index In addition to the above formulaic result, 25% of the annual bonus is measured against the following set of strategic targets: Target Maximum 2016 2016 range award achievement award Void management 0-10% 5.0% 2.6% 4% This is measured by the Groups average EPRA vacancy rate over the year.
More details on this KPI are given on page 32.
Tenant retention 50-75% 5.0% 63% 3% This is measured by the percentage of tenants that remain in their space when their lease expires.
This key metric is described in more detail on page 33.
Portfolios development potential 40-50% 2.5% 43% 1% This is measured by the percentage of the Groups portfolio by area, where a potential development scheme has been identified.
This is another key metric monitored by the Board and more detail is given on page 33.
Unexpired lease term 5-10 years 2.5% 8.9 years 2% This is measured by the topped-up weighted average unexpired lease term of the Groups core income producing portfolio.
Whilst not a published key metric, it is used by management to help maintain an appropriately balanced portfolio.
Sustainability New build Excellent 5.0% Both 5% This is assessed by the Groups achievements Major refurbishment schemes against the BREEAM benchmark at its new Very good assessed developments or major refurbishments.
this year More details on this KPI are given on page 32. achieved their targets Staff satisfaction 70% to 90% of staff to 5.0% 96% 5% Staff surveys are used to assess this measure.
be satisfied or better 1 25% 20% 1 The Committee has used its discretion to reduce the award derived from the strategic targets by 25% to give a final award of 15% out of the possible 25%.
These results demonstrate the extremely strong year that the Group had at an operational level.
However, the Committee recognises that this is not reflected in the financial or share price performance of the Group which has been dominated by the market effects of the Brexit vote.
Given this unique situation, the Committee has used its discretion to reduce the award derived from the strategic targets by 25% to give a final award of 15% out of the possible 25%.
The total bonus estimated for each executive is therefore: Bonus payable Deferred bonus Cash bonus % of % of payable % of Executive maximum salary salary J. D. Burns 23.25 34.88 222,503 S. P. Silver 23.25 34.88 190,941 D. M. A. Wisniewski 23.25 34.88 141,767 N. Q. George 23.25 34.88 141,767 P. M. Williams 23.25 34.88 141,767 D. G. Silverman 23.25 34.88 141,767 The Committee plans to use the same metrics for 2017 but the targets will be disclosed retrospectively as they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 98 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Performance Share Plan Half the awards granted in 2014 under the 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP were subject to a relative TSR performance measure and half subject to the Groups total property return.
The performance condition was complete or substantially complete at the year end and the Committee made the following assessment of vesting: Three % vesting Weighting Basis of Threshold quarter Maximum Actual estimated Performance measure % of award calculation % vesting % % % vesting Total property return 50 Relative to 14.7 17.2 19.7 16.0 24.9 IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index Total shareholder return 50 TSR of major 17.7 n a 48.2 6.0 Nil real estate companies As required by the scheme rules, before allowing any vesting, the Committee considered whether these performance measures reflected the Groups underlying financial performance.
Having considered a range of key financial indicators, including profits and NAV performance, the Committee concluded that, for the parts of the 2014 awards with measurement periods ending in 2016, this was the case.
Therefore, the vesting for each executive is estimated to be: Number of Value of award 1 shares on vesting Executive vesting J. D. Burns 11,044 277,425 S. P. Silver 9,474 237,987 D. M. A. Wisniewski 7,033 176,669 N. Q. George 7,033 176,669 P. M. Williams 7,033 176,669 D. G. Silverman 7,033 176,669 1 Based on the average share price over the last three months of the financial year of 25.12 and the estimated vesting percentage of 24.9%.
The vested awards are subject to a two year holding period.
On 4 April 2016 the Committee made an award under the Groups 2014 PSP to executive Directors on the following basis: % of face Basis of award Share price at Number of Face value of value which granted date of grant shares award vests at Type of award % of salary awarded threshold J. D. Burns Nil-cost option 200 31.35 40,700 1,275,945 22.5% S. P. Silver Nil-cost option 200 31.35 34,925 1,094,899 22.5% D. M. A. Wisniewski Nil-cost option 200 31.35 25,930 812,906 22.5% N. Q. George Nil-cost option 200 31.35 25,930 812,906 22.5% P. M. Williams Nil-cost option 200 31.35 25,930 812,906 22.5% D. G. Silverman Nil-cost option 200 31.35 25,930 812,906 22.5% If threshold performance is not achieved over the three-year performance period, none of the award will vest.
The performance conditions are described in more detail on page 95.
The weighted average exercise price of awards that either vested or lapsed in 2016 was nil 2015: nil.
The weighted average market price of awards vesting in 2016 was 32.05 2015: 35.27.
Awards made in 2013 and previous years were made under the Groups 2004 PSP whilst those made subsequently were made under the 2014 PSP.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 100 GOVERNANCE Report of the Remuneration Committee continued For awards granted under either the 2004 PSP or the 2014 PSP: half of the shares vest based on TSR performance relative to a comparator group of companies: for awards granted up to 2013, half of the shares vest based on NAV performance compared to properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index: and for awards granted from 2014, half of the shares vest based on TPR performance compared to the properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index.
The TSR comparator group consists of a defined group of real estate companies.
The comparator group for 2016 comprises the following Big Yellow Group plc, The British Land Company plc, Capital & Regional plc, Capital & Counties Properties plc, Great Portland Estates plc, Hammerson plc, Intu Properties plc, Land Securities plc, St Modwen Properties plc, Segro plc, Shaftesbury plc and Workspace Group plc.
Under the 2004 PSP 25% of awards subject to the TSR target vest for median performance over the three-year performance period increasing to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
Median performance under the 2014 PSP results in 22.5% of the award subject to the TSR target test vesting with full vesting still requiring upper quartile performance.
For awards granted up to 2013 if the Groups NAV performance matches that of the median performing property in the Index over the three-year performance period 25% of awards subject to the NAV target vest.
Vesting increases on a sliding scale to full vesting for out-performing the median performing property by 5% per annum.
For awards granted in 2014 and beyond, median performance results in 22.5% of the award subject to the TPR target vesting.
This increases to 75% vesting for outperforming the median by 2.5% per annum with full vesting being achieved for 5% per annum outperformance of the median.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the extent of vesting in the event that it feels that performance against either measure of performance is inconsistent with underlying financial performance.
For awards granted under the 2014 PSP in 2014 and beyond, at least the after tax number of vested shares must be retained for a minimum holding period of two years.
Share option schemes Disclosure relating to a share option scheme in which the Directors do not participate is given in note 13 on page 132.
GOVERNANCE 101 Deferred bonus shares Details of the deferred bonus shares held by the Directors are given in table 3.
The shareholding guideline in place at the year-end was 200% of salary for the CEO and 125% of salary for other Directors.
Details of non-executive Directors shareholdings are given on page 79.
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Derwent London on 31 December 2008 compared to that of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
This index has been chosen by the Committee as it is considered the most appropriate benchmark against which to assess the relative performance of the Company for this purpose.
The market price of the 5p ordinary shares at 30 December 2016 was 27.72 2015: 36.72.
During the year, they traded in a range between 22.57 and 33.96 2015: 30.02 and 38.80.
GOVERNANCE 103 Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 2016 2015 % change Chief Executive 000 Salary 638.0 619.5 3.0 Benefits 215.4 205.2 5.0 Bonus 222.5 690.0 67.8 Average employee 000 Salary 70.6 66.8 5.7 Benefits 16.3 13.6 19.9 Bonus 23.3 23.0 1.3 The table above shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year compared to that for an average employee.
Relative importance of the spend on pay 2016 2015 % change Staff costs m 24.5 24.0 2.1 Distributions to shareholders m 49.7 45.0 10.4 1 Net asset value m 3,932 3,923 0.23 1 The net asset value of the Group is shown for both years as it is the primary measure by which investors measure the success of the Group.
Statement of shareholder voting At the Companys 2016 AGM, the report of the Remuneration Committee received the following votes from shareholders: Annual report on remuneration 2016 AGM m % Votes cast in favour 83.2 95.5 Votes cast against 3.9 4.5 Total votes cast 87.1 Votes withheld 4.3 The Directors remuneration policy was not voted on at the 2016 AGM.
The disclosures on Directors remuneration in tables 1 to 4 on pages 96 to 101 have been audited as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Claudia I. Arney Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
