110 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration report contains details of the Directors remuneration policy that will govern the Companys futureremuneration payments.
The policy below sets out the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting subjectonly to minor updating to assist understanding.
The policy part of the remuneration report is displayed on the Companys website, at www.
co. uk investors governance  Executive Director remuneration Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process Fixed remuneration Base salary Reviewed by the Committee at least annually and assessed having regard to Company To provide a market competitive performance, individual responsibilities, ination, aswell as salary levels in comparable salary which takes into account organisations particularly within the listed property sector andtaking account of salary individual responsibilities policywithin the restof theGroup.
andattracts and retains talent in the labourmarket in which theExecutive isemployed.
Benets Benets principally comprise life insurance, health insurance, private healthcare To provide benets that are subscriptions, travel expenses and membership subscriptions.
Executive Directors may valued by the recipient and are be provided with a company car or company car allowance.
It is not the Companys appropriately competitive.
current practice to provide Executive Directors with a company car or a company car allowance.
Other benets may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benets package is appropriately competitive and reects individual circumstances.
Benets are reviewed annually and their value isnot pensionable.
Pension All Executive Directors receive a contribution to their personal pension planor receive To provide a framework to save acash equivalent.
This cash equivalent is not treated assalary for the purposes for retirement that is appropriately ofdetermining bonus orincentive awards.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 111 The Companys policy is to provide remuneration packages that fairly reward the Executive Directors for the contribution they have made tothe business and to ensure that the packages are appropriately competitive to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and Senior Managers of the right calibre.
The policy is to align the directors interests with those of shareholders and to incentivise the directors to meet the Companys financial and strategic priorities by making a significant proportion of remuneration performance related.
The Companys strategic objectives are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 74.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy outlined in the table below is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promoteexcessive risk-taking: Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome Individual and Company performances are considerations ofthereview.
In the normal course of events, increases in the base salaries will not exceed the average increasefor employees.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of market alignment to around mid-market levels of comparable organisations particularly within thelistedproperty sector and individual circumstances such as: increase in scope and responsibility: and to reect the individuals development and performance in the role e. g. foranew appointmentwherebase salary may be increased overtime ratherthanset directly atthelevelofthe previous incumbentormarket level.
The Committee is, however, mindful of the need to treat comparisons withcaution toavoid anupward ratchet of remuneration levels.
The 2016 17 annual salaries for the Executive Directors are set outinthe Annual report on remuneration on page 99.
Set at a level which the Committee considers: Not applicable.
appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies ofa similar size and complexity particularly within the listed property sector : and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on the role  such asrelocation.
benefit values vary year on year depending on premiums and, therefore, the maximum value is the cost of the provision of these benets.
However, the aggregate value of contractual and non-contractual benets received by each Executive Director based onthe value included in the individuals annual P11D tax calculation shall not exceed 100,000 p. a. withthis maximum increasing annually at the rate of RPI.
The contribution is a maximum of 25%.
The current Executive Directors as at 1 April 2016 receive acontributionorcash equivalent equalto 20% of base salary.
Governance 112 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process Variable remuneration Annual Bonus Plan The Annual Bonus Plan isreviewed annually at the start of the financial year to ensure Links reward to the annual bonus opportunity: performance measures and weightings are appropriate and performance targets, which are set continue tosupport theCompanys strategy.
at the beginning of the financial The bonus is paid in cash following the end of the financial year.
year in line with the Companys strategy.
Ensures an alignment between the operation of the Companys remuneration policy and financial measures whilst also ensuring additional operational measures are targeted to encourage a holistic approach to performance.
Ongoing Performance shares LTIP and Matching shares SMP under the Long-Term Incentive Plan The 2010 Plan was approved by shareholders in July 2010.
The 2010 Plan has Rewards and retains twoelements: Executivesaligning them withshareholder interests LTIP: and overalonger time frame.
Ensures an alignment between LTIP the operation of the Companys Participants are eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares or nil remuneration policy and the priceoptions Performance shares.
Companys KPIs of achieving SMP sustained NAV growth, above Participants may annually purchase or pledge shares already owned in the Company benchmark totalpropertyreturns Investment shares up to a value of one-third of basic salary in return for which they and superior shareholder returns.
receive a conditional allocation of shares as a matching award Matching share award.
General terms Investment shares will remain registered in the name of the holder with full voting and dividend rights.
The SMP award consists of a conditional allocation of shares worth up to three times theequivalent oftheamount so invested or pledged.
Awards may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
An award may, at the discretion of the Committee, include the right to receive cash or shares on vesting equal in value to the dividends payable on such number of shares subject to the award which vest, fortheperiod between grant and vesting.
If Investment shares are disposed of, then the corresponding conditional Matching shareawards willlapse.
Quantum The Committee reviews the quantum of awards annually.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 113 Maximum opportunity Performance metrics The maximum bonus is 200% of base salary.
The Companys At least 75% of the bonus willbe linked to key financial current practice is to award bonusesof no morethan 150% measures, with the balance linked to personalobjectives.
of base salary, and to make awards in excess ofthis amount The performance metrics are set by the Committee each only in exceptional circumstances.
The performance period for the Annual Bonus Plan made one bonus payment above thenormal level of award targets is linked to the Companys nancialyear.
for achievement against personal objectives in the past ten The Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and years.
Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations or set different measures if events occur which cause itto of personal misconduct and or where accounts or information determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong the amendment is required so that theconditions achieve and the bonuspaid was higher than should have been their original purpose and are notmaterially less difficult thecase.
The target bonus is 75% of base salary.
Further details on the measures for the financial year2016 17 Threshold bonus is 0% of base salary.
are set out inthe Annual report on remuneration on page 99.
Performance is assessed over not less than a three year LTIP performance period against the following metrics: TSR, NAV Up to 200% of salary.
SMP Up to 100% of salary Investment shares of up to one-third These measures apply to the LTIP and the SMP award.
The performance metrics are set by the Remuneration For future awards, subject to clawback and malus provisions, Committee each year.
for all employees in situations of personal misconduct and or The Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and where accountsor information relevant to performance are or set different measures if events occur which cause it to shown to be materially wrongand vesting was higher than determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and should havebeen thecase.
the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve The threshold vesting is 20% of awards with straight-line their original purpose and arenot materially less difficult vesting to100% for maximumperformance.
Further details on the measures for 2016 17 are setout in the Annual report on remuneration on page 100.
Governance 114 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process All-employee share plans Encourages Executive The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP under which all employees,  to acquire including Executive Directors, may be awarded free shares and may purchase shares shares in order to increasethe which can be matched on a two for one basis.
The Companys current practice is to alignment of interestswith operate partnership and matching shares only.
If the shares are held in a trust for at least shareholders overthe longer term.
three years and the employee does not leave the Company during that period, then the matched shares may be retained by the individual subject to some relief against income tax and national insurance charges.
Dividends are also paid directly to participants on all plan shares.
In 2010, shareholders approved a Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE for all employees which isnot currently operated but which might be utilised in the future.
Under the SAYE, participants which may include Executive Directors may make monthly contributions over a savings period linked to the grant of an option with an exercise price which may be at a discount of up to 20% ofthe market value of the underlying shares at grant.
Awards under the SIP and SAYE may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation ofsharecapital.
Shareholding policy To ensure that Executive Directors Executive Directors are expected to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary interests are aligned with those of shares in the Company equivalent in value to no less than 100% of base salary.
shareholders over a longer time horizon.
Notes to the Future Policy Table 1.
Performance measures and targets Shortand long-term performance measures have been selected by the Committee for 2016 17 in order to provide a direct connection to the Companys strategy by being linked to the key fundamental performance indicators as set out below: the Companys TPR Capital growth performance is measured against the performance of a relevant IPD index to reect the Companys operations: NAV targets are set by reference to internal forecasts to ensure focus on sustained asset growth: and the Companys TSR performance is measured against the performance of an appropriate comparative Index selected by the Committee to ensure superior shareholder returns.
The Committee regularly reviews the TSR and TPR Capital growth comparators to ensure that they remain appropriate theTPR comparator group was adjusted last year and the NAV targets are set following a robust budget setting process.
The targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP SMP for 2016 17 are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 99 and 100.
The Committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity around GPEs business, disclosing capital growth, NAV and individual targets for the Annual Bonus Plan in advance would not be in the best interests of shareholders or the Company.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees of GPE are entitled to base salary and benets on the same basis, with quantum of awards being set at levels commensurate with their role.
All employees participate in an employee annual bonus plan, with quantum of awards being set at levels commensurate with their role and with performance measures, similar tothe executive scheme, based on growth of the Companys property portfolio against IPDs relevant Total Property Return Index and performance against personal objectives.
Senior managers receive LTIP and SMP awards under the 2010 Plan with quantum of awards being set at levels commensurate with their role.
All employees are eligible toparticipate in the Company SIP and the SAYE on the same terms as the Executive Directors.
Employees who joined the Company before April 2002 are members of the Companys dened benefit pension plan, and all other employees are eligible to join the Companys dened contribution pension plan and receive a contribution of up to 10% of salary.
Changes to remuneration policy from previous policy There have been no changes to the operation of the policy, maximums or performance measures in relation to the salary, annual bonus, LTIP SMP, pension or other benets.
Discretion The Committee will operate the annual bonus LTIP and SMP awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan according to their respective rules and ancillary documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans as noted in the policy table and in the recruitment remuneration and payments for loss of ofce sections as relevant.
Any use of these discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual report onremuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultations with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or waitfor shareholder approval.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors are set out on pages 102 and 104 of the Annual report on remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based ontheir original award terms, in line with the policy set out in the policy table.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 115 Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Under the SIP, maximum participation will be in line with the As is typical under HMRC-approved all-employee plans, prevailingmaximum limits set by HMRC under the relevant thereare no performance conditions attached toawards.
Under the SAYE, maximum participation will be in line with theprevailing maximum limits set by HMRC under the relevantlegislation.
Non-Executive Director remuneration Purpose and link to Performance Element strategy Operation and process Maximum opportunity metrics Fees Provide an appropriate The Chairman and the Executive Fees will be in line Not applicable.
reward to attract Directors are responsible for with marketrates for individuals with setting the remuneration of  appropriate knowledge the Non-Executive Directors, atFTSE 250 companies.
and experience to other than the Chairman whose The Articles of Association review and supportthe remuneration is determined containa limit on fees, implementation of bytheRemuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are paid The 2016 17 fee levels are set a base fee and additional fees out in the Annual report on for chairmanship of Committees remuneration on page 100. and role of Senior Independent Director.
Fees are usually reviewed annually with changes effective from 1April.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Other benets include travel, accommodation and membership subscriptions related to theCompanys business.
