96 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Directors remuneration report Dear fellow shareholder Executive reward is closely linked to the Groups key performance Welcome to the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
indicators to ensure effective alignment between the Executive The key objectives for the Committee are to ensure the Update image Directors and our shareholders.
Executive Directors are appropriately incentivised and Jonathan Short remuneration arrangements are fully aligned with the Chairman of the Remuneration Companys strategy to generate superior portfolio and Committee shareholder returns.
As outlined on pages 20 and 21, we measure our absolute and relative performance using a small number of key Remuneration Committee and advisers performance indicators: Remuneration Committee members and attendance byothers Relative Total Property Return TPR : Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR : and Chairman 6 meetings Absolute net asset per share growth NAV growth.
Jonathan Short Members Over the medium-term, we aim to outperform Elizabeth Holden our benchmarks.
Jonathan Nicholls In attendance Executive reward linked to the Groups Martin Scicluna performance for shareholders under the 2010 Toby Courtauld Long-Term Incentive Plan the2010Plan The 2010 Plan uses all of our key performance indicators Part attendance to measure the Groups performance being TPR, TSR and NAV growth.
Under the Groups 2010 Plan, the level of Our approach reward tothe Executive Directors and senior management During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised depends on the performance of the Group over a threethree independent Non-Executive Directors, Elizabeth year period.
I am pleased to report that 100% of the TSR Holden, Jonathan Nicholls and myself.
and NAV elements of the Groups main 2012 LTIP and SMP awards vested, reecting the underlying strong financial The Committee was advised during the year by FIT performance of the Company as demonstrated through Remuneration Consultants FIT Rem as independent the trend of the Companys annual KPIs of TSR and NAV remuneration consultants who were appointed by the growth.
TSR for the three year period to 6 June 2015 was Committee in August 2014.
The NAV uplift for the three years to 31 March 2015 meetings and provides advice on remuneration for was 76%.
We also exceeded the Total Property Return TPR the Executive Directors, analysis on all elements of the benchmark for the three year period to 31 March 2015 by remuneration policy and regular market and best practice 0.2 percentage points resulting in a vesting level of 42% for updates.
FIT Rem reports directly to the Committee.
the main LTIP and SMP awards.
This represents a lower level Toby Courtauld, the Chief Executive, provided input with than for the three year period to 31 March 2014 82% as a regard to the achievement of personal objectives for the result of our lower relative income return due to the scale other Executive Directors and attends discussions on of our development activities and greater rate of capital remuneration including on appointments and promotions growth in 2015 for secondary properties compared to our as considered appropriate by the Committee.
No director or employee is involved in discussions on their As at the date of this report, based on the latest information own pay.
available as at 31 March 2016, forthe June 2013 LTIP and SMP awards, with continued strong NAV growth resulting in an uplift for the three years to 31 March 2016 of 90%, we expect 100% of the NAV hurdle to be met.
We also exceeded the TPR benchmark for the three year period to 31 March 2016 by 0.2 percentage points, in line with our outperformance over the prior three year period see above, resulting in a vesting level of 37% due to our associated percentile ranking.
However, following a fiderating of the share prices of GPE and other London focused property companies relative to the broader FTSE 350 Real Estate sector over the last year in part due to adverse
