DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Reflecting performance in remuneration Remuneration Committee members Gwyn Burr Chairman Terry Duddy Judy Gibbons David Tyler Remuneration review in 2016 Dear Shareholders The Committee kept abreast of governance and wider stakeholder On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to views on executive pay and followed closely the deliberations of present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended the Executive Remuneration Working Group on opportunities 31 December 2016. for reform of long-term incentives.
The Committee consulted with a number of its major shareholders on a proposal to Remuneration outcome: AIP introduce a restricted stock plan in place of the LTIP.
Such a plan You will have read elsewhere in the Annual Report that the would simplify the Companys remuneration structure, reduce Company has delivered another strong financial performance the maximum earnings of top management from long-term in 2016.
Earnings Per Share EPS has grown to 29.2p, up 9% on remuneration and move away from the LTIP with its inherent the prior year.
The Companys Total Property Return TPR of difficulties of setting appropriate targets.
No performance 5.7% is again expected to exceed the benchmark industry returns measures would have attached to grants or vestings of such awards.
EPS and TPR form the main components of the annual bonus AIP, although no AIP payments for TPR are made until Although the proposal received support from a number of the actual external benchmark data becomes available and, on that shareholders, others were not convinced of the arguments for basis, estimated information has been used for reporting purposes.
The Committee considered other options for restructuring AIP is also payable in respect of the growth in like-for-like net the long-term incentive arrangements but concluded that, it rental income and reduction in the cost income ratio.
The final would not introduce such a scheme at this time.
Consequently, component of AIP is personal performance and the average payout the long-term incentive awards that will be made in 2017 will be for this will lead to a final estimated AIP payout level of 70%.
issued under the Companys existing LTIP rules and at the Annual This is lower than the average payout for 2015 which, following General Meeting AGM in April, a new set of plan rules will be confirmation of the TPR information for that year, showed a presented to shareholders for approval.
These new rules are largely payout level of 77%.
The Committee did not exercise any discretion consistent with the current rules but include some updates to to adjust performance targets.
reflect best practice developments in this area.
Further details of the plan rules are set out in the Notice of Meeting of AGM.
Of Remuneration outcome: LTIP particular note is the introduction of a one-year holding period on In April 2016, the 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP award top of the four-year performance period.
vested and details of this are in table 81 on page 108.
There was a partial vesting under the absolute Net Asset Value performance measure although there was no vesting under the TPR or Total Shareholder Return TSR measures.
The 2013 LTIP which will vest in April 2017 is expected to vest partially under both the TPR and EPS measures and you can read details of the expected level of vesting in table 67 on page 100, as both of these measures are estimated for inclusion in the single figure table 62 on page 97.
78 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT A further resolution will be presented to shareholders at the With effect from 1 April 2017, the other three Executive Director AGM seeking approval of the Remuneration Policy which starts base salaries will increase by approximately 2.5%, which is slightly at page 80.
The previous policy was reviewed in light of the latest below those of colleagues generally.
Remuneration Reporting Guidance from the GC 100 and Investor The Committee spent some time reviewing the performance Group and the table at the bottom of this letter summarises the measures to apply to the LTIP awards that will be made in 2017 and main changes.
The Policy remains largely unchanged and simply made a number of adjustments, details of which you can find on reflects developments in best practice and clarifies the Policys pages 113 to 114. operation in some areas.
Conclusion 2017 Pay approach I hope that you will agree with the Committee that the outturn for Over recent years, the Premium Outlets business has become Executive Directors reflects the performance of the Company and increasingly significant in the Companys portfolio.
We have that the new Remuneration Policy, which is largely consistent with made significant additional investments in both Value Retail the Policy that has been operating in the Company for many years, and invested in the VIA Outlets Fund.
Responsibility for these remains the right one for your Company.
investments and for the management of the Companys investment in the Premium Outlets business has been taken on by our Chief I look forward to your support at our AGM in April.
The Committee reviewed his responsibilities and considered whether an appropriate Gwyn Burr salary increase to reflect those extra responsibilities should be implemented.
Following that review, the Committee has decided to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee increase Timon Drakesmiths salary by 39,000 to 457,000.
Even with this increase, the Committee is satisfied that his package is no higher than median against comparative Chief Financial Officer data even with no uplift for those additional responsibilities.
The following is a summary of the changes made to the current Remuneration Policy approved in 2014 which form part of the new Remuneration Policy to be voted on at the 2017 AGM.
Salary and benefits: No change to the maximum limits payable to Executive Directors but the maximum limits will now increase annually in line with UK CPI Pension: the Companys defined benefit pension scheme is now closed to further accruals and therefore the only future pension benefit available to Executive Directors is the pension allowance AIP: The discretion for the Remuneration Committee to increase the maximum potential bonus payable under the AIP to 300% has been removed.
Changes to AIP and DBSS rules to extend malus and clawback provisions to apply in cases of reputational damage.
LTIP: New LTIP rules include the introduction of a one-year holding period for shares vesting following the four-year performance period, delays to vesting during any ongoing disciplinary investigation and malus and clawback provisions extended to apply in cases of reputational damage.
Share Ownership Guidelines: Share Ownership Guidelines for the Executive Directors increased to 250% of base salary Commitment given to disclose on a timely basis the remuneration package agreed with a new Executive Director The notice period for a new Executive Director amended so that the period can be less than 12 months notice but generally no more than on either side Clarification of when the Company may pay legal fees in connection with an Executive Directors employment or remuneration The addition of a maximum total payment of 5,000 for ancillary or non-material benefits in connection with the termination of employment of an Executive Director to cover such items as a computer or mobile phone HAMMERSON.
COM 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY Considerations taken into account when setting Remuneration Policy Voting on remuneration at the AGM Chart 51 Three votes on remuneration matters will be presented at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM : a binding vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the policy section of this report, an advisory vote Institutional investors and shareholders views on the Implementation Report section of this report and a binding vote on new rules for the Long Term Changing market practice Incentive Plan.
Business objectives Risk policies Explanation of our remuneration approach The overall objectives of the Remuneration Committee Executive motivation Committee are to determine an appropriate remuneration policy that: aligns remuneration with strategy to drive the long-term success of the Company: ensures that the Company can continue to attract, retain and motivate quality leaders: Remuneration avoids paying more than the Committee considers necessary.
Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy is shaped by the following underlying principles: Chart 50 Employment conditions in the Group Recruitment market conditions Alignment with strategy and business objectives Legislation and regulation Alignment with shareholder interests Culture, values and governance Long-term success of the Company Sustainability strategy including Consistency and transparency environmental and social factors Reward performance with competitive remuneration Support Company values Remuneration Policy Fixed remuneration Short-term incentives Long-term incentives 80 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out below Policy will take effect from the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 25 April 2017, subject to approval by the shareholders at that meeting.
It is intended that this Policy will remain applicable for the following three years.
However, the Committee will keep a watching brief to ensure that it remains appropriate in the broader remuneration landscape.
The Committee has received clear advice that formal limits are required in the Policy and has retained sufficient flexibility to enable it to continue to act in the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The limits will not lead to pressure on reward levels and the Committee is satisfied that it has adopted a suitably conservative approach to date and will continue to do so.
Table 52 Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Fixed remuneration Salary Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures Ensure the Company continues to attract and retain quality Not applicable.
To recognise accountabilities, skills, experience and value.
Operation Maximum limit Paid monthly in cash.
The base salary for any existing Executive Director shall Reviewed but not necessarily increased annually by the Committee.
not exceed 850,000 or the equivalent if denominated in a In undertaking reviews, the Committee will take into account a different currency with this limit increasing annually at the variety of factors including Company and individual performance, rate of UK CPI.
market conditions, the level of salary increases awarded to other employees of the Group, and a comparison against both a relevant property peer group and a group of entities of comparable size selected by the Committee currently the largest REITs and an appropriate pan-sector group of companies with a comparable market capitalisation.
The Committee is aware of the limitations of benchmarking and of the need to avoid inflationary upward trends.
However, benchmarking is considered at both base salary and total remuneration level, and the Committee generally considers that pay will be within a range of - 10% of median benchmark but also takes into account such other factors as it considers appropriate and is not constrained by this default.
COM 81 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued Table 52 continued Remuneration Policy Table continued Fixed remuneration continued Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures Provide a range of benefits in line with general practice.
Ensure the Company continues to attract and retain quality leaders.
Operation Maximum limit Executive Directors may receive such contractual and nonThe aggregate value of such benefits received by each contractual benefits as the Committee considers to be appropriate Executive Director based on the value included in the and consistent with market practice in the relevant market in individuals annual P11D tax calculation or a broadly which the Executive Director is based.
equivalent basis for a non-UK based Executive Director These benefits currently include a car allowance, enhanced sick shall not exceed 100,000 or the equivalent if denominated pay, private medical insurance for the Executive Director and in a different currency with this maximum increasing their spouse life partner, permanent health insurance and life annually at the rate of UK CPI.
In the case of employees of Hammerson France, health In addition to the benefits outlined, where Executive and life assurance mutuelle and prvoyance are provided under a Directors are relocated to work in a different country French collective scheme and financed by employee and employer the Company may pay global relocation support up to a social contributions.
maximum of 400,000 or the equivalent if denominated Benefits additionally available to employees of Hammerson in a different currency: and or provide tax equalisation France currently include a seniority allowance and an employers arrangements in relation to all elements of remuneration.
contribution of up to 2,000 per annum to an employee savings scheme.
Whilst the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal sense, Executive Directors can participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, where appropriate, with a family member, whether paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies with any tax liability met on the Executive Directors behalf.
In addition, Executive Directors will be paid any statutory entitlements.
82 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Table 52 continued Remuneration Policy Table continued Fixed remuneration continued Pension Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures Provide market competitive retirement benefits.
Operation Maximum limit Executive Directors may receive a non-contributory allowance Pension Choice is limited to an aggregate limit of 30% of base Pension Choice to be paid as, or as a combination of: i an salary.
No elements of remuneration other than base salary employer contribution to the Companys defined contribution are pensionable.
pension plan: ii a payment to a personal pension plan: or iii a salary supplement.
The Company keeps the pension arrangements for Executive Directors under review to ensure that they remain appropriate and may decide to amend the way in which pension benefits are provided but subject to the stated maximum limit.
The Company will also provide any additional pension benefit required by local legal obligations or implemented pursuant to collective employment arrangements in any relevant jurisdiction, up to applicable statutory limits.
This currently includes participation by Jean-Philippe Mouton in a legacy collective pension arrangement.
The percentage of base salary as a pension allowance may differ between Executive Directors.
Specifically, David Atkins and Peter Cole receive 30% of base salary which was agreed to ensure that they were not materially adversely affected by closure of the defined benefit scheme in which they participated.
Timon Drakesmith receives 20% of base salary.
Since the previous Policy was approved, the Companys defined benefit scheme has closed to further accrual.
The participation of David Atkins and Peter Cole in this scheme is therefore now to the extent of accrued benefits only.
COM 83 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued Table 52 continued Remuneration Policy Table continued Variable, performance-related remuneration Annual Bonus Annual Incentive Plan or AIP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures Align Executive Director remuneration with annual financial The annual bonus operates by reference to financial and and Company strategic targets as determined by the Companys personal performance measures assessed over one year.
The Business Plan for the relevant financial year.
weighting of the financial measures will be at least 60% of the To differentiate appropriately, in the view of the Committee, on total opportunity.
It is expected that the financial performance the basis of performance.
measures will be: Partial award in shares aligns interests with shareholders and Adjusted Earnings Per Share.
Growth in like-for-like Net Rental Income.
Operation Awards are subject to continued employment, save in the leaver These measures are aligned to the Companys financial KPIs, as explained in the Companys Strategic Report, and reflect circumstances described in the Payment for loss of office section of this Policy.
effective delivery of the business model.
The Committee reserves the right to change, remove or include these or such Awards are paid in a mix of cash and deferred shares, with the deferred shares element being at least 40% of the total award.
other measures as it considers to be an appropriate means of assessing the performance of the Executive Directors.
The level of vesting at entry threshold performance for each performance measure is set annually, but will be between 0% and 25% of maximum with vesting normally then being on a straight-line or stepped basis to the target level set for full vesting.
On-target and maximum performance levels will also be set.
Recovery or withholding The Committee retains discretion to amend the vesting level Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of personal up or down where it considers it to be appropriate, but not misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to so as to exceed the maximum bonus potential and will fully performance are shown to be materially wrong and the bonus disclose the exercise of any discretion in the Implementation paid was higher than should have been the case and or where the Report that follows such exercise of discretion.
individuals actions contributed to a significant adverse impact on Once set, performance measures and targets will generally the reputation of the Company or Group.
remain unchanged for the year, except targets may be adjusted The recovery and withholding provisions also apply to the by the Committee to take account of significant transactions deferred element of the AIP delivered under the DBSS.
such as acquisitions and or disposals or in other exceptional circumstances such as timing of transactions that have a material impact on Business Plan.
Maximum limit The maximum bonus opportunity is 200% of base salary.
Deferred element of AIP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures The AIP award is split between cash and a substantial deferred No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares award of shares which aligns interests with shareholders and element of the AIP as these represent previously earned supports retention.
Operation Maximum limit The deferred shares element is currently awarded under the Awards under the DBSS are granted to deliver the deferred Deferred Bonus Share Scheme DBSS but may be delivered element of the annual bonus, and so no separate maximum under a different plan with equivalent terms.
The deferral period is currently two years, and may not be shorter.
The deferred shares are subject to the leaver conditions as set out in the Payment for loss of office section of this Policy.
The awards are typically structured as nil-cost share options but can take other forms such as a conditional award of shares.
Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the period from grant until the vesting date, delivered as additional shares when the shares are transferred to the participant.
84 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Table 52 continued Remuneration Policy Table continued Variable, performance-related remuneration continued Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures Incentivise the creation of long-term returns for shareholders.
Choice of Performance measures may consistof a combination performance measures is determined by those drivers that deliver value to of financial and non-financial measures to align shareholders in the longer term.
It is expected that the Aligninterests of Executive Directors with shareholders and support performance measures will be: retention.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share Total Property Return Total Shareholder Return The level of vesting at entry threshold performance for each performance measure will be set at between 0-25% of maximum with no more than 25% vesting at threshold performance.
Vesting between entry, threshold and maximum levels will be on a linear or stepped basis.
Minimum performance period of four years.
A one-year holding period for awards to be made under the new LTIP rules.
The Committee retains the discretion prior to making the award to amend the performance measures, conditions used, weighting, and performance measurement periods.
Once set the Committee may only amend the performance conditions in respect of outstanding awards in the event that exceptional circumstances occur which make it appropriate to do so, provided that the amended condition is not, in the view of the Committee, materially less difficult to satisfy.
Operation Maximum limit Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an annual award under A discretionary annual award up to a value of 200% the LTIP.
If the Remuneration Policy and new LTIP rules are approved by of base salary.
shareholders at the 2017 AGM, future awards will be made under the new The Committee reserves the power to increase LTIP rules.
the maximum award to 300% of base salary in exceptional circumstances.
The extent of vesting is Awards are subject to continued employment, save in the leaver determined by the performance conditions.
circumstances described in the Payment for loss of office section of this Policy.
Awards are typically structured as nil-cost share options but can take other forms such as a conditional award of shares.
Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the period from grant until the vesting date or where a holding period applies, to the end of the holding period, delivered as additional shares when the shares are transferred to the participant.
The Committee has discretion to settle awards as a cash payment in place of the transfer of shares.
Recovery or withholding Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of personal misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong and vesting was higher than should have been the case and or where the individual has contributed to a significant adverse impact on the reputation of the Company or Group.
COM 85 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued Table 52 continued Remuneration Policy Table continued Variable, performance-related remuneration continued All-employee arrangements Purpose Performance measures In order to be able to offer participation in these plans to employees Not generally applicable.
An award of free shares generally, the Company is either required by the relevant UK and French under the SIP can be made to all participants and legislation to allow Executive Directors to participate on the same terms, or may be subject to a Company performance target.
Operation Maximum limit Executive Directors are eligible to participate in all-employee incentive Maximum participation levels for Executive arrangements on the same terms as other employees.
This currently Directors are the same as apply to all employees comprises the following arrangements: being, under the current arrangements, as set by Eligible UK employees may participate in the Sharesave and Share relevant UK and French legislation.
All employees of Hammerson France are eligible to participate in a profit share plan, which rewards performance against such measures as the Committee considers to be appropriate.
For details regarding remuneration of other Company employees, please refer to the Employee pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group section of this Policy.
The Payment for loss of office section of this Policy contains details of the impact of a change of control on awards made under AIP, the DBSS and the LTIP.
The Committee will determine components of remuneration for new Executive Directors, as outlined in the Recruitment section of this Policy.
Performance targets for the AIP and LTIP are set by the Committee taking into consideration a number of factors including alignment to strategy, the Business Plan, need for consistency between years, changes to the Groups portfolio, market conditions and need to ensure that measures are sufficiently challenging but also provide motivation to succeed.
It is a provision of this Policy that all pre-existing obligations and commitments that were entered into prior to this Policy taking effect and or prior to an individual joining the Board will continue and can be honoured on their existing terms.
In particular, these may include continued participation in legacy defined benefit pension arrangements and the retention of outstanding awards under the LTIP together with other obligations and commitments under service contracts, incentive schemes, pension and benefit plans.
This includes payments from any outstanding awards under the LTIP or other incentive plans provided they were consistent with the Policy at the time they were awarded.
If the new rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan are not approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, the Company will consult with shareholders about appropriate alternatives.
A summary of key changes to the Policy is includedin the Committee Chairmans letter.
86 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Company may provide a new Executive Director with global Share ownership guidelines relocation support and or tax equalisation arrangements as set out The Chief Executive and all other Executive Directors are expected in the Remuneration Policy Table although, to date, the Company to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the has not had occasion to do so.
Company equivalent to no less than 250% of base salary increased from 150% for the Chief Executive and 100% for other Executive For a new Executive Director who is an internal appointment, Directors.
Executive Directors are normally required to achieve the Company may also continue to honour commitments made the minimum shareholding requirement within seven years of the prior to the appointment as Executive Director even if those date of appointment.
commitments are otherwise inconsistent with the Policy in force when the commitments are honoured.
Any relevant existing Shares to be included in the calculation are: incentive plan participation may either continue on its original Shares held beneficially by the Executive Director and the terms or the performance conditions and or measures may be Executive Directors spouse life partner.
amended to reflect the individuals new role, as the Committee Shares held under the DBSS or LTIP that are exercisable on a considers appropriate.
Compensation for variable remuneration forfeited Shares held under the LTIP that have vested but are subject to by a new Executive Director the one-year holding period on a net of tax NI basis.
The Company may, where appropriate, compensate a new Shares held by the Executive Director under the Share Executive Director for variable remuneration that has been Incentive Plan.
forfeited as a result of accepting the appointment with the An annual calculation as a percentage of salary is made against Company.
Where the Company compensates a new Executive the guidelines for each Executive Director as at 31 December each Director in this way, it will seek to do so under the terms of the year based on the closing middle market quotation of a share price Companys existing variable remuneration arrangements as set out on the last business day in December.
The closing exchange rate in the Remuneration Policy Table.
The Company may compensate as at 31 December is used for Executive Directors whose salary on terms that are more bespoke than the existing arrangements is denominated in a currency other than sterling.
No formal where the Committee considers that to be appropriate.
The sanctions exist for non-compliance.
Committee may also make awards under a long-term incentive scheme that does not require shareholder approval if it falls within Recruitment Listing Rule 9.4.
2 an arrangement established for a director specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an individual.
In such instances, the Company will disclose a Statement of Principles full explanation of the detail and rationale for such recruitmentThe Company will pay total remuneration for new related compensation.
In making such awards the Committee Executive Directors that enables the Company to attract will seek to take into account the nature including whether appropriately skilled and experienced individuals, but is awards are cash or share-based, vesting period and performance not, in the opinion of the Committee, excessive.
measures and or conditions for any remuneration forfeited by the The Company will not pay new Executive Directors individual when leaving a previous employer.
Where such awards any inducements to join the Company over and above had outstanding performance or service conditions which are buy-outs of existing forfeited awards, as outlined in this not substantially completed the Company will generally impose section of the Policy.
In exceptional cases, the Committee may relax those requirements where it considers this to be in The Company will disclose to the market on its website the interests of shareholders, for example through a significant in a timely manner the basis of a package agreed with a discount to the face value of the replacement awards.
Approach and limits Annual salary, pension, contractual and non-contractual benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements including performance measures and or conditions and maximum award levels as described in the Remuneration Policy Table will be the starting point for the structure of any package.
The level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director will not exceed the maximum AIP and LTIP limits that can be awarded in line with the principles set out in the Remuneration Policy Table, with the exception of any compensation for variable remuneration forfeited.
The limits contained within the Remuneration Policy Table for base salary do not apply to a new Executive Director either on joining or for any subsequent salary review within the period of this Policy, although the Committee would seek to avoid exceeding those limits in practice.
COM 87 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued Service agreements for a new Executive Director The Committees approach is for the service agreements of new Executive Directors to have due regard to market practice at the date of appointment, the Companys current Policy and the service agreements in place for existing Executive Directors.
Table 53 The key termination provisions for service agreements for newly appointed Executive Directors will be: Notice period No greater than 12 months notice either notice to or from the Executive Director for UK-based Directors.
For non UK-based Directors, contracts are designed to meet local laws and have a similar overall effect in terms of the potential cost to the Group.
A longer period of notice from the Company may apply to new appointments for a limited time if the Committee considers this is appropriate, but would then reduce to no more than 12 months.
Post-termination Compensation in respect of restrictive covenants will be paid as required for enforceability reasons under restrictions applicable local statutory or collective bargaining requirements.
Appropriate post-termination restrictions to protect the Groups confidential information, its customer and supplier connections and or to prevent poaching of its senior workforce will be included.
Payment in lieu of Employment can be terminated by the Company with immediate effect for any reason by making a payment notice PILON in lieu of the outstanding period of notice PILON.
The PILON comprises base pay, and the value of employers pension contributions, medical insurance and car allowance.
The Company will have discretion to make any PILON on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
No PILON will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Expiry date There will be no fixed expiry date.
The appointment of new Executive Directors will be terminable in accordance with the notice period.
Change of control and The Executive Director will not have a right to liquidated damages, whether triggered by a change of control of liquidated damages the Company or otherwise.
The terms summarised above will be subject to any local statutory or collective bargaining requirements where applicable.
For treatment of incentive awards in connection with termination please see the Payment for loss of office section of this Policy.
88 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Payment for loss of office Committee considerations on leaving office The Committee considers the circumstances under which an Executive Director is leaving the Companys employment.
In circumstances where a Director is terminated for cause, the Committee typically has limited discretion in connection with remuneration payments.
In other circumstances a range of discretions is available to the Committee The following tables set out a summary of obligations contained in the Executive Directors service agreements which could give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments for loss of office.
Table 54 Service agreements and notice periods for current Executive Directors Peter Cole David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Date of service contract 28 February 2002 11 January 2008 18 January 2011 Expiry date Rolling service contracts with no fixed expiry date.
Notice period 12 months notice to the Executive Director and 6 months notice 12 months notice both from from the Executive Director.
and to the Executive Director.
Termination payments: Payment in lieu of notice Employment can be terminated by the Company with immediate Employment can be terminated PILON effect by making a lump sum PILON in respect of the outstanding by the Company with immediate notice period comprising base salary, the value of contractual effect by making a PILON in benefits and a bonus based on the Executive Directors average respect of the outstanding bonus over the previous three years but pro-rated to reflect the part notice period comprising base of the bonus year actually worked.
salary and the value of benefits in respect of pension, private medical insurance and car allowance.
The Company has discretion to make any PILON on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
Liquidated damages Change Entitlement to liquidated damages calculated on the same basis as calculated for the Executive of control Directors PILON if i the Company terminates the employment in breach of the service agreement or ii the Executive Director terminates the employment because of a fundamental breach by the Company or iii within 12 months after a change of control, the Company terminates the employment in each case save where such termination is for gross misconduct or long-term sickness or incapacity.
Liquidated damages are subject to deductions for new earnings.
The service agreements of David Atkins and Peter Cole provide that the relevant Executive Director will be eligible to be considered for payment of an award under the AIP provided that the Director has been employed through the entirety of the bonus year, even if no longer employed at the payment date.
Where the Executive Director has been employed for only part of the bonus year, he will be eligible for consideration for payment of a discretionary bonus, but on a pro-rata basis.
Other than in this respect, the treatment of leavers under the AIP, DBSS and LTIP arrangements is set out in table 56.
The Company will pay any additional statutory entitlements where applicable.
COM 89 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued Jean-Philippe Mouton has been employed by Hammerson Asset Management SAS HAM since 14 April 2003 as Divisional Director France.
Mr Mouton also holds French corporate offices in various Hammerson France entities.
He is based and works in France and, as a result, upon his appointment as an Executive Director, it was considered appropriate for him to continue to be employed under a French law-governed employment contract with HAM.
His employment contract with HAM means that French law applies to his terms and conditions of employment as Divisional Director France.
Mr Mouton entered into a separate English law letter of appointment, which governs his directorship of the Company.
His aggregate global base salary in respect of his directorship of the Company, his role as Divisional Director France and his French corporate offices is reflected in the Single Figure Table in the Implementation Report.
Table 55 Jean-Philippe Mouton Date of service agreement French employment: 25 March 2013. and appointments UK directorship: 25 March 2013.
French corporate offices as part of his role as Divisional Director France : various.
Expiry date French employment: rolling service contract with no fixed expiry date.
UK directorship: rolling service period with no fixed expiry date.
If Mr Mouton is not re-elected at the Companys Annual General Meeting, the appointment will cease automatically.
Notice period French employment: 3 months notice in the case of dismissal or resignation both notice to and from the Executive.
No notice is applicable where there is an agreed termination.
UK directorship: 3 months notice both notice to and from the Executive Director.
Termination payments Notice in respect of Entitlement to 3 months fixed and variable global remuneration.
Any PILON French employment, would be based on the fixed and variable global remuneration that he would UK directorship and have received had he continued to be actively employed during the putative French corporate notice period and would not be subject to mitigation.
offices Severance payment In the case of dismissal or agreed termination under collective bargaining arrangements, an entitlement to a severance payment equal to 25% of average global monthly contractual remuneration per year of service capped at 6 months if terminated on grounds of collective redundancy.
No severance is payable if the Executive Director resigns.
Restrictive covenants Entitlement to a monthly compensation payment equal to 30% of the basic monthly salary received in respect of his French employment for the duration of the 12-month non-competition covenant to the extent such covenant is enforced.
Notes: Globalin this context refers to the remuneration for Mr Mouton from all his positions of employment within the Group.
90 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Table 56 Annual bonus and long-term incentives The following table describes the provisions which apply to leavers who are Executive Directors and the discretions available under the AIP, DBSS and the LTIP.
Further detail as to the potential exercise of discretion by the Committee is set out in the Use of discretion section of this Policy.
Leaving reason Redundancy, Ill-health, injury, sale of Company Voluntary Termination Change of 3 2 disability Death or business Retirement resignation for cause control 1 AIP Remains eligible for bonus.
Remains eligible for full No right to No bonus Bonuses may In all cases, any Any bonus payable will be time payment of the bonus for a receive any payable.
be awarded bonus payable pro-rated unless the Committee completed performance period.
under the AIP is subject to the decides otherwise.
In addition, the Committee has Committee at the time of normal deferral discretion to make payments has discretion the change of arrangements, for any performance period not to pay a bonus control.
provided the the Committee Committee Executive determines determines Director is in otherwise, a otherwise employment bonus will be at the bonus time pro-rated.
DBSS Full vesting on normal vesting date.
Awards vest in deferred share save that the full.
element of AIP Committee has discretion to allow up to full vesting on the normal vesting date orthe Committee may accelerate vesting.
LTIP Awards remain capable of vesting, subject to the performance conditions Awards lapse, Awards lapse.
save that the subject to the Committee performance Awards will vest on normal vesting date, save that the Committee may has discretion conditions accelerate vesting.
for awards to and, unless the Unless the Committee determines otherwise, vesting will be time remain capable Committee pro-rated.
of vesting determines subject to otherwise, performance will be time conditions pro-rated.
on a time prorated basis and may accelerate vesting.
In respect of all-employee plans, including the Companys HMRC-approved, all-employee share plans, the Sharesave and the SIP, and the profit share plan for employees of Hammerson France, the Executive Directors are subject to the same leaver provisions as allother participants.
Where the date of notice and the date of cessation fall in different performance periods, the provisions relating to AIP as stated above apply in respect of the AIP award for each performance period separately.
On a corporate event affecting the Company, bonuses and awards under AIP, DBSS and the LTIP will be governed by the rules of these plans.
The information given here is for summary purposes.
Specific arrangements apply under the service agreements of David Atkins and Peter Cole as set out on page 89.
COM 91 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued Use of discretion Legal fees In exercising discretion in respect of the AIP or under the LTIP, Consistent with market practice, the Company may pay reasonable the Committee will take into account all factors it determines to legal fees and any associated tax costs on behalf of the Executive be appropriate at the relevant time including but not limited to Director for entering into a statutory settlement agreement and the duration of the Executive Directors service and its assessment may pay a contribution of up to 50,000, plus VAT, towards fees for of the contribution towards the success of the Company during outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
that period: whether the Executive Director has worked any In the case of a corporate transaction, the Company may agree to notice period or whether and if so, the extent that a PILON is pay reasonable legal fees and any associated tax costs on behalf being made: the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties and of the Executive Director for advice on the effect of the corporate continuity in the business operations of the Company: and the transaction on the Executive Directors personal position as a need to settle any claims which the Executive Director may have.
director including, where appropriate, as to the terms of their In exercising any discretion the members of the Committee will employment.
take account of their duties as Directors.
The Company may agree to pay reasonable legal fees and any Other associated tax costs on behalf of the Executive Director for advice If the Company terminates an Executive Directors employment related to any proposed changes to their terms and conditions of by reason of redundancy, the Company will make a redundancy employment during their period of employment.
payment to the Executive Director in line with any applicable On recruitment of an Executive Director, the Company may make Company redundancy policy which includes any entitlement a contribution towards legal fees in connection with agreeing to statutory redundancy pay and any applicable collective employment terms and drawing up a service contract.
Other appointments: new and existing Payment to a departing Executive Director may be made in respect of accrued benefits and accrued untaken holiday.
Executive Directors Executive Directors are able to accept, with the consent of the In connection with an Executive Director ceasing employment, Companys Board of Directors, non-executive appointments the Company may, if the Committee determines it is in the outside the Company provided that such appointments do not best interests of the Company, enter into new contractual lead to a conflict of interests on the basis that such external arrangements with the departing Executive Director including appointments can enhance their experience and skills and but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive add value to the Company.
Any fees received by an Executive covenants and or consultancy arrangements on such terms as Director for such external appointments can be retained by the it considers appropriate.
In such case, the Company will make individual except where the Executive Director is appointed as the appropriate disclosures of such terms.
If a settlement agreement is Companys representative.
entered into with the Executive Director, the Company may make payments that it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims, for example unfair dismissal, or where agreed under the settlement agreement.
This may include any entitlement to compensation in respect of statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
A departing gift may be provided and any tax liability met on the Executive Directors behalf up to a value of 5,000 plus the related taxes per Executive Director on termination of office.
The Company may agree to provide other ancillary or non-material benefits in connection with including in a defined period following termination, not exceeding a value of 5,000 in aggregate.
92 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Table 57 Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to strategy Fee levels Ensure the Company continues to attract and retain high-quality Current fees per annum are: 000 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by offering marketChairman 330 competitive fees.
Non-Executive Director 58 Senior Independent Director 10 Chair of Audit Committee 15 Audit Committee member 5 Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 Remuneration Committee member 5 Chair of Nomination Committee 0 Operation Maximum limit The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
Other NonAggregate total fees payable annually to all Non-Executive Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board on the Directors are subject to the limit as stated in the Companys recommendation of the Executive Directors.
The Fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account Committee reserves the right to provide additional fees independent advice and the time commitment required of Nonwithin the stated limit including for membership of any Executive Directors.
additional Committee the Board may establish.
Fees paid aim to be competitive with other listed companies which the Committee in the case of the Chairman and the Board in respect of Non-Executive Directors consider to be of equivalent size and complexity but are not set by reference to a prescribed benchmark.
Fees are paid monthly in arrears.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fee in respect of membership of any of the Committees.
Other Non-Executive Directors may receive additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
There is also an additional fee for the Senior Independent Director.
The level of additional fees is set to reflect the responsibilities of the role.
Other benefits Whilst the Company does not consider it to form part of There are no other benefits currently available to any of the benefits in the normal sense, Non-Executive Directors can Non-Executive Directors.
Whilst the Company does not consider participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, that reimbursing travel and accommodation expense including where appropriate, with a family member, whether paid for to the Companys London office is a benefit in the normal sense, by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
should any assessment to tax be made on such reimbursement, the A departing gift may be provided and any tax liability met Company reserves the ability to settle such liability on behalf of the on the Non-Executive Directors behalf up to a value of Non-Executive Director.
5,000 plus the related taxes per Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related on termination of office.
bonuses or participation in the Companys share plans, nor do NonExecutive Directors receive any pension benefits.
COM 93 Directors Remuneration Report: Policy continued The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the full range service agreements with the Company.
Their appointments of Company benefits offered to employees.
In addition, they are are governed by letters of appointment, which are available eligible for certain remuneration to which other employees are for inspection on request.
The letters of appointment of Nonnot eligible.
Executive Directors are reviewed by the Chairman and the Executive Directors may opt to receive a salary supplement in lieu Executive Directors every three years.
Employees may participate Appointments of Non-Executive Directors are for a term of in one of a number of pension schemes across the UK, France three years, subject to the right of either party to terminate the and Ireland.
appointment on not less than three months notice or immediately Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an LTIP whereas should a conflict of interest arise.
If any Non-Executive Director senior managers across the Group participate in other share and is not re-elected at the Companys Annual General Meeting, the incentive plans.
Eligible employees, including Executive Directors, appointment will cease automatically.
may participate in the relevant all-employee share plans namely On termination of an appointment, a Non-Executive Director UK plans for employees in the UK and French plans for employees is only entitled to such fees as may have accrued to the date of in France.
termination, together with the reimbursement in the normal way One of the aims of the Policy is to pay competitively and to of any expenses properly incurred prior to that date.
ensure its reward structures recognise superior performance.
The dates of the appointments of the Non-Executive Directors in The Company therefore undertakes external benchmarking to office as at 31 December 2016 are set out below.
ensure that, in its view, at all levels the Companys remuneration approach reflects the appropriate market rates.
The Remuneration Table 58 Committee is cognisant of the limitations and potential Date of original appointment Commencement Unexpired inflationary impacts of benchmarking and uses the results as to Board date of current term term as at April 2017 context rather than as the main driver for its decisions.
When Pierre Bouchut 13 February 13 February 10 months determining base salary increases for Executive Directors, the 2015 2015 Committee reviews the average Group-wide increase, paying Gwyn Burr 21 May 2012 21 May 2015 1 year, 1 month particular attention to the senior manager population.
Terry Duddy 3 December 3 December 1 year, 8 The Committee reviews Company performance against the 2009 2015 months AIP performance measures.
Personal performance rating Andrew 26 November 26 November 1 year, 7 impacts bonus calculations for all employees and these ratings Formica 2015 2015 months are calibrated internally to ensure consistency.
Executive 1 Judy Gibbons 1 May 2011 1 May 2014 1 month Director performance ratings are also calibrated annually by the Committee.
Having reviewed both Company and personal David Tyler 12 January 12 January 1 year, 9 performance, and considering payments being made to 2013 2016 months shareholders, the Committee makes a judgement as to what Notes level of bonus payment, if any, is reasonable.
Judy Gibbons appointment has been extended for three years with effect from retains discretion to review bonus payments upwards as well as 1 May 2017. downwards subject to the over-riding limits.
Considerations in setting this In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee Remuneration Policy did not consult with employees in preparing the Policy or the implementation thereof but is kept informed of remuneration developments for the employee population in the wider Group.
When setting Executive Director remuneration, Shareholder views the Committee takes into account Group-wide pay The Company welcomes dialogue with its significant shareholders and employment conditions, along with market and and seeks their views when major changes are being made to commercial factors.
Consultation was undertaken with major shareholders and institutional investor bodies in formulating the changes to the Policy in particular to the long-term incentive Employee pay and conditions elsewhere structure.
The Committee considered a number of scenarios for in the Group long-term incentives and, taking into account investor feedback, Remuneration packages for all Company employees may comprise took the decision to remain with the current long-term incentive both fixed and variable elements.
The more senior the individual, structure as set out in this Policy.
The Remuneration Committee the greater their general opportunity to impact directly upon Chairmans letter provides further details of the consultation Company performance, and therefore the remuneration packages exercise and subsequent changes made to the Policy.
of senior managers and Executive Directors have a greater emphasis on variable pay than those of more junior employees.
94 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Illustration of application of the Policy Set out below is an illustration of the reward mix for the Executive Directors at minimum, on-target and maximum performance under the Policy.
Chart 59 Scenarios: 2017 Implementation David Atkins Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Jean-Philippe Mouton 000s 3,344 3,500 38% 3,000 2,444 2,395 2,500 38% 38% 37% 1,853 1,777 2,000 37% 18% 1,302 37% 1,500 1,253 38% 35% 18% 18% 970 39% 35% 836 37% 1,000 18% 616 100% 47% 25% 567 37% 437 100% 47% 25% 100% 45% 24% 500 100% 45% 24% Fixed On-target Maximum Fixed On-target Maximum Fixed On-target Maximum Fixed On-target Maximum 0 Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term incentives Table 60 Assumptions: Executive Director remuneration scenarios 2017 Fixed Consists of base salary, contractual and non-contractual benefits, pension and participation in the UK allemployee share plans.
Base salary is the salary to apply after salary increases take effect on 1 April 2017.
Benefits are as shown in the Single Figure Table for 2016 in the Implementation Report except for Jean-Philippe Mouton where the amount he received under the profit sharing plan has been excluded from his 2016 benefits figure for these purposes.
See On-target and Maximum below.
Pension contributions are based on salary after salary increases take effect on 1 April 2017.
Jean-Philippe Moutons data has been converted at a rate of 1: 1.224.
Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed 000 000 000 000 David Atkins 627 21 188 836 Peter Cole 457 22 137 616 Timon Drakesmith 457 19 91 567 Jean-Philippe Mouton 350 12 75 437 On-target Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with expectation excluding share price appreciation and accrual of dividend equivalent payments : AIP: consists of on-target levels 50% of bonus maximum.
LTIP: consists of the threshold level of vesting 25% of the face value of the award.
France profit sharing Jean-Philippe Mouton only : consists of on-target levels 50% of the current capped vesting level of 19,614.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excluding share price appreciation and accrual of dividend equivalent payments : AIP: consists of the maximum bonus 200% of base salary.
LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards 200% of 2017 base salary.
France profit sharing Jean-Philippe Mouton only : assumes maximum vesting at the current capped vesting level of 19,614.
COM 95 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: IMPLEMENTATION REPORT The auditors have reported on certain sections of this Report and stated whether, in their opinion, those sections have been properly prepared.
Those sections which have been subject to audit are clearly indicated with an asterisk.
The Implementation Report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy was put into practice in 2016 and how it will be implemented in 2017.
It is divided into three sections: Section 1: Single Figure Tables Section 2: Further information on 2016 remuneration Section 3: Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2017 Chart 61 How much Executive Directors earned in 2016 As per Single Figure Table table 62 000 David Atkins Peter Cole 30% Fixed 70% Variable 31% Fixed 69% Variable Total Total 811 833 980 598 607 704 1 1 2,624 1,909 25% Fixed 75% Variable 25% Fixed 75% Variable Total Total 811 1,216 1,216 598 886 886 2 2 3,243 2,370 Timon Drakesmith Jean-Philippe Mouton 29% Fixed 71% Variable 31% Fixed 69% Variable Total Total 518 594 670 441 465 500 1 1 1,782 1,406 24% Fixed 76% Variable 25% Fixed 75% Variable Total Total 518 832 832 441 676 676 2 2 2,182 1,793 Fixed 1 Actual AIP 2 Potential Maximum LTIP I hope that you will agree with the Committee that the outturn for Executive Directors reflects the performance of the Company.
Gwyn Burr, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 96 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Section 1: Single Figure Tables This section contains the single figure tables showing 2016 remuneration for the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and information that relates directly to the composition of these figures.
All figures highlighted in GREEN in the Implementation Report relate directly to a figure that is found in the Single Figure Table, table 62.
Executive Directors remuneration: Single Figure Table Table 62 below shows the remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016, and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In the 2015 Annual Report, the TPR element of AIP was estimated at IPD 2.5%, resulting in an estimated payout level at 100% for that measure.
The final closing measurement for TPR during 2015 was IPD 2.9%, resulting in a final payout level of 100%.
The final payout levels were therefore the same as the estimated levels reported last year.
The estimated TPR outcome for the 2015 LTIP figure was nil, and the actual outcome was nil.
In addition, the 2015 LTIP figure contained a value for the Absolute Net Asset Value Absolute NAV portion of the 2012 LTIP where the performance period ended on 31 December 2015 and was calculated based on the average share price over the three months to 31 December 2015.
This measure was calculated to vest in last years report at 70.40%.
The actual Absolute NAV performance condition vested at 70.74%.
The 2015 LTIP figure reflects the actual outcome of the TPR and Absolute NAV performance conditions and has been adjusted to reflect the actual share price of 577.5p on the vesting date.
Sterling:Euro exchange rates Jean-Philippe Moutons salary, benefits, annual bonus and pension contributions are paid in euro.
When converted, the sterling equivalent will vary with currency movements.
The amounts paid are shown in the Single Figure Table converted into sterling using the average exchange rate for 2016 1:1.224.
The LTIP is calculated in sterling and converted to euro at the same conversion rate.
Equivalent data for 2015 has been converted at the average exchange rate for that year 1:1.378.
The euro amounts are shown below in table 63.
Jean-Philippe Mouton receives a seniority allowance and welfare contribution.
UK Executive Directors participated in the Companys all-employee share plan arrangements SIP and Sharesave.
All participants in the SIP received an award of free shares during 2016.
This included the UK Executive Directors page 109 and is reflected in the increased benefits figure this year.
Jean-Philippe Mouton participated in a profit-sharing scheme in France and receives an employers contribution to a French employee saving scheme.
Annual bonus AIP for 2016 The Annual Incentive Plan AIP is the Companys annual bonus scheme.
60% of the bonus achieved is paid in cash and the deferred element of 40% is granted as an award under the Deferred Bonus Share Scheme DBSS.
Details of the Remuneration Policy in relation to the AIP and DBSS are on page 84 in the Remuneration Policy.
COM 97 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued The following tables tables 64, 65 and 66 show the AIP bonus outcomes and achievement against AIP performance targets for 2016.
Table 64 Total AIP outcomes for 2016 Financial Personal Vesting measures measures Total vesting amount AIP amount % of bonus % of bonus percentage as % 000 Shown achieved, achieved, %, max of salary in Single max 70% max 30% 100% max 200% Figure Table David Atkins 44 24 68 136 833 Peter Cole 44 24 68 136 607 Timon Drakesmith 44 27 71 142 594 Jean-Philippe Mouton 44 24 68 136 465 The bonus awards shown above are based on the performance conditions that were set in advance of the financial year.
The targets were not disclosed in advance of the year, as they were considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information, but full details of the conditions and performance against them are now set out below.
Achievement against financial measures 70% weighting Details of the AIP outcome for 2016 are provided in table 65 below.
Table 65 AIP Outcome Performance against targets Bonus achieved Vesting Weighting % % of max Performance Entry threshold percentage of max bonus bonus measure % vesting at threshold On-target Full vesting target Result achieved against target available achieved 1 Adjusted EPS 26.9p 20% 30.0p 31.0p 29.2p 42.3% 25% 10% TPR IPD 0.0% 25% IPD 0.7% IPD 2.0% IPD 2.3% 100% 25% 25% estimated 2 outcome 3 NRI 1.5% 0% 2.5% 3.5% 2.2% 35% 10% 4% 4 Cost Ratio 23.1% 0% 22.6% 22.1% 22.6% 50% 10% 5% 44% out of 70% The element of bonus determined for each performance measure is calculated by interpolating the actual performance achieved for each measure against the scale between entry threshold for vesting and target to achieve full vesting.
Adjusted EPS is the Groups underlying profit divided by the average number of shares in issue.
The TPR performance is measured relative to the IPD UK Retail Property 75% and IPD France Retail Property 25% indices.
The annual data for these indices is not available at the date of this report.
Accordingly, the closing measurement for TPR for the year to 31 December 2016 is based on managements best estimate using available data see page 50 for property returns data.
The AIP is not paid until the confirmed data for these indices is available.
The actual outcome will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.
Net Rental Income NRI is the percentage growth in the Group net rental income, calculated on a like-for-like basis.
Cost ratio is the Groups total operating costs as a percentage of gross rental income.
98 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Achievement against personal objectives 30% weighting Executive Directors are able to earn up to 30% of the maximum award for achieving personal objectives.
These are designed to focus not only on the delivery of the Business Plan and strategic elements for 2016 refer to Our Strategy on page 5, but also include an assessment of behaviours based on the Companys values as well as each Executive Directors capability in managing colleagues to maximise their contribution.
Where it is possible to apply a meaningful measurement, personal objectives incorporate environmental, social and governance parameters.
Table 66 sets out the key 2016 personal objectives for the Executive Directors and how these support the Companys three strategic elements.
Table 66 2016 Key personal objectives Link to Strategic Elements % of max bonus achieved Personal objectives max 30% David Atkins Provide strategic leadership for culture, values, diversity and inclusion plans and establish 24% Net Positive sustainability strategy Ensure top level performance against Business Plan with particular focus on monitoring portfolio performance, cost control and income growth Maintain strong communication of investment proposition Integration of Ireland portfolio Peter Cole Embed Product Experience Framework and roll out initiatives 24% Progress key developments and initiatives at Croydon, Brent Cross, Leeds and The Goodsyard Promote disposal strategy Timon Drakesmith Maintain focus on costs whilst delivering Business Plan 27% Monitor FX hedging, maintain credit rating, consider refinancing opportunities and review South Africa listing Complete expansion of VIA Outlet fund and promote appropriate VIA organisational structure Jean-Philippe Mouton Maximise top level France performance 24% Progress major refurbishments and retenanting Review gender diversity within the French management team and address imbalance Progress against these strategic elements is on pages 12 to 17.
Strategic elements Focus on growing consumer markets Create differentiated Promote financial efficiency destinations and partnerships HAMMERSON.
COM 99 Sustainability, culture and values Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Committees consideration of 2016 AIP vesting level Every year the Committee considers the overall vesting AIP outcome as determined by achievement against the financial and personal targets to check that the bonus level is appropriate given the Companys performance during the year.
The Committee reported in the 2015 Annual Report on the possible consequences for remuneration performance measures of the acquisition of a portfolio of loans secured on various Irish retail properties.
In setting the 2016 AIP performance measures the Committee considered how it could measure property returns for assets in Ireland and decided that there was no appropriate Irish benchmark.
It decided to measure the performance of Irish assets against the same index used for UK assets, but review and, if considered appropriate, exercise its discretion if it considered that comparison of Irish assets against a UK index led to an unintended outcome.
The Committee reviewed the 2016 AIP results early in 2017.
In light of its review, the Committee concluded that no adjustments to performance targets were necessary.
In addition, in assessing payout levels against personal objectives, the Committee took into account progress made and remaining challenges against the objectives set.
Its conclusion was that all four of the Executive Directors contributed significantly to the Companys performance with excellent progress against objectives.
Key objectives achieved were the launch of the listing in South Africa, good progress on integration of the Ireland portfolio, progress in developing the wider management group and succession planning, delivery of a successful disposals programme and progress and completion of several development projects in the UK and France.
Bonus deferral The AIP amounts earned for 2016 will be paid 60% in cash and 40% in the form of a deferred share award granted under the DBSS.
The deferred share award is granted in two tranches: the DBSS A award relates to the bonus achieved against the EPS, NRI, Cost Ratio and personal objectives measures: and the DBSS B award relates to the TPR measure and so is only granted once the TPR result is known and at the same time as the cash element is paid.
Each award is granted with a face value equal to 40% of the bonus achieved against the relevant measures, over a number of shares calculated based on the average mid-market closing share price of a share over the five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
Details of the DBSS A and B awards granted in 2017 will be included in next years Annual Report.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance under the LTIP is assessed over differing performance periods.
TSR is assessed over a period of four years from the date of grant, and TPR and EPS are assessed over a period of four financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is granted.
The Single Figure Table for 2016 is required to report the value of the LTIP element for which the performance period ends during 2016.
Consequently, the LTIP values shown in the Single Figure Table comprise the value of the TSR element of the 2012 award where the performance period ended 1 April 2016 and the TPR and EPS elements of the 2013 award where the performance period ended 31 December 2016.
Achievement against targets The following table shows the level of performance achieved against the targets set for the three performance components that drive the 2016 LTIP vesting value as shown in the Single Figure Table.
Table 67 LTIP Outcome Performance against targets Vesting Performance measure Entry threshold target Result percentage and period 25% vesting at threshold Full vesting target achieved against target 1 TSR 2 4 12 Median Upper Quartile Below 0% TSR element of the LTIP award 2 4 16 median granted in 2012.
rank 2 TPR estimated IPD 0% IPD 1.5% IPD 100% TPR element of the LTIP award outcome 2.04% granted in 2013.
Award is scheduled to vest in April 2017.
TSR performance is measured over the four-year period from date of grant against a comparator group which for the 2012 LTIP award was British Land, Capital and Regional, Intu Properties, Corio Corio merged with Klpierre and delisted in 2015 Corio was retained with performance measured to date of delisting: EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Index was substituted for Corio from date of delisting until end of the performance period, Derwent London, Great Portland Estates, IVG, Klpierre, Land Securities, Quintain Estates, SEGRO, Shaftesbury, St Mowden Properties, Unibail-Rodamco and the FTSE 100 Index.
For the 2013 LTIP award, TPR performance is measured over the four financial years commencing with the year of grant and in comparison with the Investment Property Databanks UK Annual Retail Property Index and France Annual Retail Property Index.
For the 2013 LTIP award, EPS is calculated with reference to the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Best Practices recommendations.
100 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Vesting value achieved Table 68 shows the level of vesting outcome for the three components that drive the 2016 LTIP vesting as shown in the Single Figure Table.
The element dependent on TPR is estimated as the IPD data regarding TPR performance is not available at the date of the Annual Report.
The number of shares includes any notional dividend shares awarded to date.
The actual number of shares that vest may increase by the amount of any notional dividend shares awarded up to the date of transfer of the award.
The value shown is based on the average of the mid-market closing price of a share for each dealing day in the three-month period to 31 December 2016 555.4p.
The actual value that vests, based on the closing share price on the vesting date, will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
Pension Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension benefits.
Salary supplements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are detailed in table 69 below and are reflected in the Single Figure Table on page 97 table 62.
All salary supplements paid to Executive Directors in lieu of pension benefits are subject to deductions as required for income tax and social security contributions in the UK and France.
Jean-Philippe Mouton also participates in a legacy collective supplementary defined contribution pension scheme, operated by Hammerson Asset Management, France, which is the French company that employs him and which makes employer contributions at the annual statutory limit.
Information on the accrued pension benefits for David Atkins and Peter Cole under the Companys closed defined benefit scheme is on page 109.
Salary supplements received by all Executive Directors and the pension benefit received by Jean-Philippe Mouton do not qualify for AIP purposes or entitlements under the LTIP.
Table 69 1 Salary supplements in lieu of pension benefits 2016 000 shown in Single Figure 2015 Table 000 David Atkins 182 179 Peter Cole 133 131 Timon Drakesmith 83 82 Jean-Philippe Mouton 76 67 Note 1.
David Atkins and Peter Cole each receive a salary supplement of 30% of base salary.
Timon Drakesmith receives a salary supplement of 20% of base salary.
Jean-Philippe Mouton receives a salary supplement of 80,000 2015: 80,000 and a legacy collective supplementary defined benefit scheme contribution of 12,449 2015: 12,264 which is included in his total shown above.
COM 101 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Non-Executive Directors remuneration: Single Figure Table Table 70 below shows the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016, and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The benefits disclosed in table 70 below relate to the reimbursement of travel and accommodation expenses incurred in attending Board meetings at the Companys Head Office.
The grossed-up value has been disclosed.
In accordance with the Policy, the tax arising will be settled by the Company.
Table 70 Non-Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016 Committee membership and other responsibilities Fees Benefits Total Audit Nomination Remuneration 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Committee Committee Committee Other 000 000 000 000 000 000 David Tyler Chairman Member Chairman 325 320 2 325 322 1 Pierre Bouchut Chairman Member 68 53 11 5 79 58 Gwyn Burr Member Member Chairman 72 70 2 72 72 2 Terry Duddy Member Member Senior 72 67 72 67 Independent Director 3 Jacques Espinasse Chairman Member 22 70 6 5 28 75 Andrew Formica Member Member 62 6 62 6 Judy Gibbons Member Member Member 67 65 2 1 69 66 4 Anthony Watson Member Member Chairman Senior 23 8 31 Independent Director Total 688 674 19 23 707 697 Notes 1.
Replaced Jacques Espinasse as Audit Committee Chairman from 25 April 2016.
Replaced Anthony Watson as Senior Independent Director from 22 April 2015.
Jacques Espinasse retired from the Board on 25 April 2016 and received a departing gift which cost 895 within the limits of the Policy.
The value above is the gross value.
Anthony Watson retired from the Board on 22 April 2015 and received a departing gift which cost 4,150 within the limits of the Policy.
Fees payable to Non-Executive Directors Prior to 2016, Non-Executive Directors fees were last increased in July 2013.
A review of the Non-Executive Directors fees, including a benchmark exercise, was carried out in 2016.
Following the review the Board approved an increase in the Non-Executive base fee of 3,000 to take effect from 1 July 2016, representing an increase in line with median.
A review of the Chairmans fee was also undertaken and a proposal to increase the Chairmans fee by 10,000, a smaller percentage increase than for the Non-Executive Directors, was approved to take effect from 1 July 2016.
These increases are reflected in the Single Figure Table table 70 above.
Details of the current annual fees payable to Non-Executive Directors are on page 114.
102 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Section 2: Further information on 2016 remuneration This section contains other required information such as voting on remuneration matters at the Annual General Meeting AGM, Directors shareholdings, share plan interests, information on pensions, the Chief Executives remuneration compared to employees and relative importance of spend on pay.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meetings Table 71 below shows votes cast by proxy at the AGM held on 25 April 2016 in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report and on 23 April 2014 in respect of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders raised no issues concerning remuneration during either AGM.
Table 71 Statement of voting on remuneration: 2014 AGM and 2016 AGM Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld Number % of shares Number % of shares % of issued Number 1 2 Resolution of shares voted of shares voted share capital of shares To receive and approve the 2015 Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2016 AGM 537,967,633 98.36% 8,975,267 1.64% 69.72% 2,061,292 To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM 534,234,020 97.11% 15,898,048 2.89% 77.17% 175,583 Notes 1.
Based on issued share capital of 784,432,706 ordinary shares on 21 April 2016, which was the record date for the 2016 AGM and 712,902,066 ordinary shares on 17 April 2014, which was the record date for the 2014 AGM.
Represents 0.26% of the issued share capital on the record date for the 2016 AGM and 0.02% of the issued share capital on the record date for the 2014 AGM.
Directors shareholdings and share plan interests Table 72 Summary of all Directors shareholdings and share plan interests Outstanding scheme interests 31 12 16 Total of all share interests and Unvested scheme Unvested scheme Vested but Total shares subject outstanding interests subject to interests not subject to unexercised to outstanding scheme interests, 1 2 3 4 Interests in shares at 31 12 16 performance measures performance measures scheme interests scheme interests at 31 12 16 Executive Directors David Atkins 735,898 118,740 76,254 930,892 1,395,049 Peter Cole 533,297 86,032 173,601 792,930 1,132,598 Timon Drakesmith 503,016 87,344 52,138 642,498 951,572 Jean-Philippe Mouton 387,456 60,337 0 447,793 713,495 Non-Executive Directors David Tyler 60,000 Pierre Bouchut 20,000 Gwyn Burr 5,182 Terry Duddy 50,000 Andrew Formica 22,000 Judy Gibbons 4,115 Notes 1.
LTIP awards still subject to performance measures.
DBSS and Sharesave awards that have not vested.
LTIP and DBSS awards that have vested but remain unexercised, and notional dividend shares are included.
All share plan interests, vested, unvested and unexercised together with SIP shares and any holdings of ordinary shares.
COM 103 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Directors shareholdings Tables 73 and 74 show the beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company held by all Directors who were in office during the year ended 31 December 2016.
For Executive Directors, the table also shows actual share ownership compared with the current share ownership guidelines.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to acquire a shareholding in the Company.
Details of new share ownership guidelines are in the Policy on page 87.
Table 73 1 Executive Directors shareholdings Shares held as at Shares held as Vested but Guideline on Actual beneficial 1 January at 31 December unexercised share share ownership share ownership 2 3 2016 2016 scheme interests as % of salary as % of salary Guideline met David Atkins 367,056 450,085 40,415 150% 459% Yes Peter Cole 277,461 324,185 92,009 100% 535% Yes Timon Drakesmith 280,080 302,125 27,633 100% 452% Yes Jean-Philippe Mouton 240,891 265,702 0 100% 427% Yes Notes 1.
Between 1 January 2017 and 17 February 2017, the Executive Directors beneficial interests above remained unchanged.
The number of shares shown is on a net of tax and NI basis in accordance with the share ownership guidelines.
As at and based on the share price of 573 pence on 31 December 2016.
Table 74 1 Non-Executive Directors shareholdings 1 January 31 December 2016 2016 David Tyler 25,000 60,000 Pierre Bouchut 20,000 Gwyn Burr 5,000 5,182 Terry Duddy 40,000 50,000 2 Jacques Espinasse 17,884 n a Andrew Formica 15,000 22,000 Judy Gibbons 4,115 4,115 Notes 1.
Between 1 January 2017 and 17 February 2017, the serving Non-Executive Directors beneficial interests above remained unchanged.
Jacques Espinasse retired on 25 April 2016.
His beneficial interest at that time was 17,884 shares.
Executive Directors share plan interests including share options Tables 75 to 78 set out the Executive Directors interests under the Deferred Bonus Share Scheme DBSS, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Sharesave scheme.
Awards under the DBSS and Sharesave scheme are not subject to any performance conditions other than continued employment on the vesting date.
The LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions, details of which are in tables 79 and 80.
The TPR element of any bonus payment to Executive Directors including the deferred shares element awarded under the DBSS is made only when all IPD index data is available for calculation of actual performance against the TPR performance measure.
The DBSS B award below is that part of the award payable when final TPR data is available.
Awards to UK Executive Directors under the LTIP and DBSS are made in the form of nil-cost share options.
For French tax reasons, LTIP and DBSS awards granted to Jean-Philippe Mouton are in the form of conditional awards of free shares.
Awards to UK Executive Directors under the DBSS and LTIP up to and including the 2013 awards accrue notional dividend shares to the date of transfer.
Awards made from 2014 onwards accrue notional dividend shares to the date of vesting.
The Sharesave scheme does not accrue notional dividend shares.
For Jean-Philippe Mouton notional dividend shares accrue to the date of vesting in respect of 2014 LTIP awards and subsequent awards.
For the DBSS, notional dividend shares accrue to the date of transfer in respect of 2013 awards and to the date of vesting for subsequent awards.
In the case of Jean-Philippe Mouton this is the number of shares that vested during 2016.
Face values are calculated by multiplying the number of shares granted during 2016 by the relevant share price.
For the DBSS, the average share price for the three business days preceding the award is used.
For the LTIP, the average share price for the five business days preceding the award is used.
Notional dividend shares accruing are not included in the face value calculations for either scheme.
Face value for the Sharesave scheme is calculated by reference to the exercise price of options granted in 2016.
Jean-Philippe Moutons entitlement to awards arising under the LTIP and DBSS is calculated in euro.
The prevailing exchange rate at grant is used to determine the number of shares to award.
On 12 March 2015, Jean-Philippe Mouton was granted an additional award under 2015 DBSS A award to correct an administrative error made in the original award.
106 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Long-term incentive awards Tables 79 and 80 set out a summary of the LTIP structure and details of the LTIP performance measures and conditions.
Table 79 LTIP structure summary All years 2013 2014 2015 2016 Level of award 200% of salary 100% of salary 150% of salary 200% of salary Performance measures TSR, TPR, EPS Performance period Four years Weighting of performance measures 33.33% TPR: Measured over four financial years IPD UK Annual commencing with year of grant in comparison Retail Property with composite index Index and France Annual Retail Index EPS: Measured over four financial years Benchmark: Benchmark: Benchmark: Benchmark: commencing with year of grant.
Calculated RPI RPI Blend of UK Blend of UK with reference to EPRA Best Practice French CPI French CPI recommendations TSR: Measured over four-year period from date of grant.
TSR Comparator Group: Altarea P P P P British Land P P P P Capital and Regional P P P P Intu Properties P P P P 1 Corio P P Eurocommercial P P P P IVG P Klpierre P P P P Land Securities P P P P London Metric P P P P SEGRO P P P P Shaftesbury P P P P Unibail-Rodamco P P P P Wereldhave P P P New River Retail P P P P P P FTSE 100 Index Note 1.
Corio merged with Klpierre on 31 March 2015 and delisted from Euronext Amsterdam.
Corio is retained, with performance measured to the date of delisting.
The EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Index is substituted for Corio from the date of its delisting to the end of the performance period.
COM 107 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Table 80 LTIP performance conditions 2012 to 2016 TSR Vesting threshold 0% 25% 100% All award years Less than TSR of Equal to TSR of Equal to TSR of upper median-ranked entity in median-ranked entity in quartile-ranked entity in comparator group comparator group comparator group Vesting for intermediate performance between median and upper quartile-ranked entities is on a linear scale between 25% and 100%.
For awards made from 2014 onwards, interpolation is between the TSR of the median and upper quartile-ranked companies on a straight-line basis on performance of those positions between 25% and 100%.
Vesting under the TSR performance condition is subject to the Committees satisfaction that the Companys underlying performance has been satisfactory in comparison with that of the FTSE Real Estate sector.
TPR Vesting threshold 0% 25% 55% 85% 100% All award years Less than Equal to Index 0.5% Index 1.0% Index 1.5% Index Index average p. a. average p. a. average p. a. Vesting for intermediate performance between these levels will be pro-rated on a linear basis between 25% and 100%.
EPS Absolute NAV Vesting threshold 0% 25% 100% 2015 and 2016 awards Less than a UK and Equal to or more than a Equal to or more than a EPS measure French CPI blend UK and French CPI blend UK and French CPI blend 3.0% p. a. growth 3.0% p. a. growth 7.0% p. a. growth 2013 and 2014 awards Less than RPI Equal to or more than RPI Equal to or more than RPI EPS measure 3.0% p. a. growth 3.0% p. a. growth 7.0% p. a. growth 2012 award Less than RPI Equal to or more than RPI Equal to or more than RPI Absolute NAV measure 3.0% p. a. growth 3.0% p. a. growth 7.0% p. a. growth Vesting for intermediate performance between these levels will be pro-rated on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%.
Details of 2012 LTIP which vested during 2016 The following table shows the number of shares delivered on vesting of the 2012 LTIP which vested on 2 April 2016 : Table 81 TSR TPR Absolute NAV Performance period: 2 4 12-2 4 16 Performance period:1 1 12-31 12 15 Performance period: 1 1 12-31 12 15 Total Value of value of Vesting % Number Value of Vesting % Number Value of Vesting % Number shares Total shares Shares against of shares shares Shares against of shares shares Shares against of shares delivered shares delivered available target delivered delivered available target delivered delivered available target delivered 000 delivered 000 David Atkins 106,299 0% 0 0 106,299 0% 0 0 106,299 70.74% 75,196 434 75,196 434 Peter Cole 76,317 0% 0 0 76,317 0% 0 0 76,317 70.74% 53,986 312 53,986 312 Timon Drakesmith 72,683 0% 0 0 72,683 0% 0 0 72,683 70.74% 51,416 297 51,415 297 Jean-Philippe Mouton 28,142 0% 0 0 28,142 0% 0 0 28,142 70.74% 19,907 115 19,907 115 Notes: 1.
The value shown is based on the share price on the date on which the awards vested of 577.5p.
Details of the TPR and NAV performance conditions were shown as estimates in the 2015 Annual Report as the value of those components was reflected in the Single Figure Table for 2015 as the performance period for those components ended during 2015.
The table above shows the final outcome.
Details of the assessment of the TSR performance condition are shown in table 67.
The number of shares vested includes any notional dividend shares awarded to the date of transfer.
108 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT LTIP awards granted during 2016 All 2016 LTIP awards were granted to a value of 200% of base salary as at date of grant.
Table 82 Face value Number Normal on grant Date of grant of shares vesting date 000 David Atkins 24 March 2016 208,413 24 March 2020 1,194 Peter Cole 24 March 2016 151,858 24 March 2020 870 Timon Drakesmith 24 March 2016 142,433 24 March 2020 816 Jean-Philippe Mouton 24 March 2016 112,809 24 March 2020 646 Notes: 1.
The face value on grant is calculated based on a share price of 572.9p being the average of the middle market quotation on the previous five working days prior to the date of grant.
Details of the performance targets applicable to the above awards are shown in table 80.
Executive Directors SIP interests The Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company under the Share Incentive Plan SIP at 31 December 2016 are shown in table 83 below.
The shares are held under a SIP trust.
Jean-Philippe Mouton is not eligible to participate in the SIP.
Table 83 Executive Directors SIP interests Total SIP shares Total SIP shares Partnership shares Matching shares Free shares Dividend shares 31 December 1 1 January 2016 purchased awarded awarded purchased 2016 David Atkins 12,507 312 312 497 444 14,072 Peter Cole 13,871 312 312 497 491 15,483 Timon Drakesmith 5,381 432 432 497 207 6,949 Note 1.
Partnership shares may be purchased by means of a lump sum or by regular monthly investment.
Detail of Executive Directors accrued pension benefits Following the closure of the Companys defined benefit pension scheme Scheme in 2014, David Atkins and Peter Cole remain eligible for a deferred pension based on their pensionable salary and service at the point they ceased to accrue further benefits in the Scheme.
The normal retirement age under the Scheme is 60: members may draw their pension from the age of 55, subject to actuarial reduction and the Trustees consent.
Further information concerning the Scheme is in note 6 to the accounts on page 145.
Table 84 below shows the total accrued benefit at 31 December 2016 representing the annual pension that is expected to be payable on retirement, given the length of pensionable service and salary of each Executive Director at the date each ceased to accrue further benefits in the Scheme.
Table 84 also shows the transfer values of Executive Directors accrued entitlements under the Scheme calculated under the Companies Act 2006.
The figures represent the value of assets that the Scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Schemes liability in respect of each Executive Directors pension benefits.
The figures do not represent sums paid or payable to individual Executive Directors but represent a potential liability of the Scheme.
The statutory disclosures are based on required assumptions.
Any increase or decrease in transfer value over the year represents a change in the transfer value assumptions that the Scheme applies.
Table 84 Executive Directors accrued pension benefits and transfer values Total accrued benefit Transfer value at 31 December at 31 December of total accrued benefit 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 David Atkins 83 83 1,734 1,497 Peter Cole 248 248 6,088 5,342 HAMMERSON.
COM 109 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued External board appointments Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an outside non-executive directorship, the individual is entitled to retain any fees received.
Timon Drakesmith was appointed as a non-executive director of The Merchants Trust PLC with effect from 1 November 2016 for which he will receive an annual fee of 30,500.
David Atkins was appointed as a non-executive director of Whitbread PLC with effect from 1 January 2017 for which he will receive an annual fee of 62,000.
Total Shareholder Return Chart 85 below shows the total shareholder return in respect of the Companys ordinary shares of 25 pence each for the eight years ended 31 December 2016 against the return of the FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK Index, which comprises shares of the Companys peers.
The total shareholder return is rebased to 100 at 31 December 2008.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Chart 85 Total Shareholder Return Index 31 December 2008 100 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 Hammerson FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK Source: Thomson Reuters Remuneration of the Chief Executive over the last eight years Table 86 shows the remuneration of the holder of the office of Chief Executive for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2016.
The total remuneration and annual bonus figures for 2016 include certain estimated values for the LTIP and AIP vesting.
See the Single Figure Table table 62 on page 97 for details.
The total remuneration reported in the 2015 Annual Report contained estimates: the numbers given here are the actual values.
See the Single Figure Table table 62 on page 97.
David Atkins became Chief Executive on 1 October 2009, having been an Executive Director since 2007.
The figure for 2009 has been pro-rated accordingly.
John Richards retired as Chief Executive on 30 September 2009.
All numbers are expressed as a percentage of the maximum that could have vested in that year.
110 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration for the Chief Executive compared with all other employees of the Hammerson group Table 87 shows the percentage change from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2016 in base salary, taxable benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive compared with all other employees of the Hammerson group.
Table 87 Percentage change in the Chief Executives base salary, taxable benefits and bonus Change % 1 Notes Salary Benefits Annual bonus Total David Atkins 1,2 1.9% 0.3% -9.7% -5.1% Total Group 1,2, 3,4 -2.8% 2.3% -13.6% -4.9% Notes 1.
The percentage movement in annual bonus is based on calculations that incorporate an estimated value for the TPR performance measure within the AIP.
The calculation of the percentage change in total remuneration excludes pensions and LTIP.
David Atkins has been excluded from the Group calculation.
Data for the Group calculation includes all employee bonuses.
Payments in euro have been converted at a constant exchange rate of 1:1.224.
The Group calculation uses a weighted average headcount for the year.
Employees received an average salary increase of 3% during 2016.
Approximately 60 employees transferred into the Group as part of the loan conversion in Ireland, mostly employed in roles that Hammerson does not directly employ in the UK.
These roles are paid at a lower base salary level than most roles in the UK and therefore decreased the total Group percentage change in salary.
Performance measures for centre based employees include some operational measures that do not apply to other Group employees or to the Executive Directors.
The outturn of these measures was lower than in prior years and therefore impacted adversely on the total Group percentage change in bonus.
Relative importance of spend on pay Table 88 below shows the Companys total employee costs compared with dividends paid.
The Company did not buy back any of its own shares during 2016.
Table 88 Total employee costs compared with dividends paid Employee 1 2 costs Dividends 2016 53.6m 180.1m 2015 48.8m 165.2m Difference 9.8% 9.0% Notes 1.
These figures have been extracted from note 4 Administration expenses to the accounts on page 144.
These figures have been extracted from note 9 Dividends to the accounts on page 147.
Payments to past Directors There were no payments to past Directors in 2016.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office to past Directors in 2016.
Advisors A number of advisors provided services to the Remuneration Committee during the year.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT was appointed by the Remuneration Committee on 17 August 2011.
FIT provides advice on reward structures and levels and other aspects of the Companys remuneration policy.
FIT is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with their code of conduct.
However, to avoid any conflict of interest, the terms of engagement available on request to shareholders specify that FIT will only provide advice expressly authorised by or on behalf of the Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, where instructions are taken from Company employees on behalf of the Remuneration Committee, FIT ensures that the Remuneration Committee is kept informed of their broad scope.
Fees for advice provided by FIT in 2016, which were charged on their standard terms, were 64,712 excluding VAT 2015: 68,127, excluding VAT.
FIT did not provide any other services to the Company during 2016.
The Remuneration Committee remains satisfied that all advice was objective and independent.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP HSF provides the Company with legal advice and Lane Clark & Peacock LLP LCP provides actuarial advice to the Company.
Advice from both firms is made available to the Remuneration Committee, where it relates to matters within its remit.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Human Resources Director attend meetings by invitation.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief Executive, senior Human Resources staff and the General Counsel and Company Secretary provided advice to the Remuneration Committee on matters relating to the Remuneration Policy and Company practices.
No-one is present during discussions concerning their own remuneration.
COM 111 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Section 3: Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2017 This section sets out information on how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2017 if approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Shareholder approval for the Remuneration Policy was last received at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The Company has proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy, and will present the revised Policy set out on pages 80-95 to shareholders for approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
If the new Remuneration Policy is approved by shareholders, the Company intends to implement the new Policy in 2017 as shown below.
If the new Remuneration Policy is not approved by shareholders then the existing Remuneration Policy would instead remain in place and continue to operate.
In implementing the Remuneration Policy, the Committee will continue to take into account factors such as remuneration packages available within comparable companies, the Companys overall performance, internal relativities, achievement of corporate objectives, individual performance and experience, published views of institutional investors and general market trends and performance.
Table 89 Summary of planned implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2017 Implementation of the Remuneration Policy element Commentary Policy during 2017 Base Salary Normally reviewed annually to take effect from 1 April 2017.
Base salary 2017 In February 2017, the Remuneration Committee determined that an 000 increase in base salaries of 2.5% was appropriate for David Atkins, Peter David Atkins 627 Cole and Jean-Philippe Mouton.
This increase is slightly less than Peter Cole 457 increases in salaries awarded across the Group which were generally in Timon Drakesmith 457 the region of 3%.
A number of factors influenced this decision, including Jean-Philippe Mouton 428 the effect of inflation and evidence of salaries within the real estate sector.
Executive benchmarking was also considered.
An exceptional pay increase of 9.33% was approved by the Committee for Timon Drakesmith.
The Committee Chairmans letter on pages 78 to 79 sets out the reasons for this increase.
The increases take effect from 1 April 2017.
All Executive Directors receive a salary supplement by way of pension No change to current arrangements is Pension provision.
Details on benefits received by Executive Directors are on page 97.
No change to current arrangements is Benefits proposed for 2017.
The AIP maximum for Executive Directors in 2017 will remain at 200% of No change to current arrangements is Annual Incentive Plan AIP and base salary.
proposed for 2017. deferral under the Performance measures for the AIP in 2017 remain weighted 70% towards Deferred Bonus Group financial targets and 30% towards personal objectives.
Share Scheme Group financial targets comprise: DBSS 30% Adjusted earnings per share 30% Total Property Return relative to IPD 10% Growth in like-for-like Net Rental Income As is demonstrated in this report in respect of previous years, the Committee designs the financial targets and personal objectives to align closely to the Companys strategy as well as to the Business Plan and the priorities for the coming year.
It is therefore felt that the specific financial targets and important personal objectives are commercially sensitive such that, having considered this carefully, the Committee is of the view that it is in the Companys interests not to disclose this information in advance.
Full details of the specific targets and key personal objectives set will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.
40% of the 2017 AIP vesting will be deferred by making an award of shares under the DBSS, with a deferral period of two years.
112 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Table 89 continued Summary of planned implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2017 continued Implementation of the Remuneration Policy element Commentary Policy during 2017 Annual award of 200% of base salary.
Vesting of the award is subject to the Awards will be made during 2017 Long-Term Incentive Plan following performance measures weighted 33.33% and measured over a under the existing LTIP rules.
From four-year performance period: 2018 onwards awards will be made under the new LTIP rules if these are Adjusted Earnings Per Share: calculated with reference to the European approved by shareholders at the 2017 Public Real Estate Association Best Practice recommendations.
65:25:10 weighted blend of UK, France and Ireland.
Vesting under the EPS performance measure is as follows: Performance Percentage of award vesting Less than CPI 3.0% p. a. growth 0% Equal to CPI 3.0% p. a. growth 25% Equal to or more than CPI 7.0% p. a. growth 100% Total Property Return: measured against a composite index comprising the Investment Property Databank Annual Retail Property Indices for the UK and a bespoke Europe Index weighted on a 60:40 basis Performance compared to the Index Percentage of Award vesting Less than index 0% Equal to index 25% Index 0.5% average p. a.
100% Vesting for EPS and TPR targets for intermediate performance between levels is pro-rated on a linear basis between the specified award levels Total Shareholder Return: measured against a comparator group comprising British Land, Intu Properties, Klpierre, Unibail-Rodamco and Land Securities.
Performance compared to the comparator group Percentage of Award vesting Less than TSR of median-ranked entity in comparator group 0% Equal to TSR of median-ranked entity in comparator group 25% Equal to TSR of upper quartile-ranked entity in comparator group 100% Vesting for intermediate performance between median and upper quartile-ranked entities is on a linear scale between 25% and 100%.
Vesting is subject to the Committees satisfaction that underlying performance has been satisfactory in comparison with that of the FTSE Real Estate sector.
A comparison against a group of five major REITs is likely to provide a more objective measure of success at Hammerson relative to other closely comparable companies.
Each of these companies will manage their portfolios primarily in the currency of their listing with Hammerson alone having significant assets in two currencies.
A local currency basis for determining relative TSR will be used as this better reflects the likely interaction between the performance of the underlying portfolios TSR and minimises the distortion of the relative currency movements.
COM 113 Directors Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Table 89 continued Summary of planned implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2017 continued Implementation of the Remuneration Policy element Commentary Policy during 2017 All-employee The opportunity to participate in all-employee arrangements continues on No change to current arrangements is the same basis as all staff in the UK or France as appropriate.
proposed for 2017. arrangements 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and all other Executive The Share Ownership Guidelines have Share Ownership Guidelines Directors.
been increased from 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for all other Executive Directors to 250% of base salary.
Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees were reviewed by the Company in 2016 and Current 2017 Fee Levels per annum 000 will be reviewed again in 2017.
The 2016 increase in fees was effective from Non-Executive Directors fees 1 July 2016.
Chairman 330 Non-Executive Director 58 Senior Independent Director 10 Chair of Audit Committee 15 Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 Audit Remuneration Committee Member 5 By order of the Board Sarah Booth General Counsel and Company Secretary 17 February 2017 114 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
