Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Remuneration Committee 1.
Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee carried out the following activities: review of the achievement of the 2015 annual bonus scheme performance measures against target: reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015: review of the awards vesting under the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP for the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2015: review of the base salaries for the Executive Directors for the year ending 31 December 2016: approval of awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP to the Executive Directors:agreeing the design of, and targets for, the annual bonus scheme for the year ending 31 December 2016: review of the Committees terms of reference and performance during the year: obtaining an understanding of the reasons for the votes cast against the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2016 Annual General Meeting and considering shareholder feedback: review of the contractual terms of the Founder LTIP in the light of shareholder feedback and the proposal of certain amendments subject to shareholder approval: Margaret Young review of the terms of the PSP: and review of the pay and benefits packages of senior employees.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Introduction by the Chair of the externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise undertaken during Remuneration Committee the year and the Committee was found to be operating effectively.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Remuneration Committee the Committee for the year ended Performance and reward during 2016 31 December 2016.
Base salaries Executive Directors Base salaries for each of the Joint Chief Executives in 2016 were For most of the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised unchanged from the previous year.
The base salary for the Finance Melvyn Egglenton Chair, James Hambro, David Rough and Rebecca Director was increased by 9.3%, in line with increases for employees Worthington until 23 August 2016 when James Hambro retired from across the Group as a whole.
the Board and its Committees.
Having originally joined the Board on 1 October 2015, I was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 23 August 2016 when I also succeeded Melvyn Egglenton as Chair of Performance related bonus Executive Directors the Committee.
The Groups performance during 2016 resulted in an increase of 29.4% in the Normalised Income Profit from 47.2 million to a record level of The primary role of the Committee is to determine and recommend 61.1 million.
The EPRA NAV also increased by 17.7p per share from to the Board the specific pay and benefits packages for the Executive 111.2p to a record 128.9p.
This growth was after payment of dividends Directors and senior employees, to ensure that they are fairly but of 5.35p per share, making a total gain over the year of 23.1p per share responsibly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups or 20.8%.
In this context, the Committee is satisfied that the level of overall performance taking into account their existing contractual payment under the annual bonus scheme for the Executive Directors entitlements.
The Committees objective is to support the business is appropriate at 85% of the maximum.
strategy of the Group details of which are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 23, to promote the Groups long-term success Share schemes Executive Directors and to align remuneration with shareholders returns.
The Committee PSP awards In respect of PSP awards with a three-year performance also administers the Groups share incentive plans.
period ended 31 December 2016, under which 50% of each award is measured against NAV targets and 50% against TSR targets, 100% In performing its role and fulfilling its objectives, the Committee of the NAV part and 0% of the TSR part is expected to vest.
welcomes shareholder feedback and our response to the feedback received following the 2016 Annual General Meeting is reflected in Founder LTIP awards The Founder LTIP was established at IPO in the changes we are proposing to the remuneration policy for 2017.
November 2005 to reward the Joint Chief Executives as founder Directors for the delivery of high absolute returns over an extended period.
Under this plan, if the growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends and other returns to shareholders exceeds compound growth of more than 10% per annum over a fixed three-year performance period, the Joint Chief Executives each receive awards in shares equivalent in value to 12.5% of the excess growth.
The plan is repeated over consecutive three-year performance periods and in 2016, for the first time since its establishment in 2005, an issue of shares under the Founder LTIP was made to the Joint Chief Executives.
These awards were made in relation to the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2015.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 1.
Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee continued The agreement of the Joint Chief Executives to termination of the Founder Fees Non-Executive Directors LTIP at the end of the current three-year performance period represents During the year, James Hambro, the Non-Executive Chairman of the avery significant concession on their part and reflects the Boards Company, and Humphrey Price, the Chair of the Audit Committee, both understanding of the strength of shareholder views on this matter.
retired from the Board and were succeeded in those positions by Melvyn Egglenton and Rebecca Worthington respectively.
The roles of Senior When the Founder LTIP terminates, the Committee will review all aspects Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, of executive remuneration and will consult with shareholders at that time.
previously both held by Melvyn Egglenton, were assumed by David Rough and by me.
In view of the changed responsibilities, the fees The changes to the Joint Chief Executives contractual remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors, which had not been amended packages now being proposed by the Committee are set out below.
since 1 January 2013, were reviewed and benchmarked against FTSE The Committee believes that the proposed changes constitute 250 companies and FTSE 250 property companies.
The benchmarking material improvements to those packages from the Companys and exercise indicated that the Non-Executive Directors fees were below theshareholders points of view.
However, should shareholders not market level and, in the case of the Chairman, significantly below market votein favour of these changes, then the Committee will be obliged level.
As a result of this review, the fees payable to the Chairman and tocontinue to operate in accordance with the terms of the existing Non-Executive Directors were increased with effect from 23 August Remuneration Policy approved by the shareholders at the 2014 Annual 2016.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors General Meeting.
participated in the determination of their own pay.
Further details of these changes are given in the Single Figure Table on page 38.
The Committee proposes that the terms of the Joint Chief Executives contractual remuneration packages remain as for 2016 subject to the Responding to shareholder feedback proposed following modifications: remuneration policy for 2017 At the Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2016, 23.4% of votes were 1.
They will not participate in future PSP awards.
cast against the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Their increase in base salary will not exceed the average increase shareholders who voted against the Remuneration Report indicated foremployees across the Group as a whole.
that their main concerns were about the Founder LTIP and particularly 3.
They will be required to hold shares to the value of 200% of their about the scale of the first Founder LTIP payout which was made base salary whilst they remain Joint Chief Executives rather than in2016.
In relation to the Founder LTIP: In light of these shareholder concerns, the Committee spent some a.
It will be discontinued following completion of the current three-year time considering whether it would be possible to discontinue the performance period ending 31 December 2018 and the payment of existing Founder LTIP and replace it with a new long-term incentive plan any share awards in respect of that performance period.
for all senior executives, including the Joint Chief Executives, which b.
Award shares may be satisfied by the issue of new shares and or would better reflect current shareholders views and current corporate the use of market purchase shares.
governance recommendations on executive remuneration and LTIPs.
c. Awards of shares for the current performance period will be subject to a two-year holding period whilst the Director remains Having taken legal advice, the Committee has established that the employed as Joint Chief Executive, subject to their being allowed Founder LTIP is a legally binding contract between the Company and to sell sufficient shares to cover any income tax and national the Joint Chief Executives and cannot be discontinued without their insurance obligations arising as a result of an award.
The Joint Chief Executives indicated that they would not requirement will not apply in the event of a change of control of provide such agreement unless the Founder LTIP was replaced with the Company.
another LTIP on a comparable scale.
The Committee therefore d. Awards for the current performance period will be subject to focusedits efforts on obtaining the agreement of the Joint Chief malus and clawback, with potential awards subject to Executives to a number of changes to the Founder LTIP and to their cancellation or reduction and actual awards subject to clawback overall remuneration packages.
This resulted in a set of proposed over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a amendments which, in the Committees opinion, represent a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or materialimprovement from the point of view of the Company and its fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
shareholders and will continue to incentivise the Joint Chief Executives.
In relation to future awards under the annual performance related bonus scheme: The Chairman of the Company and I offered to meet with a number a.
The potential annual bonus will be increased from 75% of base ofmajor shareholders to discuss the proposed changes and, as a result, salary to 100% of base salary.
in January 2017, consulted with shareholders accounting for 45% of the b.
The awards will also be subject to malus and clawback on similar Companys shares.
terms to those set out above for the Founder LTIP.
Given the concerns that some shareholders continued to express about the Founder LTIP in those meetings, despite the proposed changes, the Committee has held further discussions with the Joint Chief Executives who have now agreed in addition to the proposed changes, to the termination of the Founder LTIP following completion of the current three-year performance period ending 31 December 2018 and allowing for the payment of any share awards in respect of that performance period, if shareholders approve the proposed Remuneration Policy.
36 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Quite separately from the above proposed changes, as part of its review of the Founder LTIP, the Committee has also taken the opportunity to clarify some of the terms applicable on a takeover of the Company occurring before the end of a performance period, when the performance period is shortened to end on the date of change of control.
In such event: growth in EPRA NAV per share over the shortened performance period will be measured by reference to the difference between the base EPRA NAV per share and the offer price per share under the relevant offer rather than the higher of EPRA NAV per share and the offer price per share : any amount vesting will be calculated by reference to the issued share capital of the Company before dilution by shares issued to satisfy awards thereby avoiding an increase in the multiplier for thepurposes of calculating the share award entitlement : and measurement of the target EPRA NAV per share for compound growth purposes will be on a weekly basis rather than a complete number of years within the performance period.
The following report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013 and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report is presented in two parts the Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The parts of the Annual Report onRemuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in that report.
The Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration Policy Report are not subject to audit.
Ordinary resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2017 to approve separately the Remuneration Policy Report which is subject to a binding shareholder vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration and this Statement which are subject to an advisory vote.
Margaret Young Chair of the Remuneration Committee 19 March 2017 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 2.
Annual report on remuneration Introduction This part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee provides details on how the Groups current approved Remuneration Policy was applied in the year ended 31 December 2016 and will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
David Rough and Margaret Young were appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015.
James Hambro retired from the Board on 23 August 2016.
Richard Mully retired from the Board on 8 June 2015.
Richard Cotton retired from the Board on 30 September 2015.
Humphrey Price retired from the Board on 6 June 2016.
38 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Salary and fees Salaries and fees comprise base salary for Executive Directors and fees for Non-Executive Directors.
Effective from 23 August 2016, it was decided to increase the Chairmans fees from 89,250 per annum and 3,000 per annum in respect of individual Committee membership to 150,000 per annum, inclusive of fees in respect of individual Committee membership.
It was also decided to increase the fees for Non-Executive Directors from 42,000 per annum and 3,000 per annum in respect of individual Committee membership to 48,000 per annum, inclusive of fees in respect of individual Committee membership.
The additional fees for the Chairs of the Audit and the Remuneration Committees were each increased from 7,500 per annum to 10,000 per annum.
The additional fees for the role of Senior Independent Director remained unchanged at 7,500 per annum.
Taxable benefits Taxable benefits comprise the monetary or deemed monetary value of the car allowance, private fuel and private medical insurance for the Executive Director and immediate family, and life assurance and income protection insurance provided by the Group.
No analysis of the individual elements of taxable benefits has been given as the amounts are not considered to be significant in the context of an understanding of total remuneration.
Performance related bonus The maximum potential bonus for the year ended 31 December 2016 for each of the Executive Directors was 75% of base salary 2015: 75%.
The 2016 bonus awards were measured against the following targets: Target Performance measure Actual achieved % award granted Financial Targets Normalised Income Profit before tax from 48 Normalised Income Profit before tax 20% awarded up to 40% of award million to 52 million, with adjustment for any capital 61.6 million.
raising excluding the Founder LTIP and Performance Share Plan shares, to achieve full award.
Normalised Total Profit before tax from 48 million Normalised Total Profit before tax 20% awarded to 64 million, with adjustment for any capital raising 66.0 million.
excluding the Founder LTIP and Performance Share Plan shares, to achieve full award.
Occupancy Cost The occupancy target range is a net improvement of Improvement of 131,069 square metres 10% awarded Efficiency Targets 50,000 square metres to 100,000 square metres pro-rata.
The cost efficiency target range is an Administrative expenses rent ratio of 15.4%.
10% awarded administrative expenses rent ratio of 16.0% to 17.5% pro-rata.
Corporate Target Production and execution of a two-year operational Production of clearly defined two-year 15% awarded up to 20% of award business plan.
business plan and delivery against that plan To submit a succession plan to the Board.
had not, in the view of the Committee, been Development of strategy to include asset, liability fully met.
In the light of this, it had been and hedging strategies.
difficult to formulate a clear succession plan.
Discretionary Based on overall performance.
Restricted to reflect the lower than expected 10% awarded Element up to 20% achievement of the Corporate Target.
ofaward In total, the Committee awarded bonuses to each Joint Chief Executive of 267,750, representing 85% of his maximum potential bonus, and 188,063 to the Finance Director, representing 85% of his maximum bonus potential.
Share schemes Performance Share Plan The value included under share schemes includes an estimate of the value of the PSP awards that will vest subject to TSR and NAV performance targets for the three-year period that ended on 31 December 2016.
Based on an assessment of performance targets as at 19 March 2017, it is estimated that the Group will achieve 0% of the TSR ranking and 100% of the NAV growth ranking i. e. a total vesting of 50%.
The value of the share awards expected to vest is based on 1.09, being the average share price over the last quarter of 2016.
To the extent that the share awards vest, the options over the vested shares will become exercisable in three equal annual tranches from April 2017 to April 2019.
In the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015, it was estimated that the Group achieved 0% of the TSR ranking and 75% of the NAV growth ranking at the time of publishing the report.
The actual rankings did not change.
The share price used to calculate the value of the awards in 2015 was 1.17.
The share price on the day that the awards vested was 1.08.
The comparative amounts disclosed in the 2015 table above have been restated to reflect these changes to the estimated value.
Share schemes Founder LTIP As part of the founder arrangements established at IPO in 2005, each Joint Chief Executive is entitled to a share award dependent on Company performance over consecutive three-year performance periods.
The current performance period runs from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 2.
Annual report on remuneration continued Any amount payable under the Founder LTIP is to be satisfied by the award of ordinary shares of the Company.
The number of shares awarded depends on the Companys net asset value growth per share including dividends and other returns to shareholders exceeding a compound growth rate of 10% per annum the Target NAV over a defined three-year period.
For the purposes of the Founder LTIP, net asset value is taken tobe the diluted net asset value adjusted in accordance with the guidelines issued by the European Public Real Estate Organisation EPRA NAV.
To the extent that EPRA NAV per ordinary share including dividends and other returns to shareholders exceeds the Target NAV per share, 12.5% of such excess multiplied by the number of ordinary shares in issue will be payable to each of the Joint Chief Executives as an award.
The value included under share schemes for each of the Joint Chief Executives includes the value of the Founder LTIP awards vesting in that financial year.
For the year ended 31 December 2015, 22,906,127 shares were due to be issued to each of the Joint Chief Executives under the Founder LTIP in respect of the three-year performance period which ended on 31 December 2015.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Part 3, the estimated value of those shares was included in the Single Figure Table in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2015, being 1.17 per share, resulting in 26,909,470 being attributed to each of the two Founder Directors.
The share price on 15 March 2016, the day that the awards vested, was 1.09 per share.
Whilst 22,906,127 shares were due to be issued to each of the Joint Chief Executives under the Founder LTIP in respect of the three-year performance period which ended on 31 December 2015, they surrendered part of their awards equal in value to their PAYE income tax and employees national insurance liabilities due on vesting of the awards and the Company settled those liabilities on their behalf.
Each Joint Chief Executive was therefore issued with 12,140,247 shares.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, no Founder LTIP awards vested since the current three-year performance period commenced on 1 January 2016 and ends on 31 December 2018.
For the current performance period, the base NAV per share is 111.2p per share and the Target NAV is 148.0p per share.
Pensions The value included represents the amounts paid by the Company to each Executive Director to facilitate his own pension arrangements.
None of the Executive Directors have a prospective right to a defined benefit pension.
Payments to past Directors No payments were made during the year.
Payments for loss of office No payments were made during the year.
Share scheme interests awarded during the year Performance Share Plan Awards made to the Executive Directors under the PSP during the year were as follows: Number of Share price options Award date for award p Face value Performance period Exercise period awarded Ian Watson 14 April 2016 108.10 315,000 01 16 12 18 04 19 04 21 291,397 Morgan Jones 14 April 2016 108.10 315,000 01 16 12 18 04 19 04 21 291,397 Richard Lowes 14 April 2016 108.10 221,250 01 16 12 18 04 19 04 21 204,672 Face value has been calculated using the share price at date of grant.
None of the options awarded during the year lapsed or vested.
In accordance with the current approved Remuneration Policy, annual awards to Ian Watson and Morgan Jones under the PSP are made in the form of nil cost options subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary but limited to 75% of base salary.
In accordance with the current approved Remuneration Policy, annual awards to Richard Lowes under the PSP are made in the form of nil-cost share options subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary.
As noted on page 39, the PSP awards vest based on a TSR and NAV growth ranking and 25% of the PSP awards vest if the minimum performance threshold is met.
C. Directors shareholdings and share interests Shareholding guidelines The Company introduced a policy requiring Executive Directors to maintain a minimum holding of shares in the Company at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Within three years of their appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build, and then maintain, a holding of shares in the Company equal to one years base salary.
The current shareholdings of the Executive Directors on 31 December 2016 compared to their respective base salaries are: Ian Watson 2,476%, Morgan Jones 2,476% and Richard Lowes 656%.
40 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors interests as at 31 December 2016 or date of resignation Shares subject to Founder LTIP Shares Shares subject to PSP awards awards Unvested with Vested but Exercised Ordinary performance not Vested and during the shares measures exercisable exercisable year Vested Morgan Jones 9,164,056 847,989 151,706 391,744 Ian Watson 9,164,056 847,989 151,706 391,744 Richard Lowes 1,704,107 559,564 97,124 253,892 Melvyn Egglenton 72,406 David Rough 75,000 Margaret Young Rebecca Worthington James Hambro 375,000 Humphrey Price 200,000 None of the ordinary shares held by Directors are subject to performance measures.
There have been no changes to the beneficial and other interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of Hansteen Holdings PLC as shown on this page from 31 December 2016 to 19 March 2017.
Non-audited information D. External directorships The Executive Directors are permitted, subject to the prior written consent of the Board, to accept appointments as Non-Executive Directors on other boards so long as none of such interests prejudice the business interests of the Company or of any Group company.
None of the Executive Directors have any fee-paying external directorships.
E. Performance graphs and Joint Chief Executives remuneration table The following graphs compare the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR to two FTSE Real Estate indices.
TSR measures share price growth, with dividends deemed to be reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
The comparator indices used have been chosen by the Committee as they are considered the most appropriate benchmarks against which to assess the relative performance of the Company for this purpose and for these time periods.
The graphs are based on underlying data provided by Thomson Reuters Datastream.
Performance since flotation The following graph details the Companys TSR performance since flotation.
Prior to 6 October 2009, the index used for comparison is the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index which up until that point the Company would have been a constituent member of.
From 6 October 2009, the index used for comparison is the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index, to reflect the Companys conversion into a REIT with effect from that date.
Annual report on remuneration continued Eight-year performance The following eight-year performance graph compares solely against the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index.
300 Hansteen Index 250 200 150 100 50 0 01 01 09 31 12 09 31 12 10 31 12 11 31 12 12 31 12 13 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 16 Joint Chief Executives remuneration table The following table shows the single figure remuneration and percentage of bonus and incentive vesting for the Joint Chief Executives for the last eight years.
Long-term Annual bonus incentive payout vesting rates against against Single maximum maximum figure opportunity opportunity Year Joint Chief Executive 000 % % 2016 Morgan Jones 985 85.0 50.00 Ian Watson 989 85.0 50.00 2015 Morgan Jones 25,863 61.7 37.50 Ian Watson 25,866 61.7 37.50 2014 Morgan Jones 1,106 97.5 50.00 Ian Watson 1,109 97.5 50.00 2013 Morgan Jones 1,050 97.5 56.25 Ian Watson 1,052 97.5 56.25 2012 Morgan Jones 789 82.9 Ian Watson 793 82.9 2011 Morgan Jones 667 95.0 Ian Watson 671 95.0 2010 Morgan Jones 600 87.7 Ian Watson 604 87.7 2009 Morgan Jones 497 89.8 Ian Watson 499 89.8 As described on pages 39 and 40, the Joint Chief Executives participate in the Founder LTIP.
The potential share entitlement is not subject to a maximum opportunity, but based on performance against set criteria.
The long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity therefore relate only to the Performance Share Plan.
F. Percentage change in remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Joint Chief Executives for the last financial year compared with the remuneration of all employees.
Taxable Performance Salary fees benefits related bonus % change 2015 to 2016 % % % Joint Chief Executives 0.2 38 1 All other employees 10.8 2.8 15 1.
Excluding joiners and leavers during the year.
42 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements G. Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the relative importance of overall expenditure on pay by the Group compared to the Groups key financial measures and dividends paid to shareholders in the year.
29% 61.1 56.2 47.2 29 % 39.8 36.3 67 % 11.8 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Normalised Income profit Dividends Overall expenditure on pay Normalised Income Profit has been chosen as a metric for this comparison as the Directors believe that it represents underlying earnings of the Group and is a key performance indicator.
The percentage movement reflects the year-on-year change.
The reduction in dividends reflects the fact that the previous year included a special dividend of 20.5 million.
The reduction in the overall expenditure on pay reflects the fact that the previous year included a charge for the Founder LTIP awards which has not been repeated in the current year.
H. The Committee and its advisers Melvyn Egglenton was Chairman of the Committee until 23 August 2016, after which he was succeeded by Margaret Young.
Melvyn Egglenton remained a member of the Committee.
Other members of the Committee were James Hambro, until 23 August 2016, Rebecca Worthington and David Rough.
The Committee meets regularly, and no less than twice a year.
In 2016, the Committee met six times.
Details of attendance at meetings can be found in the Corporate Governance Report.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, updated following a review undertaken in October 2016, are available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk The performance of the Committee was assessed during the year as part of the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees and was found to be operating effectively.
The Committee seeks external advice to assist it where appropriate.
 were appointed by the Committee in September 2015 following a review of the Companys remuneration advisers.
The Committee consulted  during the year and approved fees to them of 110,000, excluding VAT, for independent remuneration advice, charged on a time and expenses basis.
Having considered that  provided tax advisory and compliance services to the Company during the year, the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by  is both independent and objective.
 adhere to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee seeks internal support from the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary where necessary, and they may all attend Committee meetings by invitation, but are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration.
Implementation of policy for 2017 We summarise below the key elements of the 2017 remuneration package for the Executive Directors in line with the current approved Remuneration Policy and subject to adjustment in line with the proposed Remuneration Policy set out on pages 46 to 52 if the proposed policy is approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2017.
Those key elements are: Fixed pay benefits base annual salary and benefits, pension contributions and insurance cover.
Variable annual pay cash payments under the annual performance related bonus scheme.
Variable long-term pay share-based long-term incentives under the PSP and the Founder LTIP with performance criteria.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 2.
Annual report on remuneration continued Fixed pay benefits The Committee has approved an increase to base annual salary of 5% for Morgan Jones, Ian Watson and Richard Lowes with effect from 1 January 2017.
No increase has been approved for the Non-Executive Directors.
2016 2017 Salary Salary 000 000 Executive Directors Morgan Jones 420 440 Ian Watson 420 440 Richard Lowes 295 310 No changes will be made to pension and benefit provision.
Variable annual pay The Board has set new targets for the Executive Directors for the annual bonus in line with the Groups strategic, financial and operational objectives.
In line with the proposed Remuneration Policy, the maximum potential bonus is set at 100% of base salary for each of the Joint Chief Executives.
In line with the current approved Remuneration Policy and the proposed Remuneration Policy, the maximum potential bonus is set at 100% for the Finance Director.
The changes to the annual bonus targets are within the scope of the current approved Remuneration Policy and the proposed Remuneration Policy.
The bonus criteria for 2017 include four elements: Target Performance measure % of potential award Financial Targets Normalised Income Profit before tax from 63 million to 67 million, with Up to 20% of award up to 40% of award adjustment for any capital raising excluding the Founder LTIP and Performance Share Plan shares, to achieve full award.
Normalised Total Profit before tax from 65 million to 71 million, with Up to 20% of award adjustment for any capital raising excluding the Founder LTIP and Performance Share Plan shares, to achieve full award.
Occupancy Cost Efficiency Targets The occupancy target range is set at a minimum maximum range of 33,000 Up to 10% of award up to 20% of award square metres representing 10% to 20% of opening vacancy.
The cost efficiency target range is an administrative expenses rent ratio of 15% Up to 10% of award to 16% pro-rata.
Corporate Target Production of a clear plan for strategy and finance.
Up to 20% of award up to 20% of award Further and regular consideration of the options in relation to the Convertible Bonds.
Implement a move to electronic Board Papers.
Carry out a review of financial advisers.
Discretionary Element Based on overall performance.
Up to 20% of award up to 20% of award Performance Share Plan Annual awards are subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary but, in accordance with the current approved Remuneration Policy, limited to 75% of base salary for each of the Joint Chief Executives in view of their participation in the Founder LTIP.
If the proposed Remuneration Policy is approved by shareholders, no awards will be made to either of the Joint Chief Executives for 2017.
The Finance Director will be awarded nil-cost share options under the PSP with a value at grant of 100% of his base salary, which is within the scope of the current and the proposed Remuneration Policy.
The award will vest based on two separate performance conditions: 50% will vest by reference to the Groups TSR ranking and50% by reference to the Groups EPRA NAV ranking, in each case relative to a comparator group over a three-year performance period.
To the extent that an award vests, the options over the vested shares will become exercisable in three equal annual tranches following the end of the performance period.
The comparator group is determined by the Committee and comprises a peer group of companies in the property sector.
When granting awards, the Committee reserves the right to vary the constituents of the comparator group or take such other actions as it considers reasonable in the event that any member of the comparator group ceases to exist, or its shares cease to be listed in the Official List of the London Stock Exchange orother recognised stock exchange, or it is so changed as to make it, in the opinion of the Committee, unsuitable as a member of the comparator group.
The percentage of the award that vests is subject to the following schedule: TSR NAV growth ranking Vesting Below Median Nil Median 25% Between Median and Upper Quartile On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% in proportion to the Companys ranking between Median and Upper Quartile.
44 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Founder LTIP Under the Founder LTIP, the current three-year performance measurement period commenced on 1 January 2016 and will end on 31 December 2018.
Each Founder Director will be entitled to an award of shares with a value equivalent to 12.5% of the Companys NAV growth per share including dividends and other returns to shareholders in excess of a 10% per annum compound growth in the NAV per share over the performance measurement period.
If the proposed Remuneration Policy is approved by shareholders, the awards will be subject to the following conditions: Award shares may be satisfied by the issue of new shares and or the use of market purchase shares.
Shares awarded will be subject to a two-year holding period whilst a Director remains employed as Joint Chief Executive, subject to his being allowed to sell sufficient shares to cover any income tax and national insurance obligations arising as a result of the award.
This requirement will not apply in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Awards will be subject to malus and clawback, with potential awards subject to cancellation or reduction and actual awards subject to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 June 2016, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Annual Report on Remuneration were as set out below.
The current Remuneration Policy was most recently put to shareholders and approved at the Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2014, and votes cast by proxy and by a poll at the meeting were as set out below.
Votes withheld Resolution text Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast abstentions 6 June 2016 Approval of Annual Report on Remuneration 427,998,625 76.60% 130,743,937 23.40% 558,742,562 48,623,234 9 June 2014 Approval of Remuneration Policy 499,072,167 92.92% 38,009,265 7.08% 537,081,432 45,239 The Committees deliberations regarding the votes cast against approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration, and the action taken by the Committee, are summarised in the Annual Statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on pages 35 to 37.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 3.
Directors remuneration policy report This part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee sets out the proposed Remuneration Policy for Directors of the Company which will be subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
This policy is intended to take effect immediately following shareholder approval.
Policy overview In setting the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the following: the strategy of the Company: the need to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre individuals: alignment between remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Groups business objectives: alignment between remuneration and the interests of the shareholders: pay and benefits practice and employment conditions within the Group and the geographic regions in which the Group operates: and current market trends and practices with regard to equivalent roles in groups of similar size, complexity and geographic spread as well as their relative performance.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee will be committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and will seek the views of significant shareholders when any major changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee will take into account the views of significant shareholders when formulating and implementing the policy.
The Committee will also consider shareholder feedback received in relation to the Annual General Meeting each year.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Whilst it does not consult with the Groups employees directly, the Committee will consider pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when considering the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
When considering base salary increases, the Committee will consider the general level of salary increases across the Group.
Salary increases for Executive Directors will be aligned with those received elsewhere in the Group unless the Committee considers that specific circumstances require a different level of salary increase for any of the Executive Directors.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below the main Board will reflect the seniority of the role and, therefore, the components and levels of remuneration for different employees may differ from the policy for Executives as set out in the Future Policy Table below.
Other than the Joint Chief Executives participation in the Founder LTIP, the structure of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors is generally consistent with that for senior management.
Legacy arrangements The Committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments and payments for loss of office that fall outside the Remuneration Policy as described below where the terms of payment remain unchanged and were agreed before the policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company.
Such payments could be made where, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards ofvariable remuneration and, in relation to an award of shares, the terms of payment agreed at the time the award was granted.
Details of any payments will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for that year.
Operation of the annual bonus arrangements and share schemes In operating and administering the annual bonus scheme and the Group share schemes in accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules, where relevant, the Committee will retain certain discretions which will include, but not be limited to, the following: the selection of participants: the timing of the grant of an award and payments: the size of an award within the limits of the contractual obligations if part of a legacy agreement or, if not subject to a legacy arrangement, inaccordance with the Future Policy Table as set out below: the determination of the extent to which performance measures have been met and the corresponding vesting or payment levels, including time pro-rating of awards: the action to be taken when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers in accordance with the relevant rules of each incentive plan and the appropriate treatment chosen, including pro-rating of awards: adjustments to awards, if any are required, in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : the annual review of performance measures, weighting and targets for the annual bonus scheme and PSP: and the method by which awards can be satisfied i. e. through the use of issue of new shares, the funding of the Companys employee benefit trust to purchase shares, the use of treasury shares, by way of cash payment or by settlement of income tax and national insurance liabilities on the employees behalf.
The Committee will also retain the ability to adjust the targets and or set different performance measures for the annual bonus scheme and PSP ifevents occur e. g. a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to consider that the targets and measures are nolonger appropriate to achieve the original purpose of incentivising the Executive Directors, provided that the revised targets performance measures are no less challenging bearing in mind the revised circumstances.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
46 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements A.
Future policy table The following table summarises the key elements of the Groups proposed Remuneration Policy for Directors.
Executive Directors Fixed pay Element Base salary Purpose and link to strategy To attract, retain and motivate high-calibre individuals.
To provide competitive non-variable remuneration relative to the external market.
To recognise and reward performance, skills and experience.
Operation Normally reviewed in January each year having regard to market practice, to Group and individual performance, to general increases across the Group and to the individuals experience, skills, qualifications and scope ofresponsibility.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum.
Salary increases will generally be limited to the average increase in salary for employees across the Group as a whole, although the Committee has discretion to increase above this level to take account of individual circumstances such as increase in scope and responsibility, individual development and performance in role, and alignment to market level.
Performance measures None, but individual and Group performance will be considered when deciding salary levels.
Element Pension Purpose and link to strategy To help recruit and retain high-calibre individuals reflecting their skills and experience.
Operation Individuals will be responsible for their own pension arrangements and funds will be provided by the Company to enable them to facilitate those arrangements.
Maximum opportunity Employer contribution of maximum of 16% of base salary.
Element Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package appropriate to the role and location of individuals.
Operation Benefits will comprise the provision of a company car allowance, private fuel, private medical insurance for the individual and immediate family, life assurance and income protection insurance.
Individuals will also be provided with the technology required to enable them to carry out their duties effectively and efficiently.
The benefits package may be adjusted by the Committee from time to time to reflect an individuals particular circumstances and to align to market level.
In addition to the above, other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum as the costs of provision may fluctuate depending on individual circumstances and changes in provider costs, but the Committee must be satisfied that the cost is reasonable in the particular individuals circumstances.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 3.
Directors remuneration policy report continued Executive Directors continued Variable pay Element Annual performance related bonus scheme Purpose and link to strategy To reward excellent financial performance and achievement of strategic, financial and operational objectives linked to investor expectations at the beginning of the year.
Operation Measures and targets will be reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year and the levels of award will be determined by the Committee after the year-end based on the performance against targets.
Bonus awards will be paid in cash, will be non-pensionable and will be subject to malus and clawback, with potential awards subject to cancellation or reduction and actual awards subject to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Maximum opportunity Up to 100% of base salary.
Performance measures A combination of financial and non-financial targets, such as occupancy and cost efficiency targets, corporate targets and a discretionary element to reward overall performance.
The exact measures, weightings and targets will be determined by the Committee each year taking into account the Groups key strategic priorities, financial and operational objectives, and the budget for the year.
Details of the targets set for 2016 under thecurrent approved Remuneration Policy and their relative weightings are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration at page 39.
Details of the targets set for 2017 under the proposed Remuneration Policy and their relative weightings are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration at page 44.
Element Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward outstanding performance and ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
Operation Awards of conditional shares or share options on an annual basis.
Awards will normally vest no earlier than three years from grant, subject to continued employment and performance conditions.
Awards will be subject to malus and clawback, with awards subject to cancellation or reduction and, after awards have vested, to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Maximum opportunity Annual awards subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary, but the Joint Chief Executives will not be eligible for awards in view of their participation in the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Performance measures Targets are set by the Committee in accordance with the strategic, financial and operational objectives of the Group at the time the awards are granted and measured over a three-year performance period commencing with the beginning of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
Details of the targets set for 2016 under the current approved Remuneration Policy and their relative weightings are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration at page 39.
Element Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Legacy contractual arrangements forming part of the Joint Chief Executives service agreements established at IPO November 2005 to incentivise them and to reward the delivery of exceptional returns to shareholders that will be discontinued at the end of the current three-year performance period ending 31 December 2018.
The Founder LTIP is not available to any other Directors.
Operation Contractual rights to share awards operating over a three-year performance where the Companys EPRA NAV growth per share including dividends and other returns to shareholders exceeds 33.1% over the three-year performance period Target EPRA NAV.
The current, and final, performance period is 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 and awards in relation to that period will be subject to the following conditions: Award shares may be satisfied by the issue of new shares and or the use of market purchase shares.
Shares awarded will be subject to a two-year holding period whilst a Director remains employed as Joint Chief Executive, subject to their being allowed to sell sufficient shares to cover any income tax and national insurance obligations arising as a result of the award.
Awards will be subject to malus and clawback, with potential awards subject to cancellation or reduction andactual awards subject to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Maximum opportunity For each Joint Chief Executive, an award of shares, subject to the above conditions, with a value equal to 12.5% of the EPRA NAV per share growth in excess of the Target EPRA NAV per share multiplied by the number of shares in issue at the end of the relevant three-year performance period.
Performance measures In the relevant three-year performance period, the EPRA NAV per share will be required to have compound growth in excess of 10% per annum.
The EPRA NAV per share growth and the Target EPRA NAV per share will be measured after including dividends and other returns to shareholders.
The performance measure has been chosen to reward the Joint Chief Executives if the Groups return to shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
48 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive Directors continued Variable pay Element Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategy To demonstrate the commitment of individuals to the Company and to ensure alignment of their personal interests with those of the Company and the shareholders.
Operation Within three years of their appointment, individuals will be required to build and then maintain a shareholding in the Company equal in value to their pre-tax base salary.
In the case of each of the Joint Chief Executives, this requirement will be 200% of their base salary in view of their participation in the Founder LTIP.
Non-Executive Directors Element Fees Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
Operation Fees will be reviewed periodically.
Non-Executive Directors will not participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive schemes and will receive no other benefits.
Maximum opportunity There will be no individual maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
Fees will be set at a level to reflect time commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role and by reference to surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of companies with comparable market capitalisation.
The Chairman will be paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Non-Executive Directors will be paid a basic fee plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or for acting as Senior Independent Director.
These will be determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors will participate in the determination of their own pay.
Overall fees will be required to remain within the limit in the Articles of Association of 750,000 in aggregate.
Notes: The Groups proposed Remuneration Policy set out above incorporates the following changes from the current approved Remuneration Policy, as described in the Annual Statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee: The termination of the Founder LTIP at the end of the current performance period ending 31 December 2018.
The limitation on the increase in base salary for the Joint Chief Executives, which will not exceed the average for employees across the Group as a whole.
The cessation of PSP awards to either of the Joint Chief Executives.
The requirement for the Joint Chief Executives to hold shares to the value of 200% of their base salary whilst they remain Joint Chief Executives rather than 100%, as at present.
The increase in potential annual bonus for the Joint Chief Executives under the annual performance related bonus scheme from 75% of base salary to 100% of base salary.
Modification to the terms of the Founder LTIP to introduce a two-year holding period for future awards of shares.
The inclusion of malus and clawback provisions in awards under the annual performance related bonus scheme, the PSP and the Founder LTIP.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 3.
Directors remuneration policy report continued B.
Recruitment and promotion policy If it becomes necessary for the Company to appoint a new Executive Director, whether recruited externally or promoted from within the Company, the Committee will seek to align his her remuneration package in accordance with the policy outlined below: Element of remuneration Policy Base salary Starting base salary will be set in accordance with the roles and responsibilities of the individual together with his her relevant skills and experience, taking into account the market rates for companies of comparable size and complexity, theexisting remuneration arrangements for other Executive Directors and the business circumstances.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, to reflect the individuals experience at the date of appointment, theCommittee may award a series of increases over time, potentially above inflation, and increases offered to the wider employee population, to achieve the desired salary position subject to performance and market conditions.
Pension An employer contribution in respect of the individuals own pension arrangements will be provided at the same level as that provided to existing Executive Directors.
Benefits Benefits will be provided to a new appointee on the same basis as those provided to existing Executive Directors.
Where necessary, the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment, and flexibility is retained for the Company to pay reasonable legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual in relation to his her appointment.
Annual bonus The annual bonus will operate and be assessed on an ongoing basis in the same manner as outlined in the Remuneration Policy for the current Executive Directors, as described above and in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
However, depending on the timing and nature of appointment, it may be necessary to set tailored performance criteria for the first bonus award.
Depending on the timing of the appointment of a new Executive Director, it may be inappropriate to provide a bonus for the initial year if there is insufficient time to assess performance for that period.
In such circumstances, the amount relating to the months employed in the initial year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that the reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis.
The maximum level of bonus potential will be 100% of base salary.
However, in the year of appointment, it would be pro-rated to reflect the employment period during the bonus year.
Performance Share Plan A new appointee will be eligible for consideration for an award under the PSP as set out in the Remuneration Policy for the existing Executive Directors.
The Committee may apply different performance measures, performance periods and or vesting periods for initial awards made following appointment, subject to the rules of the PSP, if it determines that the circumstances and timing ofthe recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale behind any such decision will be clearly explained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements of the relevant year under report.
Subsequent awards would be measured against the same performance metrics as existing Executive Directors.
In respect of an internal promotion to the position of Executive Director, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their original terms.
The ongoing maximum annual award value will be 150% of base salary.
Buy-out awards In order to facilitate an external recruitment, the Committee will have discretion to offer additional cash and or sharebased elements to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an Executive Director leaving a previous employer.
Whendetermining the amount and structure of any buy-out awards, the Committee will take into account the following: the form of remuneration e. g. cash or shares: the timing of expected payment vesting: and expected value taking into account the likelihood of achieving the existing performance criteria.
The Committees intention will be to make any replacement awards on a comparable basis to the forfeited awards and replacement share awards if used, will, to the extent possible, be granted using the Companys existing share schemes.
Ifnecessary, however, awards may be granted outside these schemes and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
New Non-Executive Directors will be appointed by way of letters of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors base fees, including those of the Chairman, will be set at a competitive market level reflecting experience, responsibility and time commitment.
Fees will be reviewed annually.
Additional fees will be payable in line with those paid to existing Non-Executive Directors for the Chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, for individual membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and for the additional responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee will always seek to ensure that arrangements in respect of appointments to Executive Director and Non-Executive Director positions are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders and that the pay is appropriate.
50 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements C. Service contracts It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have rolling contracts providing for a maximum of 12 months notice.
Notice period by either Executive Directors Effective date of contract Company or Director Morgan Jones Joint Chief Executive 22 November 2005 Not less than 12 months Ian Watson Joint Chief Executive 22 November 2005 Not less than 12 months Richard Lowes Finance Director 18 October 2010 Not less than 12 months The Non-Executive Directors each have specific terms of engagement and do not have service contracts with the Company.
They do not participate in the annual bonus scheme or long-term incentive schemes and they do not receive any other benefits.
Notice period by either Non-Executive Directors Effective date of engagement Company or Director 1 Melvyn Egglenton 9 June 2014 Not less than 3 months David Rough 1 October 2015 Not less than 3 months Rebecca Worthington 9 June 2014 Not less than 3 months Margaret Young 1 October 2015 Not less than 3 months 1.
Melvyn Egglenton entered into a new letter of engagement with effect from 23 August 2016 following his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive, will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
D. Loss of office Existing Executive Directors The Joint Chief Executives service agreements are each terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months notice.
If the Company gives notice to the relevant Executive except where termination is for cause, the Company must make a payment in lieu of notice of the Executives base salary plus an amount equal to the cost to the Company of providing all other contractual benefits over the immediately preceding 12-month period, including any contractual bonus payment made in that period, net of tax.
Payment under the Founder LTIP is dealt withbelow.
The Company reserves the right to require the Executive to take any outstanding holiday during any notice period or to make payment in lieu thereof.
The Company also has the right to terminate each of the Joint Chief Executives service agreements summarily without notice or payment in lieu of notice for material breach by the Executive of the relevant agreement that is for cause, e. g. gross misconduct.
Richard Lowes service agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months notice.
Once notice has been given by either party, the Company may, in its absolute discretion, terminate his employment at any time during the applicable notice period by making a payment in lieu of the remaining period of notice consisting of his base salary and the cost to the Company of providing all other contractual benefits under his service agreement for the remaining period of notice, net of tax but excluding any other entitlements or benefits referable to his employment, including annual bonus.
The Company reserves the right to require him to take any outstanding holiday during any notice period or to make payment in lieu thereof.
The Company may terminate Richard Lowes employment by giving less than 12 months notice and may require that he mitigates his losses by seeking alternative employment.
The Company shall assess his mitigation prospects in determining the amount of any payment in lieu of notice.
The Company also has the right to terminate Richard Lowes service agreement summarily without notice or payment in lieu of notice for cause.
New Executive Directors Notice periods for new Executive Directors will be limited to 12 months.
Once notice has been given by either party, the Company will reserve the right to terminate the Executive Directors employment at any time during the applicable notice period by making a payment in lieu of the remaining period of notice.
Consistent with best practice, any payment in lieu of notice will consist solely of the Executive Directors base salary and the cost to the Company of providing all other contractual benefits under his her service agreement for the remaining period of notice, net of tax, but will exclude annual bonus and other entitlements or benefits referable to his her employment.
The Company will also reserve the right to give less than 12 months notice and require the Executive Director to mitigate his her losses by seeking alternative employment, and will assess the Executive Directors mitigation prospects in determining the amount of any payment in lieu of notice.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued 3.
Directors remuneration policy report continued Founder LTIP Under the Founder LTIP, if either of the Joint Chief Executives is a good leaver e. g. on death or for ill health, disability, retirement or redundancy and including termination by the Company in breach of contract or unfair dismissal, awards are still subject to performance but the performance period is shortened to the date of cessation of employment.
Awards are forfeited where cessation of employment is for another reason, such as termination for cause.
Performance Share Plan The PSP rules incorporate the following leaver provisions: For good leavers e. g. on death or for ill health, disability, retirement or redundancy prior to the end of the relevant performance period, awards will vest over the number of shares reasonably determined by the Committee taking account of factors that the Committee reasonably considers relevant including, but not limited to, the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed and the extent to which any performance conditions have been or would have been satisfied if pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment.
For good leavers after the end of the performance period but before the vesting date of an award or a proportion of the award, awards will vest over the number of shares reasonably determined by the Committee, but the only factor the Committee may take into account in that determination is the proportion of the vesting period which has elapsed.
Where departure is for another reason, such as resignation or termination for cause, unvested awards are generally forfeited although the Committee has discretion to permit vesting up to a level not exceeding the good leaver level as determined above.
Vesting occurs on the date of the Committees determination on early vesting as described above, and exercise of options if appropriate ispermitted for a period determined by the Committee, but not exceeding 12 months from the date of cessation of employment.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors will not receive compensation for loss of office except in the following circumstances: When an offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company becomes wholly unconditional unless requested to continue in office by the Board, except where an offer is wholly unconditional from the outset, in which case the appointment will terminate at the end of the offer period and the Non-Executive Director will be entitled to a payment of a quarter of the annual fee: If the Non-Executive Director resigns voluntarily but solely because of having a reasonable objection to, or reasonable disagreement with, a Board decision on a material matter of policy or a material commercial matter affecting the Company or the Group.
In this case, the Non-Executive Director will be entitled to a severance payment equivalent to a quarter of the annual fee or, if less, the total amount of fees that would have been paid had the Non-Executive Director continued in office until the date of expiry of the Non-Executive Directors appointment, whether of the initial appointment or any extension thereof.
E. Illustration of application of remuneration policy The following chart shows an illustration of the application of the proposed Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors in the first year to which the policy would apply.
Joint CEOs Morgan Jones Ian Watson Finance Director Richard Lowes 1,200 1,200 Base salary and benets Variable annual pay 1,004k Variable long-term pay 1,000 1,000 864k 784k 800 800 27% 27% 18% 631k 564k 600 600 18% 27% 18% 399k 400 400 100% 64% 46% 100% 64% 46% 200 200 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum remuneration performance remuneration remuneration performance remuneration The following assumptions have been made in preparing the charts: Base salary is based on the 2017 annual salary with pension, performance related bonus and awards under the PSP based on the percentages laid out in the Future Policy Table.
No account has been taken of the Founder LTIP because no such awards will vest in 2017.
Benefits have been assumed at 2016 levels.
Target performance is based on the Group achieving the middle of the range of performance measures relevant to annual and long-term bonus.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Margaret Young Chair of the Remuneration Committee 52 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Thousands Thousands
