76 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report Dear shareholder Remuneration Working Group in relation to increased exibility in approaches to I am pleased to present intus 2016 remuneration, a conclusion we supported.
Directors remuneration report to The timing of our own review has meant that you, which has been prepared by we did not explore the potential significant the Remuneration Committee and structural changes which were considered approved by the Board.
in these findings, but the Committee will continue to monitor developments and Results and context of remuneration may reassess our position in the future.
Our core business performed well during 2016, and our strategy of creating and Alignment with long-term success managing the best shopping centres The Committee believes that our Members and meetings in 2016 delivered strong like-for-like net rental remuneration philosophy and incentive income growth, improved operating policy is aligned with the long-term success Remuneration 1 Committee metrics and growth in underlying of the Company.
Our long-term incentive 4 meetings earnings per share in the year.
Our brand plan has time horizons extending to five AB awareness continues to grow and our years, and 50 per cent of our annual bonus Louise Patten Chairman 44 continued innovation and evolution is deferred into shares.
Performance pay is Independent Non-Executive ensure that retailers and customers linked to: Director understand the intu difference.
We have Neil Sachdev stepped down 22 made significant progress on our strategic out-performance of total shareholder on 4 May 2016 Independent priorities in 2016, including successful return TSR against our peers Non-Executive Director delivery of major centre development delivering absolute total return for Adle Anderson Independent 44 projects like intu Metrocentre and an our shareholders Non-Executive Director active year of asset recycling with the annual EPS performance Andrew Huntley Independent 43 disposal of intu Bromley, allowing us to achievement of our strategic initiatives Non-Executive Director acquire the remaining 50 per cent of intu that will build value for the longer term A Maximum number of meetings eligible to Merry Hill.
We also maintained a similar attend.
debt to assets ratio, continued focus In addition, from 2017, the Chief Financial B Number of meetings actually attended.
on the Spanish market and strong Officer will be required to build up a 1 The Committee normally invites the Chairman, performance against customer and shareholding in intu shares worth 200 per the Chief Executive, the Company Secretary employee satisfaction metrics.
cent of salary, in line with the requirement and the HR Director to attend the scheduled meetings.
The Chairman and the HR Director that already applies to the Chief Executive.
attended all four of the scheduled meetings in Remuneration policy 2016.
The Chief Executive attended three of the Our Directors remuneration policy was As part of this years remuneration review, four meetings.
No individual is present when his or her remuneration is being determined.
approved by shareholders at the 2014 consideration was given to whether to annual general meeting, and we were introduce a further holding period to pleased to receive 99.77 per cent support the Performance Share Plan PSP.
This year, in line Committee believes that the current with the regulatory requirements, we are performance period of three, four and five resubmitting our Directors remuneration years, combined with clawback provisions of Remuneration governance policy for shareholder approval.
one year following vesting, already provides alignedfeatures strong alignment between the Executive Malus provisions for both the annual We have made no significant changes Directors and shareholders, although this bonus and the PSP to our policy other than to formally position will be kept under review.
Clawback provisions for both the incorporate clawback introduced in annual bonus and the PSP 2016 into the policy.
The revised policy Key areas of focus and decisions is presented at the back of this report.
in 2016 and for 2017 Time horizon extending to five years In addition to reviewing the Directors for a portion of the PSP Earlier in the year we undertook a review remuneration policy, the Committee also Full retrospective disclosure of annual of our remuneration arrangements and made a number of decisions regarding bonus financial targets including concluded that the existing framework the application of our policies in 2016 minimum and maximum target range continued to support our strategy.
Key decisions included: Shareholding requirement of 200 per a Committee we continue to monitor cent of salary developments in the remuneration the Chief Executives and Chief Financial governance environment.
We noted the Officers salaries will be increased by recommendations of the Executive 3.2 per cent to 605,800 and 478,150, Governance Directors remuneration report 77 respectively.
This increase is below PSP awards of 250 per cent of salary the average increase for other staff were made to each of the Executive Compliance statement in the business Directors.
These will only vest subject This is the Directors remuneration report fees for our new Chairman will be to the achievement of stretching TSR of the Company which has been produced 275,000 per annum and absolute total return performance pursuant to, and in accordance with, the the annual bonus awarded to the Chief conditions, over three, four and five years Listing Rules, section 420 of the Companies Executive and Chief Financial Officer the shareholding requirement for the Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and for the year ended 31 December 2016 Chief Financial Officer has been Medium-sized Companies and Groups was 114.4 per cent and 115.6 per increased to 200 per cent of salary, Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 cent of salary representing 95.3 per bringing it in line with the requirement as amended 2013.
The Company also cent and 96.3 per cent of maximum that already applies to the complies with the requirements of the UK opportunity respectively, based on Chief Executive Corporate Governance Code the Code.
EPS performance in the year and the This report contains both auditable and achievement of key strategic objectives Shareholder annual general meeting non-auditable information.
The information the second tranche of the 2013 PSP Both the Directors remuneration policy subject to audit is set out in the Directors award and first tranche of 2014 PSP report and the annual remuneration remuneration report, in sections marked award are due to vest at 24.2 and 48.6 report will be put to shareholder vote at with.
per cent, respectively, reecting intus our 2017 AGM and we look forward to strong absolute total return NAV per receiving your views and support.
share growth plus dividends over a three and four year period Louise Patten no changes have been made to the Chairman of the performance measures for the annual Remuneration Committee bonus and performance share plan 23 February 2017 Overview of Executive Director remuneration An overview of the key remuneration elements in place for Executive Directors is set out below.
The only change to the operation of our policy is an increase in the shareholding requirement for the Chief Financial Officer.
Key elements Timing of payout Summary of policy Details of policy for 2017 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Salaries are reviewed annually and take Salaries for 2017 are: Base salary into account factors such as: market pay levels David Fischel, Chief Executive: 605,800 for the role, increases for the rest of the Group Matthew Roberts, Chief Financial Officer: 478,150 and individual and Company performance This is below increases to staff across the business The Company operates an approved dened contribution pension arrangement, where the contribution Pension is 24 per cent of basic salary.
The Chief Executive receives an additional six per cent in recognition of the and benets benefit foregone on the closure of the dened benefit scheme Benets include a car allowance up to 18,000, private medical insurance, life assurance and long-term sickness insurance Maximum opportunity of 120 per cent of salary For 2017 performance is based two-thirds on Annual bonus A proportion earned is deferred into intu shares, EPS and one-third on strategic and operational which vest over two and three years subject to objectives.
This is the same framework which continued employment applied for 2016 At least two-thirds of this award is based on 50 per cent of the award will be deferred into shares Group financial measures or quantitative key performance measures The normal maximum grant size is 250 per Awards of 250 per cent of salary Long-term cent of salary per annum: however this may For 2017, the awards will be based: incentives be increased to 375 per cent in exceptional 50 per cent on TSR relative to the top five UK circumstances.
The intention is that this listed REITs exibility would only be contemplated in 50 per cent on absolute total return recruitment circumstances NAV per share growth plus dividends Targets unchanged from 2016 Executive Directors must build up a holding with a value equivalent to 200 per cent of salary Shareholding requirement 78 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report This report sets out how the Directors remuneration policy of the Company has been applied in the year and how the Committee intends to apply the policy going forward.
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, an advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the 2017 annual general meeting of the Company.
Subsections marked with have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
Key responsibilities The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and then agree with the Board the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairman of the Company and such other members of the executive management as it is tasked to consider.
Key principles of remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy aims to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre executives by rewarding them appropriately with competitive compensation and benefit packages.
The policy seeks to align the interests of Executive Directors with the performance of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Our incentive arrangements are designed to reward performance on our key performance indicators.
Our aim is to focus management on delivering sustainable long-term performance and support the retention of critical talent.
Total remuneration in 2016 The table below sets out the total remuneration received by each Director for the year to 31 December 2016.
A management fee of 210,000 was paid to Peel Management Limited for the provision by Peel of management and advisory services, as further described on page 157.
The gures have been calculated as follows: Base salary: amount earned for the year.
Benets: the taxable value of annual benets received in the year.
The main benets are life assurance, long-term sickness insurance, private healthcare and company car cash allowance.
The value of the company car cash allowance is 18,000.
Pension: the value of the Companys contribution during the year 30 per cent salary supplement in lieu of contributions for the Chief Executive, 24 per cent SIPP contribution, part taken as a salary supplement in lieu of SIPP contributions, for the Chief Financial Officer.
Annual bonus cash and deferred : the value at grant of the annual incentive payable for performance over 2016 and 2015 respectively.
PSP: awards shown under 2016 comprise awards made in 2013 and 2014, both of which have one third subject to three-, fourand five-year performance periods.
The amount shown is the amount due to vest in respect of the first tranche of the 2014 award, with a three-year performance period to 31 December 2016, and the second tranche of the 2013 award, with a four-year performance period to 31 December 2016.
Amounts are calculated using a three month average share price of 2.76.
Further information regarding the vesting can be found on page 81.
PSP awards shown under 2015 comprise the first tranche of awards made in 2013.
In line with the regulatory requirements, these amounts have been restated from the gures disclosed last year to reect the share price on date of vesting in May 2016.
Governance Directors remuneration report 79 Performance out-turns and incentives Annual bonus The maximum award for both the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in 2016 was 120 per cent of salary, of which 50 per cent is deferred for two and three years.
This will remain unchanged for 2017.
Annual bonus payments are based on pre-determined performance measures.
Given the commercial sensitivity, the Committee provides restrospective disclosure of targets.
Two-thirds is based on adjusted EPS performance in the year, split evenly between performance versus budget and prior year gures.
The overall structure ensures that the maximum EPS related bonus is only achievable if management outperform against both the Boards expectations for the year and if there is an increase in EPS on the prior year.
The remaining third is based on achievement of strategic and operational objectives against a scorecard of measures.
The Remuneration Committee considers the objectives carefully each year to align with intus strategic objectives, and the objectives include quantitatively assessed financial and operational measures and milestones.
Each objective relates directly to the strategic plan.
Under the scorecard approach, the weightings of each objective vary between Executive Directors to reect their roles and responsibilities.
For 2017, the scorecard will include objectives in the following key areas: optimising assets key capital expenditure projects building the intu brand and delivering customer experience maximising the growth opportunities internationally financial exibility talent development and staff engagement Annual bonus 2016 out-turn Performance against the targets for the 2016 short-term incentive arrangements is given below.
As in previous years, full retrospective disclosure of financial targets is provided.
Target 2016 Out-turn Performance element Weighting Threshold Target Maximum performance % max element Adjusted EPS vs. budget 33% 95% 100% 105% 109.5% 100% Adjusted EPS vs. prior year 33% 100% 102.5% 105% 105.6% 100% David Fischel Matthew Roberts Scorecard of strategic and operational measures 33% See details of scorecard achievements 86% 89% Total 95.3% 96.3% The strategic objectives in the annual bonus are a key part of the remuneration framework for incentivising and rewarding achievements and milestones which are the foundation for value creation in the future.
The Committee follows a rigorous process in the setting and monitoring of scorecard objectives and then exercises judgement in assessing performance in the key areas selected.
This includes determination of objectives by reference to the approved Board strategy, quarterly reviews of quantitative and qualitative data, and an end of year full review with supporting evidence, to ensure a robust assessment of performance against the objectives.
80 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued For 2016, the scorecard weightings and out-turns were as follows: Scorecard Weighting Summary achievement against objectives Including specic objectives David Matthew under each area of focus Fischel Roberts Optimising performance 25% 20% Substantial delivery of centre specic objectives resulting in considerable progress of existing assets against proposed plans for major assets including intu Lakeside, intu Merry Hill and intu Metrocentre Above target and like-for-like growth in net rental income for 2016 UPPER QUARTILE ACHIEVEMENT Progress on key capital 20% 20% Successful completion of the major projects, with new projects opening in intu expenditure projects Metrocentre, intu Bromley and Greys Quarter at intu Eldon Square Good progress with existing developments, with projects proceeding to programme UPPER QUARTILE ACHIEVEMENT Branding and customer 20% 15% Strong performance against net promotor score targets across all centres, including relationships overall improvement on previous year by 2 points to 71 2015: 69 Continued strengthening of our digital business, with increase in digital subscribers Successful delivery of intu Experiences, with above target net income Out-performance against both previous year and target Spontaneous Awareness metric MAXIMUM ACHIEVEMENT Financial exibility 10% 20% Maintenance of financial exibility throughout 2016, exceeding the Boards minimum headroom threshold Successful delivery of nancing for acquisitions Finalised and concluded the exit of intus Equity One investment UPPER QUARTILE ACHIEVEMENT International growth 15% 15% Strong performance at both intu Asturias and Puerto Venecia opportunity Planning approval granted for intu Costa del Sol with work anticipated to start in 2017 Advancement of planning process in respect of a further three Spanish sites UPPER QUARTILE ACHIEVEMENT Talent development and 10% 10% Delivery against second tier talent management initiative, with the initial cohort staff engagement completing the formal programme during the year Continued operation of our apprenticeship scheme, recruitment of 14 apprentices in 2016 Successful integration of new management structure following the departure of the Chief Operating Officer Maintenance of strong employee engagement score ON-TARGET ACHIEVEMENT The resulting total short-term incentive payouts for David Fischel and Matthew Roberts in respect of 2016 were 114.4 per cent and 115.6 per cent of salary 95.3 per cent and 96.3 per cent of maximum opportunity, respectively.
Deferral into shares 50 per cent of the 2016 short-term incentive for both David Fischel and Matthew Roberts was deferred into shares of the Company.
Executive Directors must remain in employment with the Company for a period of two years half of award and three years half of award after the date of award before such shares are released.
Governance Directors remuneration report 81 Long-term incentives Awards with performance periods ending in the year Performance Share Plan PSP The long term incentive plan awards shown in the single gure relate to awards due to vest in May 2017.
This includes: the first tranche of the 2014 PSP awards.
The second and third tranches of this award are due to vest in May 2018 and May 2019 respectively the second tranche of the 2013 PSP awards.
The final tranche of this award is due to vest in May 2018 The performance condition for both awards were as follows: half of awards vest by reference to TSR relative to the top-five UK-listed REITs with 25 per cent minimum vesting for TSR in line with the third-ranked company: vesting of 60 per cent for TSR in line with the second-ranked company: full vesting for TSR in line with the top-ranked company: and straight-line vesting between points, proportionate to TSR achieved.
This portion is also subject to a committee-operated discretionary assessment of underlying financial performance half of the awards vest by reference to absolute total return NAV per share growth plus dividends with 25 per cent minimum vesting for 6 per cent per annum: full vesting for 10 per cent per annum: straight-line vesting in between.
Awards will lapse for growth of less than 6 per cent per annum 2014 PSP award first tranche Over the three-year period to 31 December 2016: intus TSR was ranked fifth against the comparator group resulting in 0 per cent vesting for this element of the tranche absolute total return was 9.85 per cent per annum resulting in 97.2 per cent vesting for this element of the tranche Based on the above performance the Remuneration Committee has determined that 48.6 per cent of the first tranche of the 2014 PSP awards will vest in May 2017.
2013 PSP award second tranche Over the four-year period to 31 December 2016: intus TSR was ranked sixth against the comparator group resulting in 0 per cent vesting for this element of the tranche absolute total return was 7.25 per cent per annum resulting in 48.5 per cent vesting for this element of the tranche Based on the above performance the Remuneration Committee has determined that 24.2 per cent of the second tranche of the 2013 PSP awards will vest in May 2017.
Awards granted during the year This table summarises awards granted during the year in March 2016: Face value of 2016 award Performance period end % vesting Individual Type of interest % of salary at threshold 3 years 4 years 5 years 31 December 31 December 31 December David Fischel 1,412,000 250% 25% 2018 2019 2020 PSP nil cost options 31 December 31 December 31 December Matthew Roberts 1,114,000 250% 25% 2018 2019 2020 David Fischel 323,000 50% of 2015 bonus Deferred bonus award Matthew Roberts 255,000 50% of 2015 bonus Face value calculated using an average share price at date of grant of 2.98 for the PSP and 3.00 for the Deferred bonus award.
V esting of awards is based 50 per cent on relative TSR and 50 per cent on Absolute Total Return NAV growth per share plus dividends performance, with targets equivalent to the 2017 award.
82 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Awards for 2017 Awards for 2017 will be 250 per cent of salary.
Awards under the plan vest one-third after each of three, four and five years.
A summary of the applicable targets are as follows: Absolute Total Return NAV growth per Total Shareholder Return relative to top-five UK-listed REITs share plus dividends 50% of award 50% of award Minimum vesting 25% of element vesting 6% per annum TSR in line with the third-ranked company Full vesting 100% of element vesting 10% per annum TSR in line with the top-ranked company Straight line vesting between points Straight line vesting between points, proportionate to TSR achieved, with 60% vesting for TSR in line with the secondranked company.
Subject to a Committee-operated discretionary assessment of underlying financial performance Malus and clawback Shares awarded under the deferred bonus plan and the performance share plan are subject to malus provisions.
The Committee may apply malus at its discretion in circumstances including but not limited to : a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results a material failure of risk management by the Company, any Group company or business unit a material breach of any applicable health and safety or environmental regulations by the Company, any Group company or business unit serious reputational damage to the Company, any Group company or business unit serious misconduct of the individual The annual bonus and the PSP are also subject to clawback provisions.
The Committee may at its discretion seek to apply clawback in circumstances of: a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results where the individual is responsible or accountable and where Executive Directors would always be deemed to have management responsibility serious misconduct of the individual Clawback provisions may be applied up to two years following the determination of the annual incentive and up to one further year following vesting for awards under the performance share plan.
Taking into account the three, four and five year vesting timescales, this means that PSP awards may be reclaimed for up to four, five and six years, respectively, from the date of award.
Other share scheme information The Company operates an employee share ownership plan ESOP which has in the past used funds provided to purchase shares required under the annual bonus scheme.
The Company operates a share incentive plan SIP for all eligible employees, including Executive Directors, who may receive up to 3,600 worth of shares as part of their annual bonus arrangements.
As part of the SIP arrangements, the Company offers eligible employees the opportunity to participate in a partnership share scheme, the terms of which are governed by HM Revenue & Customs regulations.
Season ticket loan All employees of the Group are entitled to an interest-free travel season ticket loan which is repaid over the year via deductions from salary.
Neither David Fischel nor Matthew Roberts received a season ticket or other loan from the Group during 2016.
Chief Executive pay increase in relation to all employees The table below sets out details of the percentage change in salary, benets and annual bonus for the Chief Executive and the average of all of intus staff.
Percentage change in remuneration from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2016 Percentage change Percentage change Percentage change in base salary in benets in annual bonus Chief Executive 3.9% 5.0 % 3.9% All employees 6.0% 8.1% 9.3% Governance Directors remuneration report 83 Shareholding and share interests Executive Directors must build up over time a holding of intu shares with a value equivalent to 200 per cent of salary.
The shareholding requirement for Matthew Roberts has increased from 150 per cent to 200 per cent from 2017.
The Remuneration Committee reviews shareholdings against the requirement on an annual basis to ensure they are met within an appropriate timeframe.
The graph below illustrates the shareholdings of the Executive Directors as a percentage of salary.
Note that only actual holdings count towards the shareholding requirements.
Shares subject to deferral and or performance conditions have also been shown for reference.
Shareholding of intu ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016 % of salary David Fischel Matthew Roberts 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,250 2,500 % of salary Actual shareholding Deferred shares Unexercised share options vested Shares subject to performance conditions Shareholding requirement Value of shareholding calculated based on 12 month average share price to 31 December 2016.
As shown above David Fischel has exceeded his shareholding requirements.
Matthew Roberts shareholding requirement has been increased to 200 per cent from the beginning of 2017 and he will be expected to build his shareholding to this level over time.
The table below sets out the Directors interests in shares as at 31 December 2016 Unvested awards Vested awards Number of shares owned Conditional shares not subject including connected persons to performance conditions PSP Held in SIP Held in SIP subject to Unexercised Unexercised Options Held in trust for Deferred trust for performance unapproved approved exercised in 1 2 own name 5 years shares 5 years conditions options options the year Executive David Fischel 1,048,884 13,406 196,077 10,386 1,752,143 1,382,972 12,906 Matthew Roberts 259,487 804 154,548 8,839 1,364,444 481,387 11,203 1.
2013 PSP awards held as xed-value zero-cost options and jointly owned shares.
Held as jointly owned shares.
The outstanding options represent the unexercised element of the jointly owned shares portion of the 2009 unapproved options.
Outstanding share awards were adjusted as a result of the 25 April 2014 rights issue.
No changes in the interests of Directors have occurred between 31 December 2016 and 23 February 2017.
84 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Vested 2009 ESOS awards Awards of market value share options, with an exercise price of 232.41 pence.
These awards became exercisable on 28 February 2013 and may be exercised until 28 May 2019.
2010 ESOS awards Awards of market value share options, with an exercise price of 267.75 pence.
These awards became exercisable on 26 May 2013 and may be exercised until 26 May 2020.
Unvested 2014 PSP award Awards of performance shares, granted on 12 May 2014.
Vesting is based on TSR relative to the top five second and third UK-listed REITs and Absolute Total Return performance ranging from 6 per cent p. a. to 10 per cent p. a., in tranches three equal tranches over three, four and five years.
Any awards that vest may be exercised until 12 May 2024.
2015 PSP award Awards of performance shares, granted on 11 March 2015.
Vesting is based on TSR relative to the top five UK-listed REITs and Absolute Total Return performance ranging from 6 per cent p. a. to 10 per cent p. a., in three equal tranches over three, four and five years.
Any awards that vest may be exercised until 11 March 2025.
2016 PSP award Awards of performance shares, granted on 7 March 2016.
Any awards that vest may be exercised until 7 March 2026.
Eight-year TSR chart The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for intu properties plc over the eight-year period ended 31 December 2016, compared with our closest comparator group for this purpose, the FTSE 350 Real Estate.
TSR is dened as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Since 2009, a key driver for growth in value within the UK real estate market has been exposure to central London properties.
As a result of the demerger of Capital & Counties from Liberty International now intu properties plc in 2010, intus portfolio does not include properties in central London and intu has therefore not benefited from the uplift experienced by those property companies with exposure to London.
However, given the cyclical nature of the property sector, we would not expect this trend to endure over the long-term cycle.
Governance Directors remuneration report 85 For additional context, the following graph shows the Absolute Total Return NAV growth plus dividends.
Absolute Total Return cumulative % 140 130 120 110 100 90 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Chief Executive remuneration history The table below sets out historical details of Chief Executive pay.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CEO single gure of total remuneration 1,044k 1,350k 1,275k 1,810k 1,081k 1,154k 1,621k 1,795k Annual bonus payout % maximum 50% 100% 83% 70% 55% 65% 95.3% 95.3% Long-term incentive plan vesting in year % maximum 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% 0% 37.6% 36.4% Shareholder context The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2015 Annual remuneration report including Committee Chairmans statement at the 2016 AGM and the binding vote on the 2013 Directors remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes, and to maintain an ongoing dialogue on executive remuneration matters.
For Against Abstentions 2015 Annual remuneration report including Committee Chairmans statement 98.21% 1.79% 0.8m 2013 Directors remuneration policy 99.77% 0.23% 10.6m Additional disclosures Other directorships Executive Directors are not generally encouraged to hold external directorships unless the Chairman determines that such appointment is in the Groups interest and does not cause any conict of interest.
Where such appointments are approved and held, it is a matter for the Chairman to agree whether fees paid in respect of the appointment are retained by the individual or paid to the Company.
During 2016, David Fischel held three external directorships.
His principal external appointments were with Equity One, Inc. and Prozone Intu Properties Limited.
Equity One, Inc. is a US real estate investment trust with which intu operated a US venture controlled by Equity One until 19 January 2016 and at this point David Fischel stepped down as a Non-Executive Director.
Prozone Intu Properties Limited is an Indian shopping centre owner and developer in which intu has a 33 per cent interest.
David Fischel also holds an external appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Marlowe Investments Kent Limited, a UK private company which relates to his family affairs, does not require any significant time commitment and does not conict in any way with his role as Chief Executive of intu.
During 2016, David Fischel did not receive a fee in respect of either his appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Prozone Intu Properties Limited or his directorship of Equity One, Inc.
Restricted stock in Equity One, Inc. awarded to David Fischel vested during the year with a value on vesting of $137,340.
He also received and retained a fee of 5,000 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Marlowe Investments Kent Limited.
With effect from 1 March 2017 Matthew Roberts will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Marstons PLC and will receive a fee of 50,000, which he will retain with the Boards consent.
86 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Payments to former Directors A life presidency fee of 150,000 per annum 2015: 150,000 was paid to Sir Donald Gordon, the Groups Life President and former Chairman who founded the Company in 1980.
The life presidency fee was agreed by the Board at the time of his retirement in June 2005 in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the Group.
The payment is payable for the remainder of Sir Donalds life and is secured by deed.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office made to Directors in the year.
Alternate Directors Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine serve as Alternate Directors to John Whittaker and Richard Gordon respectively.
Neither Steven Underwood nor Raymond Fine received any fees in 2016 in respect of their appointment as Alternate Directors.
Raymond Fine received a fee of 166,496 in respect of consultancy services provided to the Company in connection with South African tax and shareholder issues particularly in respect of South African dividends tax, liaison with the Gordon Family and other related matters.
Service contracts Executive Directors and the Chairman have rolling service contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice on either side.
All Non-Executive Directors have been appointed under letters of appointment on xed terms of two or three years, subject to renewal thereafter.
Richard Gordon is deemed to have served for more than nine years and is now subject to a one-year term.
All are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Notice period David Fischel 12 months Matthew Roberts 12 months Patrick Burgess 12 months Contract term expires Adle Anderson 2019 AGM Richard Gordon 2017 AGM Andrew Huntley 2017 AGM Rakhi Goss-Custard 2019 AGM Louise Patten 2017 AGM John Strachan 2019 AGM Andrew Strang 2018 AGM John Whittaker 2017 AGM Distribution statement The table below shows the percentage change in underlying earnings, dividends, and total employee compensation spend from the financial year ended 31 December 2015 to the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The average number of staff employed by the Group during the financial year to 31 December 2016 was 2,550 2015: 2,446.
Governance Directors remuneration report 87 Chairman and Non-Executive overseeing any significant changes Deloitte is a founding member of the Director fees for 2017 to remuneration policy for the wider Remuneration Consultants Group, and The fees for the new Chairman will be employee population adheres to its code of conduct.
was appointed directly by the Committee The full duties and responsibilities are and the Committee is satisfied that The basic Non-Executive Director fee set out in the terms of reference of the the advice received was objective is 59,000 per annum.
The Senior Committee which are available on the and independent.
Independent Director receives an Companys website.
additional fee of 10,000 per annum.
The Committee also makes use of various Committee chairmen receive 15,000 The Remuneration Committee currently published surveys to help determine per annum, and Committee members comprises three independent Nonappropriate remuneration levels.
Fees were last Executive Directors.
Throughout the year increased in April 2015 and will remain the Committee consisted of Neil Sachdev unchanged in 2017. until 4 May 2016, Louise Patten, Adle Anderson and Andrew Huntley.
John Whittaker does not receive a fee in respect of his position as Deputy The Chairman, Chief Executive, Company Chairman and Non-Executive Director.
Secretary, HR Director and on occasion The Board has authorised the payment Chief Financial Officer are invited to of a management fee of 210,000 per attend Committee meetings to contribute annum to Peel Management Limited for to the Committee in its deliberations.
the provision by Peel of a Non-Executive However, no individual is present when his Director and an Alternate Director and or her remuneration is being determined.
other management and advisory services, together with reasonable costs and The Remuneration Committee met a out-of-pocket expenses.
A summary of attendance at each scheduled meeting The management fee was last reviewed is set out on page 76. and increased with effect from April 2015.
It is anticipated that the agreement will Advisers to the Committee be renewed annually thereafter by Deloitte LLP was appointed as the agreement between the parties.
This Committees independent remuneration payment is disclosed in the related party adviser in October 2013, following a transactions note on page 157. competitive tender process.
During the year, Deloitte provided advice on Remuneration Committee remuneration governance developments, membership in 2016 corporate reporting and investor The principal responsibilities of the engagement, market data and other Committee, which take full account of remuneration matters that materially the recommendations contained within assisted the Committee.
the Code, include: Representatives also attended determining the remuneration policy Committee meetings during the year.
for the Companys Executive Directors The fees paid to Deloitte in respect and senior executives of this work in 2016 totalled 63,150. determining individual remuneration During the year Deloitte also provided packages for the Chairman, Executive to the Group tax compliance and advisory Directors and senior executives services, share scheme advice and setting appropriately stretching and financial advisory planning services in achievable targets for the Companys relation to the Spanish business and incentive schemes in order to motivate UK-based properties.
executives to deliver high levels of performance in the interests of our shareholders, customers and employees 88 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy This section sets out the Directors remuneration policy of the Company.
In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act, a binding shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the 2017 annual general meeting of the Company.
The policy will apply from the 2017 AGM subject to shareholder approval.
Changes to the remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee reviewed the existing Directors remuneration policy and concluded that it remained appropriate to support the key objectives of attracting, motivating and retaining high calibre executives and aligned the interests of Executive Directors with the performance of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Against that background, no substantive changes are proposed in the policy, other than to formally incorporate clawback introduced in 2016 into the policy.
Policy table The table below describes the policy in relation to the components of remuneration for Executive Directors and, at the bottom of the table, the policy for the Non-Executive Directors.
Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Directors Base salary Reviewed annually.
Base salary increases may be None.
To provide an appropriately applied, taking into account the Salary levels take account of: competitive level of base pay to factors considered as part of the attract and retain talent.
size and nature of the responsibilities annual review.
There is no maximum of each role increase or opportunity.
market pay levels for the role For new appointments salaries may increases for the rest of the Group be set at a lower level.
In such cases, the executives experience there may be scope for higher than changes to the size and complexity usual salary increases in the first of the Group three years as the individual implications for total remuneration progresses in the role.
overall affordability individual and Company performance The Committee may award an out-of-cycle increase if it considers it appropriate.
Pension The Company operates an approved Company pension contribution or None.
To help provide for an dened contribution pension cash alternative is up to 24 per cent appropriate retirement benefit.
A cash alternative may be offered in The Chief Executive receives an certain circumstances, for example additional 6 per cent of salary in where HMRC statutory limits have recognition of the additional value been reached.
of the benefit foregone on the closure of the dened benefit scheme.
This amount was actuarially determined to be cost-neutral to the Company.
Other benets Benets include a car allowance, private Car allowance of up to 18,000 None.
To provide an appropriately medical insurance, life assurance and per annum.
Other The cost of insurance benets may benets may be provided if the vary from year to year depending on Committee considers it appropriate.
In the event that an Executive Director There is no overall maximum is required by the Group to relocate, benefit value but the Committee benets may include, but are not aims to ensure that the total value limited to, relocation allowance and of benets remains proportionate.
Governance Directors remuneration report 89 Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Directors continued Short-term incentive intu operates a short-term incentive Maximum annual opportunity Executives performance is measured To align annual reward with arrangement with a maximum of 120 per cent of salary.
relative to targets in key financial, annual performance and to individual opportunity.
operational and strategic objectives support retention and in the year.
A proportion of any earned bonus is alignment with shareholders normally deferred in intu shares, vesting The measures selected and their interests through significant over two years and three years, subject weightings vary each year according deferral of bonus into shares.
to the strategic priorities, however at least two thirds will be based on Group The Committee awards dividend financial measures or quantitative equivalents in respect of dividends over reported key performance indicators.
the deferral period which may assume reinvestment on a cumulative basis.
Entry award level for financial measures is normally between 0 and The Committee has discretion to apply 25 per cent of maximum.
malus to unvested deferred bonus awards in certain circumstances and annual bonus payments may be subject to clawback.
Long-term incentives intu operates a PSP, which was approved Normal maximum grant size of Long-term incentive performance To reward good long-term by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
250 per cent of salary per annum.
conditions are reviewed on an annual decisions which help grow basis, and are chosen to be aligned Grants are made to eligible employees In exceptional circumstances the value of intu over a three with the long-term success of at the discretion of the Committee.
opportunity of up to 375 per cent to five-year horizon and the business.
The intention is that support the retention of Awards can be made as performance this exibility would only The intention is that measures will be critical executives.
shares, nil-cost options or jointly owned be contemplated in one or more of TSR, total return NAV equity, and vest one third, one-third, recruitment circumstances.
growth, EPS growth, relative total one third after three, four and five property return or return on capital.
For 2017, awards will be based The Committee awards dividend equivalents in respect of dividends over 50 per cent on relative TSR the vesting period, which may assume 50 per cent on absolute total return reinvestment on a cumulative basis.
NAV growth plus dividends The Committee has discretion to If the Committee considers that the apply malus and clawback to awards level of vesting based on the extent in certain circumstances.
to which the performance conditions have been satisfied is not a fair reection of underlying financial performance, the Committee may adjust the level of vesting upwards or downwards accordingly.
For the current performance measures this applies to the TSR portion only.
Entry vesting is 25 per cent of maximum.
All employee share plans Executive Directors may participate in Participants can contribute up to None.
To align interests of employees HMRC approved share incentive plans the relevant HMRC limit.
on the same basis as all employees.
Legacy share awards Payments can also be made to Executive Directors under the legacy share option plan and equivalent jointly owned equity arrangements, which were the predecessor arrangements to the current PSP and were approved by shareholders in 1999.
Under this plan, market value share option grants were made, with vesting based on EPS growth.
It is not intended that this plan will be used to grant any future awards to the Executive Directors.
90 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Element and link to strategy Operation Performance metrics Non-Executive Directors Fees Independent Non-Executive Directors None.
To remunerate The Chairmans fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
The level of fees takes into account the time commitment, responsibilities, market levels and the skills and experience required.
Non-Executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specic Board responsibilities, including membership and chairmanship of committees.
The Chairman is entitled to receive certain benets in addition to fees.
Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors on a per diem basis to reect increased time commitment in certain limited circumstances.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive any benets however these may be provided in the future if in the view of the board this was considered appropriate.
In addition to the above, in certain circumstances Non-Executive Directors other than those deemed to be independent may receive a fee in relation to consultancy services including Alternate Directors.
Such fees may be provided directly to the Director or, in certain circumstances, paid to a third party company under a consultancy services agreement.
Such agreements may provide for the payment of an annual fee and reimbursement of expenses.
Such an agreement is currently in place with the Peel Group for the provision of Non-Executive Director services including Alternative Director services.
The Company also operates a shareholding requirement.
For these purposes payments includes The Performance Share Plan shall be The Committee may increase the the Committee satisfying awards of operated in accordance with the rules proportion of bonus deferred into shares variable remuneration and, in relation of the plan as approved by shareholders at any time and or extend the deferral or to an award over shares, the terms of in 2013 and amended from time to time performance time horizons, or introduce the payment are agreed at the time in accordance with those rules.
accordance with the rules of the PSP, the performance conditions may be The Committee reserves the right to replaced or varied if an event occurs make any remuneration payments and or Performance measures and targets or circumstances arise which cause payments for loss of office including Annual bonus the Committee to determine that the exercising any discretions available to Annual bonus metrics and targets are performance conditions have ceased it in connection with such payments selected to provide an appropriate to be appropriate, in which case the notwithstanding that they are not in line balance between incentivising Executive Committee can vary or replace the with the policy set out above where the Directors to meet financial objectives performance condition provided that the terms of the payment were agreed for the year and achieve strategic amended performance condition is in its operational objectives.
opinion, fair, reasonable and no more or i before 2014 AGM the date the less difficult than the original conditions Companys first shareholder-approved Annual bonus metrics and targets are when set.
The plan rules provide for directors remuneration policy came chosen in line with the following principles adjustments in certain circumstances.
For into effect : example, awards may be adjusted in the ii before the policy set out above came the targets set for financial event of any variation of the Companys into effect, provided that the terms of measures should be incentivising and share capital, any consolidation of profits the payment were consistent with the appropriately stretching or reserves or special dividend.
shareholder-approved Directors strategic and operational objectives remuneration policy in force at the include quantitatively assessed Malus and clawback apply where stated time they were agreed: or financial and operational measures, in the above table.
Other elements of iii at a time when the relevant individual and achievement against milestones, remuneration are not subject to recovery was not a Director of the Company with judgement in assessing both provisions.
Clawback provisions apply only and, in the opinion of the Committee, quantitative and qualitative data for incentives made in respect of 2016 the payment was not in consideration there should be exibility to change the for the individual becoming a Director and thereafter.
measures and weightings year-on-year of the Company.
in line with the needs of the business Governance Directors remuneration report 91 PSP Pay for performance: scenario analysis Performance conditions and targets The charts below show the potential split between the different elements of the are determined by the Committee to Executive Directors remuneration under three different performance scenarios: reect the Groups strategy and having Minimum, Target and Stretch.
regard to market practice within the Component Minimum Target Stretch Companys business sector.
Measuring Base salary Annual base salary performance one third over years three, Fixed Pension 30 per cent of salary for Chief Executive, 24 per cent four and five provides a balance between remuneration of salary for Chief Financial Officer the typical executive time horizon and Benets Taxable value of annual benets the longer time horizon of shopping provided in 2016 centre investments.
Annual bonus 0 per cent of salary 60 per cent 120 per cent cash and of salary target of salary maximum For 2017 awards the measures were deferred opportunity opportunity selected taking into account that shares Performance 0 per cent vesting 25 per cent vesting 100 per cent vesting absolute total return NAV growth share plan plus dividends is considered by the Company to be the best internal Excludes share price growth and dividends.
indicator of value creation TSR is a key objective of most of Chief Executive our shareholders Stretch Measures and targets Target The measurement of performance against performance targets is at the Minimum Committees discretion, which may 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 include appropriate adjustments to financial or non-financial measures and or Chief Financial officer consideration of overall performance in Stretch the round.
Targets may be adjusted by the Committee to take into account Target significant capital transactions or similar events during the year.
Minimum Remuneration arrangements 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 throughout the Group Fixed remuneration Differences in the policies for Executive Annual bonus Performance share plan Directors and other employees in the Group generally reect differences in market practice taking into account role Approach to recruitment so far as practical the Committee and seniority.
The remuneration policies remuneration will look to align the remuneration for Executive Directors and the senior In the event that the Group appointed a package for any new appointment executive team are consistent in terms of new Executive Director, remuneration with the remuneration policy set out structure and the performance measures would be determined in line with the in the table above used.
An annual bonus plan operates following principles salaries may be higher or lower than below the senior team for head office, the previous incumbent but will be asset management staff and intu centre the Committee will take into account set taking into account the review staff management.
The bonus is based on all relevant factors, including the principles set out in the policy table.
As calibre and experience of the individual Where appropriate the salaries may with the senior team, a portion of bonus is and the market from which they are be set at an initially lower level with generally deferred into intu shares recruited, whilst being mindful of the the intention of increasing salary at a including SIP shares.
Below the senior best interests of the Group and its higher than usual rate as the executive team, employees may be awarded shareholders and seeking not to pay gains experience in the role.
For interim long-term incentives in the form of more than is necessary positions a cash supplement may be options granted under the Companys paid rather than salary for example share option schemes.
a Non-Executive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis 92 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Directors remuneration report continued Details of Directors service contracts Non-Executive Directors receive no to facilitate recruitment the Executive Directors benets from their office other than fees Committee may need to buy out Executive Directors have rolling service and reimbursement of expenses incurred remuneration arrangements forfeited contracts which are terminable on no more in performance of their duties, including on joining the Company.
Any buy-out than 12-months notice on either side.
any tax due on the expenses.
They are would take into account the terms Service contracts for Executive Directors not eligible to participate in Group of the arrangements forfeited, in make no provision for termination pension arrangements.
particular any performance conditions payments, other than for payment of and the time over which they would salary and benets in lieu of notice.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, vest.
The overriding principle would and exceptionally on other occasions, be that the value of any replacement The Executive Directors service contracts Non-Executive Directors would be entitled buy-out awards should be no more may contain provisions relating to salary, to an additional payment to reect any than the commercial value of awards car allowance, pension arrangements, additional time spent on Company affairs, which have been forfeited.
The form of salary continuance in the event of over and above that normally expected in any award would be determined at the extended absence due to illness, holiday the performance of ordinary duties as a time and the Committee may make and sick pay, life insurance, personal Non-Executive Director.
The payment will buy-out awards under LR 9.4.
2 of the accident, medical insurance, dependants be calculated by reference to the amount Listing Rules for buy-out awards only pensions, and the reimbursement of of additional time spent at a rate per diem.
PSP opportunity will be no more reasonable out-of-pocket expenses than the plan rules maximum set out incurred by the Executive Directors Directors service contracts are kept in the policy table.
The exceptional while on Company business.
available for inspection at the Companys maximum may be used for the registered office.
purpose of recruitment Chairman the maximum variable pay The terms of the Chairmans appointment Loss of ofce payment policy opportunity on recruitment excluding broadly reect the terms of the threeIn the event that the employment of an buy-outs is in line with the policy year appointments of the Non-Executive Executive Director is terminated, any table above, comprising a maximum Directors.
However, the Chairmans compensation payable will be determined annual bonus of 120 per cent of salary appointment is subject to a 12-month by reference to the terms of the service and a maximum initial grant of LTIP notice period.
The Chairman may be contract between the Company and the not exceeding 375 per cent of salary.
entitled to the following benets: office employee, as well as the rules of any The Committee retains the exibility support for Company business, a car incentive plans.
The Committee may to determine that for the first year and driver for Company business, private structure any compensation payments of appointment any annual incentive medical insurance and personal accident in such a way as it deems appropriate award will be subject to such terms and travel insurance.
The Chairman may taking into account the circumstances as it may determine also receive independent professional of departure.
In the event of the Company advice of a value of up to 2,500 when terminating an Executive Directors Where an executive is appointed from such expenditures are authorised by the contract, the level of compensation would within the Company, the normal policy ChiefExecutive.
be subject to mitigation and phasing of would be to honour any legacy payments if considered appropriate.
arrangements in line with the original Non-Executive Directors terms and conditions.
All Non-Executive Directors have been The Committee reserves the right to make appointed on xed terms of two or three any other payments in connection with a Where an executive is appointed years, subject to renewal thereafter.
directors cessation of office or employment following corporate activity Richard Gordon is deemed to have served where the payments are made in good reorganisation e. g. merger with another for more than nine years and is now faith in discharge of an existing legal company legacy terms and conditions subject to a one-year term.
All are subject obligation or by way of damages for would also be honoured.
to annual re-election by shareholders.
breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim Where the recruitment requires The Non-Executive Directors have arising in connection with the cessation relocation of the individual, the lettersof appointment which include of a directors office or employment.
Any Committee may provide additional provisions for early termination in such payments may include amounts in costs and benets.
respect of accrued leave, paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the directors legal or professional advice fees in connection with his or her cessation of office or employment.
Governance Directors remuneration report 93 Award under LR 9.4.
2 Prior to the annual pay review, the Payment in lieu of notice Were a buyout award to be made under Committee receives a detailed report The Company may at its discretion make LR 9.4.
2 or otherwise then the leaver from the HR Director setting out changes termination payments in lieu of notice provisions may be determined at the time to broader employee pay.
This forms part based on base salary and benets only.
of the basis for determining Executive Director remuneration.
The Company Bonus Other circumstances does not consult with employees on There is no automatic entitlement Under the PSP on a change-of-control or Executive Director remuneration, but to annual bonus.
The Committee winding up of the Company, PSP awards does consult with employees as part of an retains discretion to award bonuses may vest in accordance with the rules ofthe annual employee survey, which includes for leavers taking into account the plan.
Vesting would be subject to pro-rating questions regarding the Companys circumstances of departure.
Any bonus for time and performance, unless the approach to reward and recognition.
would normally be subject to Committee determines otherwise.
Consideration of shareholder views Bonuses may be paid in respect of the When determining remuneration, the Deferred bonus year in which the change of control or Committee takes into account the Deferred bonus awards will lapse if the winding up of the Company occurs, if the guidelines of investor bodies and executive ceases to be employed before Committee considers this appropriate.
The current the normal vesting date except in good The Committee may determine the level remuneration policy was developed leaver circumstances, which include of bonus taking into account any factors following extensive consultation with retirement, redundancy, a transfer of it considers appropriate.
major shareholders during 2013 and their the business or company by which the views were taken into account during its individual is employed, ill-health, death Deferred bonus awards, which have formation.
The Committee seeks to have or any other reason at the discretion of been earned in respect of previous an ongoing dialogue with shareholders the Committee.
performance periods, will normally vest in on executive remuneration matters.
full on a change of control or winding up.
Performance share plan During the three year period of the last In the event an executive is a good leaver Legacy share option plan policy the Committee engaged with any outstanding PSP awards will be All awards granted under the legacy share proxy agencies from time to time on pro-rated for time and will vest based option plan were made prior to 27 June the operation of the policy and were on performance to the end of the 2012.
Vesting would be in accordance pleased with the level of support performance period unless the with the plan rules.
On voluntary obtained from shareholders for the Committee determines an alternative resignation, awards granted less than annual Directors remuneration reports level of vesting in its discretion.
Good three years before cessation lapse and over this period.
The Committee is leaver circumstances are reasons of injury, other subsisting awards are exercisable provided with regular updates on good disability, ill-health, redundancy, within 6 months of cessation subject to practice and shareholder views on retirement, the sale of the individuals any performance conditions.
In other executive remuneration matters.
employing company or businesses out of leaving circumstances subsisting options the Group or for any other reason at the may be exercised within six months of Minor changes discretion of the Committee.
For JSOP cessation subject to any performance The Committee may make minor awards under the PSP time and pro-rating conditions or 12 months in the case of amendments to the policy set out above applies below the threshold only.
However, in the above cases the for regulatory, exchange control, tax, Committee may adjust the number of Committee has discretion to decide administrative purposes or to take shares vesting below the threshold in alternative vesting and may impose other account of a change in legislation order to apply an appropriate overall conditions.
Both unvested and vested withoutobtaining shareholder approval pro-rating for the award.
awards will lapse if the Director leaves for that amendment.
for reasons involving misconduct, In the event of death, early vesting is impropriety and inefficiency as On behalf of the Board permitted, based either on the determined by the Committee.
Committees assessment of performance Louise Patten against the performance condition to Consideration of conditions Chairman of the date of death, or 50 per cent vesting.
The elsewhere in the Group Remuneration Committee award would also be subject to time In making remuneration decisions, the 23 February 2017 pro-rating.
However, the Committee has Committee also considers the pay and discretion to adjust the level of vesting employment conditions elsewhere in both upwards and downwards.
