JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 66 Governance Directors Remuneration Report the introduction of a post-vesting holding period for future awards made under the LTIP: and an increase in the share ownership guidelines to 200% of salary for all Executive Directors.
The Committee is satisfied that the framework set out in the policy supports our strategy and that the combination of metrics in our short and long-term incentive plans are aligned to the Groups profitability and the strategic plan.
This provides a platform against which the Executive Directors and management can be incentivised to achieve the all-round Group strategy, aligning these interests with those of shareholders.
To mitigate any risk, we review the metrics each year and the targets are set in line with the strategic plan.
Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration in 2015 Remuneration Committee In respect of the period 1 July to 31 December 2015, bonuses of I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report between 136.1% and 143.7% of six months salary were awarded for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2016. to the Executive Directors.
This reflected performance against the corporate financial targets Adjusted Operating Profit and The Committees report is presented in the following sections: Value of New Business and individual non-financial measures.
In line with the Policy, two-thirds of bonus earned was paid 1.
This annual statement which summarises the key decisions post-tax in cash and one-third deferred into shares for three made by the Committee during the year and forms part years.
An overview of objectives, performance indicators and of the Annual Report on Remuneration: the resultant bonuses paid to the Executive Directors can be 2.
The Directors remuneration policy on pages 66 to 74 which found on pages 75 to 85. describes the key principles of our approach and will be put to a binding vote at the forthcoming AGM: and As outlined in Just Retirement Group plcs 2015 remuneration 3.
The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 74 to 85 which report, long-term incentives were awarded to Executive describes how the Committee applied the remuneration Directors in November 2015.
These awards are subject to policy.
Given the extended financial year, the Committee performance targets based on Adjusted Operating Profit has operated the policy in two separate periods: 1 July Growth and Relative Total Shareholder Return.
Information about the key decisions made have been Remuneration in 2016 reported in each period and are presented in separate 2016 has been a year of considerable change for the Group parts of this report.
against which we have delivered an excellent set of results.
We are ahead of schedule in integrating the two businesses, The strategic context with progress helped by the significant similarities between the As has been highlighted during the merger process, JRP intends two companies and by the strong management team that we to use its combined intellectual property and greater scale to have appointed to help deliver the opportunities before us.
accelerate the strategies of Just Retirement and Partnership The Group is focused on growing profits and delivering simple Assurance, allowing the business to sustain its position in the to understand, good value products and services to our retail rapidly developing retirement income market, generating and wholesale customers.
improved outcomes for customers and strong returns for investors.
The combined Group will offer scale and growth in Remuneration practices in 2016 were focused primarily on attractive segments, provide a more efficient distribution, reviewing the Remuneration Policy for the merged Group, provide synergy potential, high quality cash generation and reviewing the remuneration arrangements of the Executives of enhanced capital position.
The strategy for the Group is set out the merged Group and our variable pay plans.
During the year, in the Strategic Report and focuses on creating long-term value the Committee reviewed the salaries of our senior employees for our shareholders, through consolidating our position in our including our three Executive Directors in light of the increased core markets and delivering growth and diversification through size and complexity of the Group which has grown from total new business, thereby delivering a sustainable growth in profit.
assets of 11.2bn to 23.9bn at 31 December 2016 and from 769 employed to 1045 as at 31 December 2016: and the Remuneration Policy performance of the Executives in leading the integration of the In Just Retirement Group plcs 2015 remuneration report we two companies following the merger.
Increases of 5% were noted that the remuneration policy for the Group would be awarded to Rodney Cook and Simon Thomas and an increase of reviewed following completion of the merger with Partnership 1.7% was awarded to David Richardson.
The salaries of Rodney Assurance Group plc.
This review has resulted in a number of Cook and Simon Thomas remain below the Committees changes to the policy to be proposed at the AGM in May 2017. assessment of a competitive level for their current roles and These are relatively minor in nature and reflect developments below the level of their counterparts previously at Partnership in market and best practice and include: and the Committee will keep these under review with a view, subject to ongoing performance, to moving them to a market Replacement of Adjusted Operating Profit with adjusted position over time.
Earnings Per Share as a performance target for future awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Bonuses of between 143.8% and 147.5% of salary were Group Chief Executive Officer total remuneration awarded to the Executive Directors for the period 1 January In line with regulatory requirements the total remuneration to 31 December 2016.
This reflected performance against the table contained within the Annual Report on Remuneration corporate financial targets Adjusted Operating Profit, New covers the financial period 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2016. Business Profit and Merger Synergy Savings and individual During this period, Rodney Cook received remuneration in non-financial measures.
In line with the policy, two-thirds of respect of the two periods as follows: bonus earned will be paid post-tax in cash and one-third deferred into shares for three years.
The Committee is satisfied 1 July 31 December 2015 760,146 that this level of bonus pay-out is reflective of the financial 1 January 31 December 2016 1,867,822 performance we have delivered and the significant progress we have achieved against our strategic objectives.
An overview of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2017 objectives, performance indicators and the resultant bonuses In recognition of the performance the Group has achieved, the paid to the Executive Directors can be found on pages 75 to 85.
Remuneration Committee agreed that a salary review would take place with effect from 1 April 2017.
The level of awards for When two companies merge there are many issues that need to the Executive Directors and senior management and that for be resolved.
Combining two different remuneration programmes the general workforce has not yet been determined.
is one of those issues and the Committee has spent much of its year addressing this task.
Harmonising external benchmarks, The Committee has reviewed performance targets for the LTIP plus internal performance measures and targets, evaluation and proposes to replace Adjusted Operating Profit with Adjusted practices and contractual terms has been a necessary stage in Earnings Per Share for future awards made under the LTIP which the integration process.
In addition, the harmonisation of what rewards improvement in the Groups underlying performance, is were two different financial reporting dates into one has a measure of the Groups overall financial success and is visible impacted the application of certain remuneration programmes, to shareholders.
notably the Long Term Incentive Plan granting process as described below.
Conclusion We are committed to ensuring that remuneration practices In order to take account of the change to the Companys support the long-term success of the Group and reward year end from 30 June to 31 December, the Remuneration performance that is aligned with outcomes for shareholders.
Committee reviewed the timing of the annual grant of longterm incentive awards.
These are normally granted after the The Directors Remuneration Report announcement of the Companys preliminary results, which This report describes the details of the remuneration policy for in previous years was typically in late September of each year.
our Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and sets In order to align the grant of long-term incentives with the out how this policy has been used and, accordingly, the 31 December year end, the 2016 grant was therefore made in amounts paid relating to the period ended 31 December 2016. late April 2016, shortly after completion of the merger.
For these awards, in order to incentivise the rapid and efficient integration The report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the two businesses, the Committee decided to introduce an of the Companies Act 2006, the FCAs Listing Rules and The additional measure linked to achievement of cost synergies Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and over the next three years.
Further details of these measures Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The report has also are provided later in this report.
Before granting these awards, been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK we consulted with more than 50% of shareholders and Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, in order to ensure the management team was fully aligned with the targets, our Directors Remuneration Policy shareholders and with each other, the Committee determined The Directors remuneration policy sets out the Groups that awards at the normal maximum level permitted under our remuneration policy for its Executive and Non-Executive policy should be granted.
As a result of this and the change of Directors and will be put to shareholder vote at the forthcoming timing in the grant of awards, the aggregate value of awards AGM.
The policy has been developed taking into account the granted to the former Executive Directors of Just Retirement are principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, guidelines greater than the level that might normally be expected under from major investors and guidance from the PRA and FCA on the Policy in an 18 month period.
The Committee is aware that best practice.
this situation is anomalous and wishes to make shareholders aware that when determining award levels for the grant of the Purpose and role of the Remuneration Committee 2017 LTIP later in the year it will seek to ensure that, when The Remuneration Committee the Committee has considered over the 30 month period from 1 July 2015 to responsibility for determining the overall pay policy for the Group.
31 December 2017, the aggregate level of awards granted is appropriate.
In particular, the Committee is responsible for: During the period, awards made under the LTIP in 2013 vested Approving the framework or broad policy for the in November 2016.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer, the for the 50% of the award that was subject to TSR performance Chairman of the Group, the Executive Directors, and other targets were not met, and that 50% of the award subject to the senior management: adjusted operating profit targets were met, resulting in approving their remuneration packages and service contracts: commensurate vesting.
Further details can be found on page 78. reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued approving the design of, and determining targets for, all More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration performance-related pay schemes operated by the Group structure, there is no restriction on the Committee that prevents and approving the total annual payments made under it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters.
such schemes: In addition, the Committee regularly reviews the remuneration reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval packages for the Groups Executive Directors and senior by the Board and shareholders.
For any such plans, the management, via liaison with the Group Risk and Compliance Committee determines each year whether awards will be Committee and the Groups Risk function, to ensure that they made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the do not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
individual awards to Executive Directors and other senior management, and the performance targets to be used: Considerations when setting remuneration monitoring the remuneration and risk-management From time to time, a review of remuneration is undertaken to implications of remuneration of senior executives across the ensure reward levels are competitive with the external market, Group and senior staff in the risk, control and governance taking account of the duties and responsibilities of the roles.
functions: and overseeing the implementation of the Group remuneration In line with JRPs broader remuneration framework that is policy for those roles within the scope of the specific intended to ensure consistency and common practice across arrangements referred to in Article 275 of Solvency II.
the Group, and in determining the overall levels of remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee also pays due regard The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups to pay and conditions elsewhere in the organisation.
website and are available in hard copy on request from the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles, which form the basis for decisions on Executive Directors pay, Remuneration Committees objectives are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest When setting the policy for Directors remuneration, the of the workforce are taken.
For example, the Committee takes Committee takes into account the overall business strategy and into account the general salary increase for the broader risk tolerance, considering the long-term interests of the Group, employee population when conducting the salary review for with the aim of delivering rewards to shareholders.
Consistent with these principles, the Committee has agreed However, there are some structural differences in the Executive a remuneration policy for senior management, including Directors Remuneration Policy as set out overleaf compared Executive Directors, whereby: to that for the broader employee base, which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the differing levels of seniority Both salaries and total pay potential will be set at competitive and responsibility.
A greater weight is placed on performancelevels compared to insurance peers and other companies of based pay through the quantum and participation levels in equivalent size and complexity: incentive schemes.
This ensures the remuneration of the Executive Directors is aligned with the performance of the performance-related pay, based on stretching targets, will Group and therefore the interests of shareholders.
form a significant part of remuneration packages: and there will be an appropriate balance between short and Shareholder views longer-term performance targets linked to delivery of the The Group values and is committed to dialogue with its Groups business plan.
The Committee will consider investor feedback and the voting results received in relation to relevant AGM Key considerations, therefore, are to: resolutions each year.
In addition, the Committee will engage proactively with shareholders, and will ensure that shareholders Align Directors remuneration with the interests of are consulted in advance where any material changes to the shareholders, customers and other external stakeholders: Directors Remuneration Policy are proposed.
operate remuneration practices in order to attract, motivate, reward and retain appropriately qualified and experienced Key changes to the Policy individuals of the highest calibre: To reflect the change in the financial year, any base salary increases will be effective from 1 April.
link pay to long-term performance: ensure disclosures provide transparency and accountability: For LTIP awards to be made in 2017 onwards two performance encourage a high performing culture: and metrics will normally be used: relative TSR and growth in adjusted EPS.
In addition a post-vesting holding period will ensure remuneration and incentives support good risk apply.
Executive Directors are required to retain the LTIP shares management practice.
that vest net of tax for a period of two years.
The two-year holding requirement will continue if they leave employment In line with The Investment Association IA guidelines on during the holding period.
The shares held will count towards Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure the Executive Directors normal holding requirement.
Finally, that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior the share ownership guidelines will increase to 200% of salary management will not raise environmental, social or governance for all Executive Directors.
ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Remuneration components Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Base salary Provides a competitive and Set at a level which provides a fair reward for There is no formal maximum: appropriate level of basic fixed the role and which is competitive amongst however, increases will normally pay to help recruit and retain relevant peers.
be in line with the general Directors of a sufficiently increase for the broader high calibre.
Normally reviewed annually with any changes employee population.
More taking effect from 1 April.
significant increases may be Reflects an individuals awarded from time to time to experience, performance and Set taking into consideration individual and Group recognise, for example, responsibilities within the Group.
performance, the responsibilities and development in role and change accountabilities of each role, the experience of in position or responsibility.
each individual, his or her marketability and the Groups key dependencies on the individual.
Current salary levels are disclosed in the Annual Report Reference is also made to salary levels amongst on Remuneration section relevant insurance peers and other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
The Committee considers the impact of any basic salary increase on the total remuneration package.
Benefits and Provides competitive, Each Executive Director currently receives an The benefits allowance is subject pension appropriate and cost-effective annual benefits allowance in lieu of pension, car, to an annual cap of 15% of base benefits and pension.
private medical insurance and other benefits.
salary plus 20,000, although Each Executive Director also receives life this may be subject to minor assurance and permanent health insurance.
amendment to reflect changes in market rates.
The benefits provided may be subject to minor amendment from time to time by the Committee The cost of the other benefits within this Policy.
provision varies from year to year and there is no prescribed The Group operates a money purchase pension maximum limit.
However, the scheme into which Directors may elect to pay Committee monitors annually part of their benefits allowance as a company the overall cost of the benefits contribution, having regard to government limits provided to ensure that it on both annual amounts and lifetime allowances.
Short Term Incentivises the execution of Paid annually, any bonus under the STIP is The on-target bonus payable to incentive plan annual goals by driving and discretionary and subject to achievement of a Executive Directors is 75% of STIP rewarding performance against combination of stretching corporate financial and base salary with 150% of base individual and corporate targets.
Corporate measures normally determine at least Compulsory deferral of a two-thirds of the STIP opportunity.
The bonus payable at the proportion into Group shares minimum level of performance provides alignment with One-third or such higher proportion as has varies from year to year and is shareholders.
been determined by the Committee of any bonus dependent on the degree of earned will be deferred into awards over shares stretch and the absolute level under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP, of budgeted profit.
with awards normally vesting after a three-year period.
Dividends will accrue on DSBP awards over the vesting period The Committee has the discretion to adjust the and be paid out either as cash deferral percentage if required to comply with or as shares on vesting and in future regulatory requirements relevant to the respect of the number of shares insurance industry.
The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding award in specific circumstances.
The Committee also has the authority to recover clawback all, or a portion of, amounts already paid in specific circumstances and within a defined timeframe.
These provisions apply to both the cash and deferred elements of the STIP.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity 1 Long Term Rewards the achievement of Annual awards of performance shares normally The maximum opportunity is incentive plan sustained long-term financial vest after three years subject to performance 250% of base salary.
However LTIP and operational performance conditions and continued service.
Performance the normal policy is that awards and is therefore aligned with the is normally tested over a period of at least three made to the CEO and other delivery of value to shareholders.
Executive Directors are 200% and 150% of base salary Facilitates share ownership to Awards are normally subject to an absolute respectively.
provide further alignment with financial growth measure and Total Shareholder shareholders.
Return TSR relative to the constituents of Dividends will accrue on LTIP a relevant comparator index or peer group.
awards over the vesting period Granting of annual awards aids and be paid out either as cash retention.
25% vests at threshold under the financial growth or as shares on vesting and in measure.
25% vests at median for the relative respect of the number of shares TSR condition.
There is straight-line vesting for that have vested.
performance between threshold and maximum.
Different performance measures and or weightings may be applied for future awards as appropriate.
However, the Committee will consult in advance with major shareholders prior to any significant changes being made.
The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion, of an outstanding award in specific circumstances.
A post-vesting holding period will apply to Executive Directors for awards made in 2017 and beyond.
Executive Directors are required to retain the LTIP shares that vest net of tax and NICs for a period of two years.
The two-year holding requirement will continue if they leave employment during the holding period.
The shares held will count towards the Executive Directors normal holding requirement.
All-employee Encourages employee share The Group may from time to time operate The schemes are subject to the share plans ownership and therefore tax-approved share plans such as HMRClimits set by HMRC from time increases alignment with approved Save As You Earn Share Option Plan to time.
and Share Incentive Plan for which Executive Directors could be eligible.
Shareholding Encourages Executive Directors Each Executive Director must build up and Not applicable.
guideline to build a meaningful maintain a shareholding in the Group equivalent shareholding in the Group so as to 200% of base salary.
to further align interests with shareholders.
Until the guideline is met, Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of any LTIP or DSBP awards that vest or are exercised, net of tax.
1 Awards may be structured as nil-cost options which will be exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Committee discretions The LTIP measures include a financial growth measure and The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans TSR performance.
Relative TSR has been selected as it reflects according to their respective rules.
To ensure the efficient comparative performance against a broad index of companies operation and administration of these plans, the Committee that are similar in size to the Group.
It also aligns the rewards retains discretion in relation to a number of areas.
Consistent received by Executives with the returns received by shareholders.
with market practice, these include but are not limited to For awards granted in 2017 onwards, it is intended that the the following: financial growth measures will be based on growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share as it rewards improvement in the Groups Selecting the participants: underlying financial performance and is a measure of the Groups overall financial success and is visible to shareholders.
the timing of grant and or payment: the size of grants and or payments within the limits set out A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for all in the Policy table above : of these measures and further details of the targets to be the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: applied are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Determination of a good leaver and where relevant the The Committee will review the choice of performance measures extent of vesting in the case of the share-based plans: and the appropriateness of the performance targets and TSR treatment in exceptional circumstances such as a change peer group prior to each LTIP grant.
of control, in which the Committee would act in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders: Different performance measures and or weightings may be making the appropriate adjustments required in certain applied for future awards as appropriate.
However, the circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring Committee will consult in advance with major shareholders events, variation of capital and special dividends : prior to any significant changes being made.
cash settling awards: and Legacy awards the annual review of performance measures, weightings and Authority was given to the Group to honour any commitments setting targets for the discretionary incentive plans from year entered into with current or former Directors that pre-date the to year.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Any performance conditions may be amended or substituted as they arise.
if one or more events occur which cause the Committee to reasonably consider that the performance conditions would Remuneration policy on recruitment or promotion not, without alteration, achieve their original purpose.
Any Remuneration package on appointment varied performance condition would not be materially less The on-going remuneration package for a new Executive difficult to satisfy in the circumstances.
Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Groups shareholder-approved remuneration policy at the time How performance measures are chosen of appointment and the maximum limits set out therein.
The Committee chose the combination of metrics in our short and long-term incentive plans so they are aligned to the Groups Salaries may be set at a below-market level initially with a view profitability and the strategic plan.
This provides a platform to increasing them to the market rate, subject to individual against which the Executive Directors and management can be performance and developing into the role, by making phased incentivised to achieve the all-round Group strategy, aligning above-inflation increases.
these interests with those of shareholders.
Maximum opportunity under the incentive plans The STIP is based on performance against a stretching Currently, for an Executive Director, STIP payments will not combination of financial and non-financial performance exceed 150% of base salary and LTIP payments will not measures.
The measures are set taking account of the Groups normally exceed 200% of base salary not including any key operational objectives and include metrics for corporate arrangements to replace forfeited entitlements.
In addition, Executive Directors and members of the senior management team are assessed on Where necessary, specific STIP and LTIP targets may be personal objectives as agreed by the Committee at the introduced for an individual for the first year of appointment if it beginning of the year.
The Committee reviews the focus each is appropriate to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities year and varies them as appropriate to reflect the priorities and the point in the year at which they joined the Board.
for the business in the year ahead.
Corporate financial performance measures account for at least two-thirds of the STIP opportunity.
A sliding scale of targets is set for each financial KPI to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of stretch performance.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments beyond the remuneration policy STIP The Committee retains flexibility to offer additional cash and or There will be no automatic entitlement to a bonus if an share-based awards on appointment to take account of Executive Director has ceased employment or is under notice remuneration or benefit arrangements forfeited by an Executive on the last day of the financial year.
However, the Committee Director on leaving a previous employer.
If shares are used, may at its discretion pay a pro-rated bonus in respect of the such awards may be made under the terms of the LTIP or as proportion of the financial year worked.
Such payment could permitted under the Listing Rules.
be payable in cash and not subject to deferral.
Such payments would take into account the nature of awards LTIP and DSBP forfeited and would reflect as far as possible performance Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director conditions, attributed expected value and the time over which under the Groups share plans will be treated in accordance with they would have vested or been paid.
Usually, any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill-health, injury, disability, The Committee may agree that the Group will meet certain redundancy, retirement with the consent of the Committee, relocation, legal, tax equalisation and any other incidental the sale of the entity that employs him her out of the Group, expenses as appropriate, so as to enable the recruitment of or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, the best people including those who need to relocate.
good leaver status may be applied.
Internal appointments For good leavers under the LTIP, outstanding awards will vest In the case of an internal Executive Director appointment, at the original vesting date to the extent that the performance any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role condition has been satisfied and be reduced on a pro-rata basis may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, and adjusted to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, grant date and the date on which the participant ceases to be any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to employed by the Group.
The Committee retains the discretion appointment may continue.
to vest awards and measure performance accordingly on cessation and disapply time pro-rating: however, it is envisaged Executive Directors terms of employment and loss of office that this would only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
Service agreements and notice periods For good leavers under the DSBP, unvested awards will usually The Executive Directors have entered into service agreements vest in full upon cessation.
with an indefinite term that may be terminated by either party on six months written notice.
Contracts for new appointments In determining whether a departing Executive Director should will be terminable by either party on a maximum of 12 months be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into written notice.
account the performance of the individual and the business unit Group over the whole period of employment and the An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated reasons for the individuals departure.
summarily without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of Treatment of outstanding share awards if there is a takeover or termination, if they are deemed to be guilty of gross misconduct other corporate event or for any other material breach of the obligations under their The treatment of outstanding awards on a takeover or other employment contract.
corporate event such as a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion of the Committee, may The Group may suspend an Executive Director or put them on affect the current or future value of shares mirrors that set out a period of garden leave during which they will be entitled to above in relation to a good leaver albeit with the vesting period salary, benefits and pension.
automatically ending on the date of the relevant event.
If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated in Alternatively, the Committee may permit or, in the case of an other circumstances, compensation is limited to base salary internal reorganisation or if the Board so determines, require due for any unexpired notice period and any amount assessed both LTIP and DSBP awards to be exchanged for equivalent by the Committee as representing the value of other contractual awards which relate to shares in a different company.
benefits which would have been received during the period.
At the Companys discretion a payment in lieu of notice PILON External directorships may be made.
Such PILON payments will normally be phased Executive Directors are permitted to accept one external and subject to mitigation.
The Group may choose to continue appointment with the prior approval of the Chairman and where providing some benefits instead of paying a cash sum there is no impact on their role with the Group.
The Board will representing their cost.
determine on a case-by-case basis whether the Executive Directors will be permitted to retain any fees arising from such Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise appointments, details of which will be provided in the Annual claims in connection with a termination including, at the Report on Remuneration section.
discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice and provision of outplacement services would be paid as necessary.
Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Groups registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Illustration of the 2017 Remuneration Policy Illustration of 2017 Remuneration Policy Under the Directors Remuneration Policy, a significant Group Chief Executive O cer proportion of total remuneration is linked to Group Minimum 100% 720,350 performance.
The following charts illustrate how the Executive Directors total pay package varies under three On-target 50% 31% 19% 1,451,150 different performance scenarios: fixed pay only, on-target and at maximum.
These charts are indicative, as share price Maximum 25% 32% 43% 2,851,850 movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
All assumptions made are noted below the chart.
Group Deputy Chief Executive O cer 100% 531,750 Minimum Assumptions: 52% 33% 15% 1,015,688 On-target Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits allowance On-target fixed pay plus 50% payout of the maximum STIP Maximum 28% 36% 36% 1,866,750 opportunity and 25% of maximum LTIP award1 Group Chief Financial O cer Maximum fixed pay plus 100% or maximum payout of the STIP and LTIP awards1 Minimum 100% 430,550 On-target 53% 33% 15% 818,788 The Executive Directors can participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that Maximum 28% 36% 1,501,550 36% may be received under these schemes is subject to taxapproved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m from participating in these schemes has been excluded from Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP the above charts.
1 Awards under the LTIP can be up to 250% of base salary: however, the normal policy is that awards made to the Group Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Directors are 200% and 150% of base salary respectively.
The normal policy figures have been used in the charts above.
Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Non-Executive To attract and retain a The Chairman is paid a single fixed fee.
The NonThe Companys Articles of Director fees high-calibre Chairman and Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The Chairs of Association place a limit on Non-Executive Directors by the main Board Committees and the Senior the aggregate fees of the offering market-competitive Independent Director are paid an additional fee to Non-Executive Directors of fee levels.
Additional fees may 1m p. a. be paid where in exceptional circumstances the normal time commitment of the Chairman is significantly The Committee is guided exceeded in any year.
by the general increase for the broader employee Reviewed periodically by the Committee and Group population, but on Chief Executive Officer for the Chairman, and by the occasions may need to Chairman and Executive Directors for the Non-Executive recognise, for example, Directors.
changes in responsibility, and or time commitments.
Set taking into consideration market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, the time Current fee levels are commitment and responsibilities of the role, and to disclosed in the Annual reflect the experience and expertise required.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
They may also receive limited travel or accommodationrelated benefits in connection with their role as a Director.
The Non-Executive Directors will not participate in the Groups share, bonus or pension schemes.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Recruitment policy on appointment of a new Chairman or Operation of the Remuneration Committee during the Non-Executive Director 18month period ended 31 December 2016 For a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee Members of the Remuneration Committee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved The Committee is made up exclusively of Independent Nonremuneration policy in force at that time.
The Committee is chaired by Ian Cormack appointed on 4 April 2016 and its other members are Chris Terms of appointment for the Chairman and Non-Executive Gibson-Smith appointed on 4 April 2016, Michael Deakin Directors appointed on 23 March 2015, and Steve Melcher appointed on All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with 4 April 2016.
The following Non-Executive Directors resigned on the Group for an initial period of three years, subject to annual 4 April 2016, Kate Avery, Tom Cross Brown and Keith Nicholson.
re-election by the Group at a general meeting.
External assistance provided to the Committee The Chairmans appointment may be terminated by either party New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, with six months notice.
It may also be terminated at any time if part of Aon plc, is retained as the independent adviser to the he is removed as a Director by resolution at a general meeting Remuneration Committee.
NBS has no other connection with or pursuant to the Articles, provided that in such circumstances the Group and provides no other services to the Group.
the Group will except where the removal is by reason of his misconduct pay the Chairman an amount in lieu of his fees for NBS has been appointed by the Committee to provide advice the unexpired portion of his notice period.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires that its advice be The appointment of each Non-Executive Director may be objective and impartial.
The Committee will review annually the terminated at any time with immediate effect if he she is performance and independence of its advisers.
removed as a Director by resolution at a general meeting or pursuant to the Articles.
The Non-Executive Directors other The total fees paid to NBS for providing advice and information than the Chairman are not entitled to receive any related to remuneration and employee share plans to the compensation on termination of their appointment.
Committee during the year were 82,879.
The fees charged are predominantly charged on a time spent basis.
Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the Group during normal business hours Internal assistance provided to the Committee The Group Chief Executive Officer Rodney Cook and other and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
senior management Jane Kennedy, Group Chief Operating Officer and Alex Duncan, Group Chief Risk Officer were invited Annual Report on Remuneration to attend meetings as the Committee considered appropriate, This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out a but did not take part in discussions directly regarding their own summary of how the Directors Remuneration Policy was remuneration.
applied over the extended financial period ending 31 December 2016 and will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Details of the remuneration earned by Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the outcomes of the incentive schemes, together with the link to Group performance, are provided in this section.
As outlined in the Committee Chairmans annual statement, for the purpose of operating the Policy the extended financial year was divided into two periods being 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015, and 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.
Various disclosures of the detailed information about the Directors remuneration set out below have been audited by the Groups independent auditor, KPMG.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Total remuneration audited 2015 1 July to 31 December 2015 In line with regulatory requirements the total remuneration Executive Directors STIP targets table contained within the Annual Report on Remuneration For the six months of 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015 the section covers the financial period 1 July 2015 to 31 December performance targets set for the STIP were based two-thirds on 2016.
Although we are reporting on an 18 month period, the corporate financial performance measures and one-third on Remuneration policy was operational in two separate periods personal non-financial performance measures.
While the and to assist with understanding we have broken down the specific targets are considered by the Board to be commercially elements of the report into those two periods: 1 July sensitive information, ranges were set.
The performance outcome against the targets set for the STIP in 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015 was as follows: Results % of six months salary Weighting as a percentage of six Measure Threshold Target Maximum months salary Actual Rodney Cook Simon Thomas Shayne Deighton Pre-tax 28m 32m 37m 50.0 45m 50% 50% 50% adjusted Operating Profit Value of New 37m 42m 48m 50.0 85m 50% 50% 50% Business Rank Rank Rank Strategic Lead investor, EX Provide clear EX Manage capital EX media and direction and active and pricing analysts briefings management through the and ensure a of Investor transition from successful equity expectations ahead Solvency I and raise as part of and in the light of Solvency II, the merger the pending merger including review of hedging programs and calculation of Transitional Adjustments Leadership Provide leadership EX Investigate, A Manage A consistent with manage and lead relationship with JRP values.
Lead planning for a key reassurers the merger project capital markets through the and discussions on equity raise merger process integration terms and respond to market changes People, Work to maintain EX Develop the talent EX Motivate and A talent and morale and the within the finance engage actuarial engagement Groups excellent function, so they and capital customer service are an increasingly management reputation during professional staff through the the period of senior team, able difficult period of uncertainty caused to support the Solvency II and by the merger combined entity merger finalisation announcement Risk Maintain a A Manage the EX Deliver full and EX regulatory successful ongoing delivery of all timely response compliance relationship with key financial to PRA so as to all regulators in information for the ensure regulatory the lead up to merger including approval for merger.
Work to the prospectus, both Matching achieve a positive working capital and Adjustment and outcome from the capital raise circular Internal Model for Competition Review Solvency II go-live of the merger on 1 January 2016 JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Results % of six months salary Weighting as a percentage of six Measure Threshold Target Maximum months salary Actual Rodney Cook Simon Thomas Shayne Deighton Financial Ensure risk EX Deliver Group EX Deliver all EX Management management financials for the actuarial capital approach is combined entity information in enhanced and and develop key relation to the timely submission combined financial merger including, of all necessary metrics for the in particular, documentation to JRP Group.
Initiate working capital achieve approval the creation projections of the Groups of a combined Solvency II Internal Business Plan that Model application can be used to manage internal and external expectations following the merger Total percentage of salary on personal non-financial 43.8% 35.9% 43.5% performance measures from maximum opportunity of 50% Rank Below B, Met M, Above A, Exceeded EX Shares awarded under the DSBP will vest after three years subject to continued service.
2015 LTIP awards Audited Type of % of salary Number of Face Threshold End of performance 1 1 2 2 Date of grant award at grant shares value vesting period Rodney Cook 6 November 2015 nil-cost 200% of 706,025 1,160,000 25% 30 June 2018 options 580,000 Simon Thomas 6 November 2015 nil-cost 150% of 310,407 510,000 25% 30 June 2018 options 340,000 Shayne Deighton 6 November 2015 nil-cost 150% of 310,407 510,000 25% 30 June 2018 options 340,000 1 Awards were granted at a share price of 164.3p being the average of the middle-market quotations of shares over the five consecutive dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant.
2 Half of the award is subject to growth in the Groups adjusted operating profit.
If adjusted operating profit for the twelve months ending 30 June 2018 exceeds adjusted operating profit for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 by 7.5% p. a. equivalent to 29.5% cumulative growth, 25% of the award will vest.
The award will vest in full for growth of 15% p. a. equivalent to 64% cumulative growth with payment on a sliding scale in-between these points.
No award will vest if cumulative growth is below 29.5%.
Half of the award is subject to TSR performance relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts, mining companies and oil and gas producers.
Vesting of 25% of these awards will occur for median performance and the maximum 100% will vest for upper quartile performance or above, with straight-line vesting between these points.
None of these awards will vest if TSR is below the median.
2016 1 January to 31 December 2016 Executive Directors STIP targets For 2016 the performance targets set for the STIP were based two-thirds on corporate financial performance measures and one-third on personal non-financial performance measures.
While the specific targets are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information, ranges were set.
The performance outcome against the targets set for the STIP in 2015 16 wasas follows: Results % of salary Weighting as a percentage Measure Threshold Target Maximum of salary Actual Rodney Cook David Richardson Simon Thomas Pre-tax 100m 115m 130m 33.3% 157m 33.3% 33.3% 33.3% adjusted Operating Profit IFRS New 85m 100m 115m 33.3% 123m 33.3% 33.3% 33.3% Business Profit Synergy 15m 20m 25m 33.3% 30m 33.3% 33.3% 33.3% Savings Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Results % of salary Weighting as a percentage Measure Threshold Target Maximum of salary Actual Rodney Cook David Richardson Simon Thomas Rank Rank Rank Strategic Develop partner EX Support A Develop and build EX relationships development of strong relationships as part of the overall strategy with key investors enhanced merged for JRP.
Lead and investment company strategy development of managers.
Ensure and ensure the financial framework appropriate business is fit and reinsurance management for purpose to strategy for the of expectations deliver against the new Group approved strategy Leadership Provide leadership EX Provide leadership A Lead the EX consistent with JRP consistent with development, values.
Lead the developing values reporting and merger integration of JRP Group.
Lead presentation of and respond to Defined Benefit results to the equity market changes in solutions team market particularly the post Solvency in the post-merger II arena.
Lead environment equity and debt, investor, media and analysts briefings People, Support the EX Build best of breed EX Continue to A Talent and new Executive teams for JRP.
develop a talented Engagement team and senior Support teams and engaged management on delivering workforce, to in tackling the challenging deliver challenging significant changes performance performance required through objectives through objectives the integration disruption of and responding to merger market dynamics Risk Maintain a A Maintain A Regulatory successful ongoing successful ongoing Compliance relationship with relationship with all regulators postPRA through a merger.
Ensure time of significant risk management change.
Ongoing approach is management enhanced and of Matching timely handling Adjustment of new SII requirements requirements Financial Manage capital EX Develop the EX Management position Groups debt successfully capitaland through time of liquidity facility significant business management and economic change.
Deliver investment strategy, particularly new requirements of Solvency II Total percentage of salary on personal non-financial 47.5% 43.75% 46.25% performance measures from maximum opportunity of 50% Rankings Below B, Met M, Above A, Exceeded Expectations EX Shares awarded under the DSBP will vest after three years subject to continued service.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 78 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Vesting of LTIP awards with a performance period ending in 2016 audited The awards for which the performance period ended during 2016 is as follows: % of this Vesting Performance award Award Measure Weighting Scale achieved vesting No vesting if Adjusted Operating Profit OP growth below 9% p. a.
20% vests if OP growth equal to 9% p. a.
100% vests if OP growth exceeds 18% p. a. Straight-line pro-rata basis Adjusted operating from 20% to 100% if OP growth exceeds 9% p. a. but is less profit 50% than 18% p. a.
15.65% 79.1% 2013 No vesting if TSR is below the median TSR, 25% vests if equal to median TSR, 100% vests at upper quartile.
Pro-rata vesting Relative TSR 50% between the median and upper quartile TSR 25% to 100%.
nil nil Number Number Number Share price of shares of shares of shares at vesting 15 Value at grant % vested vested lapsed Nov 2016 at vesting Rodney Cook 503,218 39.5% 199,022 304,196 1.294 257,534 Simon Thomas 222,405 39.5% 87,961 134,444 1.294 113,822 2016 LTIP awards Audited Type of % of salary Number Face Threshold End of performance 1 1 2 2 Date of grant award at grant of shares value vesting period Rodney Cook 28 September 2016 nil-cost 200% of 42,606 58,000 25% 31 December 2018 options 609,000 21 April 2016 852,126 1,160,000 31 December 2018 David Richardson 28 September 2016 nil-cost 150% of 6,060 8,250 25% 31 December 2018 options 443,000 21 April 2016 482,075 656,250 31 December 2018 Simon Thomas 28 September 2016 nil-cost 150% of 18,732 25,500 25% 31 December 2018 options 357,000 21 April 2016 374,641 510,000 31 December 2018 1 Awards were granted at a share price of 136.13p on grant made on 21 April 2016, and 28 September 2016, being the average of the middle-market quotations of shares over the five consecutive dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant.
The grant of the 2016 LTIP awards was made on 21 April 2016, prior to the determination of salaries for the year.
A further grant of awards was made in September 2016 to reflect the increased salaries.
These awards will vest three years after grant subject to the same performance conditions as the April 2016 awards.
2 50% of the award is subject to TSR performance relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts, mining companies and oil and gas producers.
25% of the award is subject to cost-synergy targets.
3 25% of the award is subject to growth in the Groups adjusted operating profit.
If adjusted operating profit for the twelve months ending 31 December 2018 exceeds adjusted operating profit for the twelve months ending 31 December 2015 by 9% p. a. equivalent to 29.5% cumulative growth, 25% of the award will vest.
No award will be made if cumulative growth is below 29.5%.
4 25% of the award is subject to the Annual Synergy Savings Target.
Where the Companys total pre-tax realised cost savings per annum over the performance period are at 40m, the Annual Synergy Saving Performance percentage shall be 25% threshold.
The Committee has set the 100% vesting level at a stretching target which is above the 45m recently advised to the market.
Between each point, intermediate results shall be calculated by interpolation.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Payments made to past Directors during 2016 audited In November 2016 Shayne Deighton received 87,961 vested shares from the 2013 LTIP which he exercised.
The value at the date of vesting was 113,822.
Shayne Deighton was paid an STIP of 481,250 for 2016.
This related to his service as an Executive Director and his continuing service after that date.
An amount of 120,312 representing his service as an Executive Director has been included in the single figure remuneration table.
Payments for loss of office made during 2016 audited There were no loss of office payments made during the year.
STIP payment in respect of 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 2014 15 Audited For 2014 15, the performance targets set for the STIP were based two-thirds on corporate financial performance measures and one-third on personal non-financial performance measures.
Whilst full details of the targets are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive, a summary of the targets and actual performance achieved is provided below.
The performance outcome against the targets set for the STIP in 2014 15 was as follows: Results % of salary Target range Weighting as a threshold payout percentage Rodney Simon Shayne Measure to maximum of salary Actual Cook Thomas Deighton Pre-tax operating profit 45m to 70m 50% 67.6m 40% 40% 40% New business value 64m to 94m 50% 98.1m 50% 50% 50% Personal non-financial performance measures 50% Total percentage of salary on personal non-financial performance measures from maximum opportunity of 50% 43.75% 33.25% 37.50% Shares awarded under the DSBP will vest after three years subject to continued service.
Vesting of LTIP awards with a performance period ending in 2015 Audited There were no awards vested during the period.
LTIP awards granted in 2014 15 Audited On 25 September 2014, the following LTIP awards were granted to Executive Directors: Maximum Number of Threshold End of performance 1 1 2 2 Type of award possible award shares Face value vesting period Rodney Cook nilcost options 200% of 560,000 806,916 1,120,000 25% 30 June 2017 Simon Thomas nilcost options 150% of 330,000 356,628 495,000 25% 30 June 2017 Shayne Deighton nilcost options 150% of 330,000 356,628 495,000 25% 30 June 2017 1 Awards were granted at a share price of 138.8p being the average of the middle-market quotations of shares over the five consecutive dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant.
2 Half the award is subject to growth in the Groups IFRS adjusted operating profit.
Since the impact of the 2014 Budget created a year of discontinuity in the Groups growth plans and great uncertainty in the UK guaranteed income for life segment, the Committee agreed to base its target on growth in the two years following the Groups actual profit achieved in 2014 15.
If IFRS adjusted operating profit for the financial year ending 30 June 2017 exceeds operating profit for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 by 18.8% equivalent to 9% p. a. cumulative growth, 25% of the award will vest.
The award will vest in full for growth of 39.2% equivalent to 18% p. a. cumulative growth with payment on a sliding scale in-between these points.
No award would be made if cumulative growth is below 18.8% or if actual profit at 30 June 2017 is less than 80m.
Payments made to post Directors during 2015 audited There were no payments made to any past Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office made during 2015 audited There were no loss of office payments made during the year.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 80 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Single figure of total remuneration audited The table below has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
To aid comparison, the single figure of total remuneration for the CEO is also broken down on page 67 as a 6 month 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015 figure and 12 month 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 figure: Employer Salary and pension 13 8 9 10 000 fees Benefits STIP LTIP contribution Other Total 12 8 Bonus DSBP Executive 12 Rodney Cook For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 892 164 877 437 258 2,628 For the year ended 30 June 2015 560 48 499 250 1,357 11,12 David Richardson For the 9 months ended 31 Dec 2016 332 65 318 160 875 12 Simon Thomas For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 523 111 502 251 114 1,501 For the year ended 30 June 2015 330 43 271 136 780 3 Shayne Deighton For the 9 months ended 4 April 2016 255 53 243 122 673 For the year ended 30 June 2015 330 37 281 140 788 Non-Executive 1 Chris Gibson-Smith For the 9 months ended 31 Dec 2016 188 188 Tom Cross Brown For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 270 270 For the year ended 30 June 2015 162 162 James Fraser For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 For the year ended 30 June 2015 2 Kate Avery For the 9 months ended 4 April 2016 56 56 For the year ended 30 June 2015 74 74 Keith Nicholson For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 120 120 For the year ended 30 June 2015 79 79 Michael Deakin For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 105 105 For the year ended 30 June 2015 66 66 Steve Melcher For the 18 months ended 31 Dec 2016 105 105 For the year ended 30 June 2015 24 24 4 Ian Cormack For the 9 months ended 31 Dec 2016 64 64 5 Peter Catterall For the 9 months ended 31 Dec 2016 6 Paul Bishop For the 9 months ended 31 Dec 2016 56 56 7 Clare Spottiswoode For the 9 months ended 31 Dec 2016 45 45 1 Chris Gibson-Smith was appointed Chairman of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
2 Kate Avery resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 4 April 2016.
3 Shayne Deighton resigned as an Executive Director on 4 April 2016.
4 Ian Cormack was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
5 Peter Catterall was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
6 Paul Bishop was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
7 Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
8 One-third of bonus payments have been deferred into awards over shares under the DSBP and will vest after three years.
9 Awards were made under the LTIP in the period and the respective values will be reported on vesting in the respective Annual Report on Remuneration section.
10 Other includes the value of SAYE and SIP awards that vest after three or five years for SAYE, and three years for SIP.
11 David Richardson was appointed on 4 April 2016.
The bonus paid to David Richardson of 636,813 in respect of 2016 has been pro rated in this table to reflect his service as an Executive Director from 4 April 2016.
12 The amount of the bonus represented as a percentage of the 18 month salary: for Rodney Cook, 99.44%: for David Richardson, 96%: and for Simon Thomas, 96%.
13 Benefits include Executive allowance, and PMI.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Directors shareholding guidelines audited To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, each Executive Director must build up and maintain a shareholding in the Group equivalent to 200% of base salary, in line with the Policy in place at 31 December 2016.
Until the guideline is met, Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of any LTIP and DSBP share awards that vest or are exercised, net of tax.
Each of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to invest in the shares of the Company within two years of their date of appointment.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Partnership SIP shares upon merger converted into 217 JRP ordinary shares plus 15 SIP dividend shares.
Partnership LTIP 2013 scheme lapsed on Court Sanction Date and LTIP 2014 lapsed on 31 December 2016 as performance conditions were not met.
LTIP 2015 converted to 355,609 awards upon merger of which 20% vested on 31 December 2016, and the remaining 80% will vest in August 2018.
Partnership SAYE 2013 scheme lapsed on Court Sanction Date, and SAYE 2014 converted into 7,950 options.
2 As an eligible employee, the spouse of Simon Thomas holds 971 shares under the Groups Share Incentive Plan includes dividend shares and holds an option over 4,510 ordinary shares under the Companys Sharesave scheme.
3 Shayne Deighton resigned as a Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
LTIP 2013 grant vested in November 2016 50% TSR lapsed, and 15.65% performance achieved on adjusted operating profit, of which 79.1% vested.
Shayne Deighton exercised 87,961 options over ordinary shares in November 2016.
4 Chris Gibson-Smith was appointed Chairman of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
Total JRP shares held by Chris Gibson-Smith was 582,787 of which 291,429 are held by his spouse.
5 Kate Avery resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 4 April 2016.
6 Ian Cormack was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
7 Peter Catterall was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
8 Paul Bishop was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
9 Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of JRP Group plc on 4 April 2016.
10 Dividend shares are included in the SIP total.
11 David Richardson fulfilled the Company share ownership guidelines prior to the merger but fell below the threshold following transfer of Partnership Assurance Group plc shares for JRP Group plc shares.
2 Vesting of the LTIP awards made in November 2015 is based half on adjusted operating profit growth and half on relative TSR performance as described earlier in this report.
3 Vesting of the LTIP awards made in April and September 2016 is based 25% adjusted operating profit growth, 50% on relative TSR performance and 25% cost-synergy targets as described earlier in this report.
4 Dividend shares are included in the SIP total.
5 Awards granted during the period were for adjustments made to the awards following capital raise in October 2015 Placing and Open Offer 6 These were issued in Partnership Assurance Group plc and converted onto the JRP Group plc scheme on acquisition at 4 April 2016.
The closing share price of the Groups ordinary shares at 31 December 2016 was 1.4950 and the closing price range from the start of the financial year to the year end was 0.86 to 1.995.
Dilution The Committee supports the Investment Association guidelines regarding dilution and regularly monitors the Groups compliance with these requirements.
Assuming that all awards made under the Groups share plans vest in full, the Group has utilised 25.45% of the 10% in ten years dilution limit and 41.33% of the 5% in ten years dilution limit.
Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Contract letter Unexpired term of of appointment contract at Director effective date 31 December 2016 Rodney Cook 15 November 2013 Rolling contract David Richardson 4 April 2016 Rolling contract Simon Thomas 15 November 2013 Rolling contract Shayne Deighton resigned on 4 April 2016 15 November 2013 Chris Gibson-Smith 4 April 2016 Tom Cross Brown 1 August 2013 James Fraser 1 August 2013 Keith Nicholson 9 October 2013 Michael Deakin 30 April 2014 Steve Melcher 15 May 2015 Ian Cormack 4 April 2016 Peter Catterall 4 April 2016 Paul Bishop 4 April 2016 Clare Spottiswoode 4 April 2016 JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 84 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The Groups share performance compared to the FTSE 250 Index This graph shows a comparison of the Groups total shareholder return share price growth plus dividends paid with that of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts, mining companies, and oil and gas producers.
The Group has selected this index as it comprises companies of a comparable size and complexity and provides a good indication of the Groups relative performance.
Total shareholder return unaudited Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters Value rebased 150 125 100 75 50 Nov 2013 30 Jun 2014 30 Jun 2015 31 Dec 2016 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in JRP on 11 November 2013, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250, FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts, mining companies and oil and gas producers indices on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
JRP FTSE 250 FTSE 250 Index FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts excluding investment trusts, mining companies and oil and gas producers Total remuneration of the CEO during the same period unaudited The total remuneration of the CEO over the last five years is shown in the table below: 18 month period ended Year ended 30 June 31 December 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total remuneration 000 712 1,052 1,196 1,357 2,628 STIP as a % of maximum opportunity 58% 86% 63% 89% 97.5% LTIP vesting as a % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a 39.5% Percentage annual change in the Group Chief Executive Officers pay compared to that for JRP employees unaudited The table below shows the percentage change in each of the Group Chief Executive Officers salary, taxable benefits and STIP earned between 2014 15 and 2015 16, compared to that for the average employee of the Group on a per capita basis : Rodney Cook, CEO Average employee 18 month 18 month period ended Year ended period ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 30 June 2015 % change 31 Dec 2016 30 June 2015 % change Salary 000 892 560 59 70 46 52 Benefits 000 164 48 244 9 6 50 Bonus 000 1,314 749 75 19 11 73 Relative importance of spend on pay The Groups actual spend on pay for all employees for the year ended 30 June 2015 was 56.6m, and for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2016 was 136.7m.
During the 18 month period ended 31 December 2016, the Group paid total dividends of 32.9m year ended 30 June 2015: 16.5m.
Statement of voting at the Annual General Meeting unaudited At the Just Retirement 2015 AGM, shareholders were asked to vote on the 2015 16 Directors Remuneration Report.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 This resolution received a significant vote in favour by shareholders.
The votes received were: Votes % of Votes % of Votes Resolution for votes against votes withheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 489,352,755 99.69 1,544,423 0.31 3,864,325 Implementation of the remuneration policy in 2017 unaudited Base salaries The salaries and benefit allowances of the Executive Directors at the beginning of the financial year are: April 2016 1 July 2015 Base Benefit Base Benefit salary allowance salary allowance Rodney Cook 609,000 111,350 580,000 107,000 David Richardson 443,000 86,450 Simon Thomas 357,000 75,322 340,000 71,000 Operation of the STIP in 2017 No changes are proposed to the structure of the STIP for 2017.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose in advance the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive.
An explanation of bonus payouts and performance achieved will be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Operation of the LTIP in 2017 Award levels under the LTIP for the 2017 financial year have not yet been determined.
In doing so, the Committee will have regard to the level of awards granted during the 18 months, in order to ensure that award levels are appropriate when considered over the 30 month period from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2017.
The awards made in 2017 will be subject to the following performance conditions, measured over the three financial years to 31 December 2019: Earnings Per Share 50% of award Half the award will be subject to growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share over three years from the twelve months ending 31 December 2016.
These targets had not yet been determined by the date on which this report was finalised and will be disclosed to shareholders in next years Remuneration Report.
Relative TSR 50% of award Half of the award will be subject to TSR performance relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
Non-Executive Board fees Fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed on 8 March 2017 and no increases were awarded for 2017.
1 July 2015 for the 18 month 8 March 2017 4 April 2016 period Board Chairman 250,000 250,000 180,000 Deputy Chairman 180,000 180,000 Basic fee 60,000 60,000 60,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 10,000 Additional fee for Committee Chairman 15,000 15,000 10,000 Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Ian Cormack Chairman, Remuneration Committee 9 March 2017
