STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional information Land Securities Annual Report 2016 161 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Directors Remuneration Policy Summary of the individual elements of the remuneration package offered to Directors.
Executive Directors REMUNERATION POLICY Table 95 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Base salary To aid the recruitment, Reviewed annually, with effect from 1 June, For 2016 17, the annual base The Committee has the discretion retention and motivation of and reflects: salaries of the Executive Directors to determine the precise amount high performing Executive Increases throughout the rest of the are 768,668 Chief Executive, and of base salary within the Policy, Directors business 500,360 Chief Financial Officer, including approving the salary Market benchmarking exercise representing a 2% increase for a newly-appointed Executive To reflect the value of their undertaken periodically to ensure salaries The maximum annual salary Director.
It will also determine experience, skills and are set at around the median of the market increase will not normally exceed whether there are specific reasons knowledge, and importance competitive level for people in comparable the average increase across the to award salary increases greater to the business.
roles with similar levels of experience, rest of the workforce 2016 17: than those for the wider workforce.
Higher increases will be Changes in the scope of an Executive exceptional, and made in specific Directors role may also require a further circumstances, including: adjustment to salary.
Increase in responsibilities or scope of the role To apply salary progression for a newly appointed Director Where the Executive Directors salary has fallen below the market positioning.
Benefits To provide protection and Directors receive a combination of: The value of benefits may vary from The Policy will always apply as market competitive benefits Car allowance year to year depending on the cost stated, unless there are specific to aid recruitment and Private medical insurance to the Company.
individual circumstances why it retention of high performing Life assurance should not.
Ill health income protection Holiday and sick pay Professional advice in connection with their directorship Travel, subsistence and accommodation as necessary Occasional gifts, for example appropriate long service or leaving gifts.
Pension To help recruit and retain Participation into a defined contribution Directors receive a pension The Policy will apply as stated.
high performing Executive pension scheme or cash equivalent.
contribution or cash allowance of Directors 25% of salary.
To reward continued contribution to the business by enabling Executive Directors to build retirement benefits.
162 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 REMUNERATION POLICY Table 95 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Annual bonus To incentivise the delivery of All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the Minimum The Committee has the discretion to set stretching, near-term business Board at the beginning of the year and payments are bonus targets and measures each year targets and personal determined by the Committee after the year end, based payable is The outturns for the Group element of the performance objectives on performance against the targets set 0% of salary bonus plan are calculated formulaically and To reward near-term Maximum therefore the Committee has no discretion Specific measures and targets will be set each year, but outperformance relative to will always include a measure of Total Property Return bonus to adjust these, unless it feels it is necessary industry benchmarks potential is to adjust them down versus that of the market 150% of Specific measures and Other measures and targets will reflect the most critical The Committee does have the discretion to salary.
targets, for example business performance indicators for the year ahead, award appropriate bonus payments under successful planning and will be both specific and measurable.
Revenue the individual element maximum 20% of applications and asset Profit performance will always feature as a key measure base salary to reflect the performance and management initiatives, will contribution of an individual Director The achievement of on-target performance should provide future opportunity for result in a payment of 50% of the maximum opportunity Within the Policy, the Committee will retain the business and will increase i. e. 75% of salary flexibility including: the value of our properties in When to make awards and payments A small proportion no more than 20% of base salary of the short term How to determine the size of an award, a Directors bonus is based on the Committees Other KPIs, such as a payment, or when and how much of assessment of the achievement of pre-set personal development lettings targets, an award should be payable performance objectives are likely to have a significant Who receives an award or payment The structure of the plan incentivises outperformance impact on capital growth and Whether a departing Executive Director by ensuring that the threshold targets are stretching long-term revenue profit should receive a bonus and whether and Bonuses up to 50% of salary are paid in cash performance what proportion of awards should be paid at the time of leaving or at a subsequent Any amounts in excess of 50% of salary are deferred The ability to recognise date into shares for one year performance through variable Whether a departing Executive Director remuneration enables the Any amounts in excess of 100% of salary are deferred should be treated as a good leaver in Group to control its cost base into shares for two years respect of deferred bonus shares flexibly and react to events Deferred shares are potentially forfeitable if the How to deal with a change of control or and market circumstances Executive Director leaves prior to the share release date any other corporate event which may Deferral of a portion of annual Bonus payments are not pensionable require adjustments to awards bonuses into shares To determine that no bonus or a reduced Withholding and recovery provisions malus and encourages a longer-term bonus is payable where the performance clawback apply where any overpayment was made as focus aligned to shareholders of the business has been poor, a result of a material misstatement of the Companys interests and discourages notwithstanding the achievement of results or a performance condition, or where there has excessive risk taking.
been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this caused the overpayment.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Incentivises value creation The Committee may make an annual award of shares Normal and The outturns of the LTIP are calculated over the long-term in excess under the LTIP current formulaically and therefore the Committee of that created by general award limit has no discretion to adjust these, unless it Vesting is determined on the basis of the Groups market increases 300% of determines they should be adjusted down achievements against stretching performance targets salary.
Rewards execution of our over a fixed three year financial period and continued Within the Policy, the Committee will retain strategy and the long-term employment.
There is no re-testing flexibility including: outperformance of our When to make awards and payments.
The Committee reviews the measures, their relative competitors How to determine the size of an award, a weightings and targets prior to each award payment, or when and how much of an Aligns the long-term interests The measures selected are relative and directly aligned award should vest of Executive Directors and to the interests of shareholders.
50% of an award is Who receives an award or payment.
shareholders weighted to a measure of Total Property Return versus Whether a departing Executive Director Promotes retention.
the industry benchmark over a three year period and is treated as a good leaver for the 50% to Total Shareholder Return versus our listed purposes of the LTIP and whether and comparator group over a three year period what proportion of awards vest at the For each measure, no awards vest for performance time of leaving or at a subsequent below that of the benchmark.
Only a proportion, 20% vesting date will vest for matching the performance of the How to deal with a change of control or benchmark and significant outperformance is required any other corporate event which may for the maximum award to vest require adjustments to awards.
Awards will be satisfied by either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market and any use of newly issued shares will be subject to the dilution limits contained in the scheme rules or approved by shareholders Executive Directors are required to hold vested shares for a further two years including post-employment following the three year vesting period expiry Withholding and recovery provisions malus and clawback apply where any overpayment was made as a result of a material misstatement of the Companys results or a performance condition or where there has been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this caused the overpayment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional information Land Securities Annual Report 2016 163 REMUNERATION POLICY Table 95 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme To encourage all employees All employees, including Executive Directors, The maximum participation levels The Policy will apply as stated to make a long-term are entitled to participate in the SAYE Scheme may vary in line with HMRC limits.
Within the Policy, the Committee investment in the Companys operated by the Company in line with UK For 2015 16, participants may save will retain the flexibility to determine shares, through a savingsHMRC guidelines currently prevailing.
up to 500 per month for either whether a departing Executive related arrangement.
three or five years, using their Director should be treated as a accumulated savings at the end of good leaver.
the period to purchase shares at a 20% discount to the market price at the date of grant.
Share ownership guidelines To provide close alignment Executive Directors are expected to build up In exceptional circumstances, the between the longer-term and maintain shareholdings with a value set at Committee may extend the period interests of Executive a percentage of base salary: by which share ownership levels Directors and shareholders in are required to be achieved by up Chief Executive - 250% of salary terms of the Companys to two years.
Other Executive Directors - 200% of salary growth and performance.
These levels are normally required to be achieved within five years of appointment in order to qualify for future long-term incentive awards.
Deferred or unvested share awards not subject to performance conditions may count towards the ownership levels on a net of tax basis.
Non-executive Directors REMUNERATION POLICY Table 96 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base fee To aid the recruitment, retention and The Chairman is paid a single fee for all Board duties The current fees for Non-executive Directors are shown motivation of high performing Nonand the other Non-executive Directors receive a basic in section 3 of the Annual Report on Remuneration executive Directors Board fee, with supplementary fees payable for Non-executive Director fees are typically reviewed additional responsibilities To reflect the time commitment given annually but increased every two to three years by Non-executive Directors to the Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually by Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data for business.
the Board, having regard to independent advice and Non-executive Directors in companies of a similar size published surveys and complexity, and the time commitment required.
The Chairmans fee is also reviewed by the Board rather than the Remuneration Committee.
Additional fees To reflect the additional time Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually by The opportunity depends on which, if any, additional commitment required from Nonthe Board, having regard to independent advice and roles are assumed by an individual Director over the executive Directors in chairing various published surveys.
course of their tenure Board sub-committees or becoming the Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data for Boards Senior Independent Director.
Non-executive Directors in companies of a similar size and complexity, and the time commitment required.
Other incentives and benefits Non-executive Directors do not receive any other n a remuneration or benefits beyond the fees noted above.
Expenses in relation to Company business will be reimbursed If deemed necessary, and in the performance of their duties, Non-executive Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Share ownership To provide close alignment between The current share ownership guidelines require the longer-term interests of Directors Non-executive Directors to own shares with a value of and shareholders in terms of the 100% of annual fees within three years of appointment.
Directors Service Agreements and Letters balance of the awards lapsing.
The Committee For external and internal appointments, the of Appointment retains discretion to decide not to pro-rate Committee may agree that the Company will 3.1 Service Agreements Executive if it is inappropriate to do so in particular meet certain relocation expenses, on a one Directors circumstances.
For the avoidance of doubt, time basis, as appropriate.
Where an Executive The Executive Directors have Service if the termination of employment is not for one Director is recruited from overseas, flexibility is Agreements with the Company which normally of the specified reasons, and the Committee retained to provide benefits that take account continue until the Directors agreed retirement does not exercise its discretion to allow an of market practice in their country of residence.
date or such other date as the parties agree.
In award to vest, all outstanding awards The Company may offer a cash amount on line with Group policy, the Executive Directors automatically lapse.
recruitment, payment of which may be employment can be terminated at any time by staggered over a period of up to two years, to either party on giving 12 months prior written 3.3 Remuneration of newly appointed reflect the value of benefits a new recruit may notice.
Executive Directors have received from a former employer.
The Company allows Executive Directors The remuneration package for a new Shareholders will be informed of the to hold external non-executive directorships, externally appointed Executive Director would remuneration package and all additional subject to the prior approval of the Board, and be set in accordance with the terms of the payments to newly-appointed Executive to retain fees from these roles.
Companys approved remuneration policy in Directors at the time of their appointment.
force at the time of appointment.
At present, 3.2 Termination Provisions Executive the Policy on base salary will apply, but the 3.4 Chairman and Non-executive Directors Directors Committee has the flexibility to set the salary Letters of Appointment An Executive Directors Service Agreement of a new hire at a discount to the market level The Chairman and the Non-executive may be terminated without notice and without initially, with a series of planned increases Directors do not have Service Agreements further payment or compensation, except for implemented over the following few years with the Company.
Instead, each of them has a sums earned up to the date of termination, on subject to performance in the role to bring the Letter of Appointment which sets out the terms the occurrence of certain events such as gross salary to the desired positioning.
Only in very of their appointment, including the three misconduct.
The circumstances of the exceptional circumstances will the salary of a months prior written notice on which their termination taking into account the individuals newly appointed Executive Director exceed appointment can be terminated by either party performance and an individuals opportunity the market median benchmark for the role.
The dates of the current Letters of to mitigate losses are taken into account by The annual bonus would operate in Appointment are shown in the Annual Report the Committee when determining amounts accordance with the terms of the approved on Remuneration and these, together with the payable on termination, including pay in lieu of policy, albeit with the opportunity pro-rated Executive Directors Service Agreements, are notice.
The Groups normal approach is to stop for the period of employment in the first year.
available for inspection at the Companys or reduce compensatory payments to former Depending on the timing and responsibilities registered office.
Executive Directors when they receive of the appointment, it may be necessary to On appointment, the fee arrangements remuneration from other employment during set different performance measures and for a new Non-executive Director would be set the compensation period.
The Company does targets initially.
The LTIP would also operate in in accordance with the approved remuneration not make any arrangements that guarantee accordance with the Policy.
The maximum level policy in force at that time.
pensions with limited or no abatement on of variable pay that may be offered to a new severance or early retirement.
There are no Executive Director is therefore at an aggregate special provisions for Executive Directors with maximum of 450% of salary.
This limit does not regard to compensation in the event of loss include the value of any buy-out arrangements of office.
Any share-based entitlements granted In addition to the elements of the under the Companys share plans will be remuneration package covered by the Policy, determined on the basis of the relevant plan the Committee may buy out certain existing rules.
The default position is that any remuneration of an incoming Executive outstanding unvested awards automatically Director through the offer of either additional lapse on cessation of employment.
However, cash and or share-based elements on a oneunder the rules of the LTIP, in certain time basis or ongoing when it considers these prescribed circumstances, such as to be in the best interests of the Company.
redundancy, disability, retirement or other Any such payments would be based solely circumstances at the discretion of the on remuneration lost when leaving the former Committee taking into account the individuals employer and would take into account the performance and the reasons for their existing delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, departure, good leaver status can be options, time horizons and performance applied.
For example, if an Executives role has conditions.
effectively been made redundant, and there In the case of an internally appointed are no significant performance issues, the Executive Director, any variable pay element Committee is likely to look favourably on the awarded in respect of the prior role would be granting of some good leaver provisions.
paid out according to its terms, adjusted as However, if an Executive has resigned for a relevant to take into account the appointment.
similar role in a competitor organisation, then In addition, any other ongoing remuneration such provisions are extremely unlikely to apply.
obligations existing prior to appointment Where good leaver provisions in respect of would continue, provided that they are put share awards are deemed to be appropriate, to shareholders for approval at the earliest a participants awards should vest on a time opportunity.
pro-rata basis and subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria with the
