Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder, I am writing to you this year following a period of further growth and continued excellent performance by management during a period of significant change for the Company.
I also write on the back of the approval of a new Remuneration Policy which shareholders approved at a General Meeting of the Company held on 29 December 2016.
TRANSFORMATION AND GROWTH As I stated in my letter to you on 14 December 2016 setting out the new remuneration policy and the background to the changes made, NMC Health plc has continued its journey of extraordinary growth since our IPO in 2012.
During this time, our shareholders have seen a six times increase in market capitalisation.
More importantly, shareholders have also seen an increase in total shareholder return of over 600 per cent.
This value creation has been achieved through organic and acquisitive growth as well as significant improvements in operational efficiency across our business.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee recognise that management has achieved this growth and value accretion despite the challenges associated with building and opening new facilities, including consequential pre-breakeven operating periods during new facility ramp-up phases, and the commencement of integrating newly acquired businesses into the Group.
NEW DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AND INCREASES IN EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION In this period of exceptional growth, we are aware of having to play catch-up in terms of rewarding our key executives.
The Remuneration Committee believe that pay should be strongly linked to performance and had a number of ways in which to approach Executive remuneration and reward.
The Committee could have, as some companies do, pay significant salaries and increase remuneration potential through incentives in advance of the delivery of growth and increase in shareholder value.
This approach was not taken.
However, in light of the exceptional performance delivered by the executive team since the IPO and the current size and growth profile of the Company, the Committee felt that it was appropriate to review the remuneration arrangements during the course of 2016.
As set out in my letter on 14 December 2016, following the review, we proposed a number of changes to the remuneration policy, which were underpinned by three key principles: 1. alignment between executives and long-term shareholders: 2. focus on long-term value creation: and 3. transparency in our approach to remuneration.
In line with these principles, the Committee presented a new remuneration policy for shareholder approval at the General Meeting held on 29 December 2016, which included the following key changes for executive directors: increase in the short-term incentive opportunity in normal circumstances from 150% of salary to 200% of salary 250% of salary in exceptional circumstances : increase in the long-term incentive opportunity in normal circumstances from 150% of salary to 250% of salary 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances : and increase in the shareholding requirement from 200% of salary to 300% of salary.
Adjustments were also made to the base salaries for the Executive directors.
Our new remuneration policy was approved by just over 70% of the 92% of shareholders who voted on our proposals.
In discussions with shareholders and Institutional shareholder bodies, questions have rightly been raised in relation to the phasing of the increases we have made, given that the increases have been substantial.
Whilst the Committee understands the feedback that has been received, we believe that the arrangements going forward are appropriate for the following reasons: adjustments to salaries in the years following the IPO, during which our shareholders have seen a significant increase in profitability and shareholder value, still resulted in total remuneration levels that lagged competitive practice given the size and complexity of the Group: phasing the increases towards a competitive level of overall remuneration over an even longer period would not have been creating the correct environment to motivate and reward management: and a significantly larger proportion of the package going forward is to be delivered through incentive based remuneration, as shown in the following table, ensuring that the executives are only rewarded where strong operational performance and shareholder returns continue to be delivered.
Governance OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2016 2016 was another strong year for your Company.
This is seen in our TSR performance against the broader market, our direct competitors, as well as performance against our operational objectives.
We completed the acquisition of the Al Zahra hospital, continued the focus on ramping up of new facilities which has a direct impact on our profitability, at the same time as expanding our geographic presence.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec 12 12 12 12 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 14 15 15 15 15 16 16 16 16 NMC Health FTSE 250 TSR Bespoke Peer Group We have successfully delivered EBITDA of US$246.1m, a key focus for the Board and management team, with is particularly challenging given the Companys recent acquisitions.
Quality measures are also key to a healthcare business, and we are proud that our performance in 2016 for the Groups three speciality hospitals achieved excellent ratings against JCI performance measures.
The NMC Royal Hospital is the Groups newest and largest facility.
The operational ramp-up of this facility has exceeded our expectations in terms of occupancy levels in 2016.
Finally, the Group has also been careful to ensure efficiencies through the ramp-up of a central laboratory for laboratory testing requirements.
We are pleased to report that significant progress has been made here as well.
Given the very strong performance delivered in 2016, further details of which are provided in the business overview and financial review sections on pages 20 to 25 of this annual report, the Remuneration Committee has approved a bonus of 100% of the maximum opportunity 150% of salary for both Dr Shetty and Prasanth Manghat.
The actual 2016 STIP targets are considered commercially sensitive and therefore have not been disclosed in this report.
They will be disclosed when they are no longer considered commercially sensitive, which will be, at the earliest, in the Directors Remuneration Report following the year in which the bonus is paid.
In light of our commitment to increased transparency, we have, however, disclosed the targets and our performance against the targets for the 2015 STIP on page 70.
In respect of vesting under the 2014 LTIP, the first grant made to management under the LTIP, performance is assessed against three-year relative TSR and three-year compound annual growth in EPS.
Our TSR for this period was 281% against a peer group median of 47% with compound annual growth in EPS of 24.8%.
This strong level of performance will result in 100% of the 2014 LTIP awards vesting in October 2017.
LOOKING FORWARD The Committee is satisfied that we have, under the new Remuneration Policy, the right structure in place to reward the level of outstanding performance shareholders expect of the Company.
The Committee does not subscribe to a generic approach to remuneration and believe that our remuneration structure is appropriate for your Company.
We hope shareholders will support our approach to Executive remuneration and our desire to incentivise management now to produce stellar performance in the future.
In accordance with normal practice, our Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I very much hope you will support our Annual Remuneration Report.
I am, of course, available at any time to answer any questions you may have on the Companys approach to remuneration.
LORD CLANWILLIAM Chairman of the Remuneration Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 Directors Remuneration Policy INTRODUCTION This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into two sections.
The first section relates to the Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the Companys General Meeting held on 29 December 2016.
As this is the first Annual Report published since shareholder approval of the new policy table, we set out the policy in full below.
Explanatory notes used to explain aspects of the new policy, and the changes made from the previous Directors remuneration policy, can be found in the shareholder circular dated 14 December 2016 which can be viewed on the Companys investor relations website.
Secondly, the Annual Remuneration Report section details how our previous remuneration policy approved by shareholders in June 2014 was implemented in the year ended 31 December 2016, and what remuneration was paid to the Directors for that period.
The Annual Remuneration Report then sets out how we intend for the new policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Where the information is subject to audit in this Directors Remuneration Report this is identified in the relevant heading.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY In this remuneration policy section, we set out the remuneration policy for the Board which shareholders approved at the Companys General Meeting held on 29 December 2016.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary To attract and retain Salaries are normally reviewed There is no maximum Individual performance will management of the calibre annually, with increases taking salary level.
be considered when reviewing required to deliver the Groups effect following the review.
strategy without paying more Salaries may be reviewed Increases may be made above than is necessary.
at different intervals if this level at the Committees the Committee considers discretion to take account To reward executives for the it appropriate.
of individual circumstances, performance of their role.
for example: i An increase When setting base salaries, in scope responsibilities: consideration is given to: ii To reflect the individuals i Remuneration levels at development in the role e. g. companies of a comparable for a new appointment where size and complexity in the the salary may be increased FTSE, other similar UAE over time rather than set companies and other directly at the level of the international healthcare previous incumbent market : companies: ii Salary increases iii Alignment to market level.
elsewhere in the Group: iii Business and individual performance: iv The experience of the individual: v The external economic climate and market conditions: and vi Local market practice.
The Committee can also take into account the tax treatment of salaries for UAE based management in setting base salary levels.
58 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits To provide benefits that are Benefits are set at a level The cost of benefit provision None.
competitive relative to the which the Committee will depend on the cost to the employees local market.
considers is appropriate Company of providing taking into account: i Local individual items and the market practice: ii Practice individuals circumstances and at companies of a similar therefore there is no size and complexity, other maximum value.
UAE companies and other international healthcare companies: and iii The role and the individuals circumstances.
The Group provides a range of benefits which reflect typical benefits offered in the UAE including, but not limited to: i Employee family accommodation: ii Private Medical Insurance including family cover : iii Company provided transport facility iv Annual family return flight to home country: v 30 days holiday: vi End of service benefit: vii Reimbursement of reasonable personal accommodation and travel costs including any related tax liability.
In the event that an Executive is required to re-locate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide additional benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances on a one off or on-going basis.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Retirement benefits To provide a market Unlike its peer companies, Whilst the Committee has None.
competitive retirement the Company does not not set an absolute maximum benefits and fixed pay package currently operate any pension opportunity, the Committee to recruit and retain executive arrangements, but an end will determine the level of talent.
of service benefit, payable to benefit based on what is the employee when he leaves appropriate taking into the Group, is accrued annually account: i Local market in accordance with local practice: ii Practice at UAE laws.
companies of a comparable size and complexity, other We would continue to honour UAE companies and other any legacy arrangements international healthcare agreed with an individual companies: and iii The prior to them being promoted role and the individuals to an executive director role.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Short-Term Incentive Plan Bonus plan To provide a structure to Bonus measures and targets The maximum bonus The specific measures may attract, retain and motivate are set annually dependent on opportunity in respect of vary from year to year in order senior executives of the the deemed strategic priorities a financial year is 200% of to remain focussed on key calibre required to manage for that year.
In exceptional drivers of our strategy.
the business and to deliver circumstances, the Committee annual strategic objectives.
Performance is determined may increase the maximum Our business profitability is by the Committee after limit to 250% of salary.
closely aligned to operational To provide an incentive the year-end based on efficiencies across our facilities.
arrangement which is clearly performance against targets.
Normally, up to 50% As such performance is structured and transparent of the bonus pays-out measured against a range for senior executives The Committee has the for target performance.
of key financial, operational and shareholders.
discretion to amend the bonus strategic metrics and individual pay-out should the formulaic key performance indicators output not produce a result measured over one year.
which in the view of the Committee fairly reflects The actual performance overall performance or targets set are not disclosed individual contribution.
prospectively as they are commercially sensitive.
Any annual bonus achieved for a financial year is normally Where no longer commercially delivered one-third in cash and sensitive, the measures and two-thirds in deferred shares.
the outcomes against these Normally, 50% of the deferred measures will be disclosed element vests one year from retrospectively.
award and the rest vests two years from award subject to continued employment.
There are no further performance conditions or other conditions which will apply to any deferred shares awarded with the exception of continued employment.
The Committee shall have the discretion to determine that a different balance of cash and shares and or a different time horizon may apply.
Awards may be reduced, cancelled or have further conditions applied in certain circumstances prior to vesting.
These include but are not limited to, mis-statement of financial results, a material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Company.
60 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP To incentivise the delivery Awards vest based on The maximum award Performance measures are of long-term growth and performance measured opportunity in respect determined by the Committee returns for shareholders.
The of a financial year is and are chosen to be aligned Committee has the discretion 250% of base salary.
In with the long-term success To attract and retain to apply a longer performance exceptional circumstances, of the business.
executives of the calibre period or to introduce a the Committee may grant required to drive the holding period at the end awards of up to 300% of salary.
The Committee believes a long-term strategy.
measure linked to profitability Up to 25% of the award pays e. g. earnings per share and Performance targets are out for threshold performance.
a share price related measure set annually for each threeAwards vest on a straight-line e. g total shareholder return year cycle.
between threshold and remain appropriate.
The Committee has the Accordingly, LTIP awards discretion to amend the for 2017 will be based on: final level of vesting of awards Earnings Per Share 50% : if it does not consider that and it reflects the underlying Relative Total Shareholder performance of the Group.
Return measured against the 150 largest companies Awards are subject to malus within the FTSE 350 50%.
Awards may be reduced, cancelled or have The performance further conditions applied measures for the LTIP in certain circumstances focus management on the prior to vesting.
These delivery of strong profit growth include but are not limited through the profitability to mis-statement of results, measure and the delivery a material failure of risk of strong shareholder returns management or serious through the share price reputational damage related measure.
EPS has been chosen as the profitability performance measure for awards to be made in 2017 to ensure that pay-outs reflect the overall shareholder experience.
The performance measures selected by the Committee may change from time to time to reflect any change in the Group strategy.
The Committee has the discretion to: Change the overall weighting of the performance measures: Vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category.
The performance measures will be disclosed in the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Share option plan SOP To incentivise executive It is intended that The maximum award In the event that an award directors to increase the awards would only be opportunity in respect was to be granted under share price and deliver made under this plan in of a financial year is this plan in exceptional value for shareholders.
circumstances the Committee would determine appropriate Awards are granted in performance conditions at the form of market value that time.
Awards vest based on performance measured over a three year period.
Options may be exercised until the 10th anniversary of the date of grant.
Awards are subject to malus provisions.
These include but are not limited to mis-statement of results, a material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Company.
Shareholding guidelines To align the interests of the management team with shareholders, the company operates a shareholding guideline for Executive directors of 300% of salary.
Remuneration policy on recruitment Area Policy and operation Principles The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business.
At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The structure of the on-going remuneration package would normally include the components set out in the policy table for Executive directors.
In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
Base salary Set at a level to recruit the candidate with the required calibre, skills and experience to deliver the Groups strategy without paying more than is necessary.
Benefits and To be provided in line with normal policy.
pension In the event that an Executive is required to re-locate to undertake the role, the Committee may provide additional benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances on a one off or on-going basis.
Incentive awards Incentive awards would normally be made under the STIP, LTIP or SOP.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking into account the specific commercial circumstances, and subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below.
The key terms and rationale for any such component would be appropriately disclosed.
In line with our policy, the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded excluding any compensatory payments or awards referred to below is 550% of salary.
62 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Area Policy and operation Compensatory Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous awards employer as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining such a buy-out the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like for like basis to those forfeited, unless this was not considered appropriate in the particular circumstances.
To facilitate awards outlined above, the Committee may make awards under company incentive plans or other available structures as appropriate, including using listing rule 9.4.
2 for the purpose of making buy-out awards.
Non-executive The remuneration package for a newly appointed non-executive director would normally be in line with the directors structure set out in the policy table for Non-executive directors.
Remuneration for new hires may be paid in the form of cash or shares.
Treatment of incentives on cessation of employment STIP There is no automatic entitlement to a bonus.
In the case of ill-health, injury, disability, death, sale of the employing company or business from the Group or any other reason at the Committees discretion, executive directors may receive a bonus in respect of the financial year of cessation.
This payment will normally be pro-rated for time and subject to performance, however the Committee retains the discretion to review overall business and individual performance and determine that a different level of bonus payment is appropriate.
This payment may be paid in such proportions of cash or shares as the Committee considers appropriate.
In other circumstances the Committee may determine that a bonus payment may be due to reflect performance and contribution to the point of cessation.
Unvested In the case of ill-health, injury, disability, death, sale of the employing company or business from the Group deferred STIP or any other reason at the Committee discretion, unvested awards would normally continue to vest at the awards end of the normal deferral period.
The Committee may determine, in appropriate circumstances that awards should vest at cessation of employment.
In other circumstances, awards would normally lapse.
LTIP In the case of ill-health, injury, disability, death, sale of the employing company or business from the Group or any other reason at the Committees discretion, awards may vest at a level determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met and, unless the Committee determine otherwise, the time elapsed since grant.
Awards will normally carry on to the normal vesting date except in the case of death where awards may vest immediately.
The Committee may determine that awards should vest at cessation of employment.
Awards in the form of nil cost options may be exercised for a period of 6 months from vesting 12 months in the cases of death.
Participants have 6 months from cessation to exercise vested awards 12 months in the case of death.
The Committee may allow alternative exercise windows if it considers it appropriate.
SOP In the case of ill-health, injury, disability, death, sale of the employing company or business from the Group or any other reason at the Committees discretion, options may vest at a level determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the time elapsed since grant.
Options vesting will normally carry on to the normal vesting date except in the case of death where awards may vest immediately.
Options may be exercised for a period of 6 months from vesting 12 months in the case of death.
In other circumstances, unvested awards would normally lapse.
Vested options may be exercised for 6 months from cessation.
Other information The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Treatment on a change of control On a change of control, awards under the LTIP and SOP would normally vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which any performance conditions are satisfied at the date of the event, the time that has elapsed since the grant of an award and any other factors it considers appropriate.
The executive directors may exchange their awards over Company shares for awards in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the offer allow this.
Any deferred STIP shares will normally vest in full upon a change of control.
In the event of a winding-up of the Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which in the opinion of the Committee may affect the current or future share price, the Committee may allow LTIP, SOP and any deferred STIP awards to vest on the same basis as set out above.
Non-Executive Director Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To provide an The remuneration of non-executive directors is approved The maximum level of non-executive appropriate reward to by the executive directors following recommendations director remuneration is set out in the attract and retain and discussions with the Chairman of the Company Companys articles of association.
and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, may be amended from time to time as appropriate.
Fees are structured as follows: Fees are set at a level which reflect the The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive commitment and contribution that is directors are paid a basic fee.
expected from the Chairman and nonAdditional fees are also paid for additional executive directors and that are appropriately responsibilities including the Senior Independent positioned against comparable roles in Director and Chairmanship of a Committee.
companies of a similar size and complexity.
Intercontinental travel allowances are paid, where such travel is required.
Fee levels are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report for the relevant Fees will be paid in an appropriate mix of cash financial year.
Additional fees may be payable to nonNon-executive directors are also reimbursed for executive directors from time to time for travel and reasonable personal expenses including additional board responsibilities.
Additional any related tax liability on such expenses.
fees may also be paid where the time commitment in a particular year was Non-executive directors are eligible to receive annual significantly more than anticipated.
No other benefits are currently provided.
Other ad hoc benefits may be provided in the future if this was considered appropriate.
64 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2016 Details of the members of the Committee during the 2016 financial year, and its role and responsibility within the Groups Board and governance structure, is set out on page 49 of the Governance report.
Principal matters considered in 2016 The Committee met formally five times during a busy year.
Principal items discussed by the Committee included: Reviewed and approved the targets for incentive awards to be made in the year: A tender process in relation to the Committees independent external adviser.
This process resulted in a number of meetings and discussions leading to the decision set out below: A review and discussion in relation to the new Directors Remuneration policy which was put to, and approved by, shareholders on 29 December 2016: and The review and setting of base salaries and maximum share plan incentive levels that will operate for Executive Directors in 2017.
Support and External Advice The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers when discussing and setting Executive Director and Senior Management salary levels.
Deloitte was appointed by the Remuneration Committee and acted as advisors to the Company since 2012.
During the year, the Committee undertook a tender process with regards to the appointment of this adviser.
The objective of the tender for this position was to ensure that, in advance of the renewal of the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee was receiving advice and to have a new remuneration policy which is appropriate to the Groups changing circumstances and sufficient for the Groups continuing growth strategy in the coming years.
In addition to Deloitte re-tendering for the role, represented by a new partner at the firm, the Committee also received presentations and formal tender submissions from two other firms.
In addition to an initial presentation, a formal tender process was conducted.
In addition to outlining how they would work with the committee on an ongoing basis and a discussion on potential remuneration structures that the Group could employ, work undertaken for similar structured organisations and potential fee levels of each firm were considered as part of the presentation and tender process.
Following extensive discussions, it was agreed that Deloitte would be re-appointed as the Committees advisers on remuneration.
Deloitte then assisted the Committee in finalising the new remuneration policy approved by shareholders on 29 December 2017, setting new base salary and maximum incentive levels for Executive Directors for 2017.
The Committee have reviewed and considered Deloittes independence, and consider them to be independent advisers to the committee notwithstanding that Deloitte, as an international firm, provide the following services to the group: Some tax advisory services to the Group in Spain: Internal Auditors to our IVF businesses, Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF: and transaction services and accounting advice to the Group in the UAE, both before and after some of the Groups acquisitions.
It was noted that none of this advice has related to remuneration matters in the Group, all teams providing these services are based in countries other than the UK where the remuneration advisory team are based and none of these teams have any connection with the engagement partner and team advising the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte during the year has been objective and independent and that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with NMC that might impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Deloitte are signatories to the remuneration consultants group code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee has direct access to Deloitte as and when required.
The Group Company Secretary liaises with Deloitte where necessary to ensure that all Committee requests and decisions are dealt with and implemented, but does so under the guidance of the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Deloitte attend meetings of the Committee as required.
Deloitte received fees of 31,000 charged on a time plus expenses basis for advice received during the year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2016 CONTINUED Results of voting on Remuneration matters at General Meetings of the Company The following summarises voting at the two General Meetings in 2016 at which resolutions relating to Directors remuneration were put to shareholders: Number of Meeting Date Resolution Resolution type For Against votes withheld 3 June 2016 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report Advisory 69.38% 30.62% 280,673 To approve the New Directors Remuneration 29 December 2016 Policy Binding 70.24% 29.76% 618 To approve Amendment to LTIP rules N A 74.56% 25.44% 618 The Committee takes note of the views of shareholders when reviewing Directors remuneration and appreciates that some shareholders have a differing view of the correct approach to incentivise management.
Whilst the Committee understands that a number of shareholders were not supportive of the proposed changes to remuneration made in 2016, the Committee believes that the arrangements going forward are appropriate for the following reasons: adjustments to salaries in the years following the IPO, during which our shareholders have seen a significant increase in profitability and shareholder value, still resulted in total remuneration levels that lagged competitive practice given the size and complexity of the Group: phasing the increases towards a competitive level of overall remuneration over an even longer period would not have been creating the correct environment to motivate and reward management: and a significant proportion of the package going forward is to be delivered through incentive based remuneration, ensuring that the executives are only rewarded where strong operational performance and shareholder returns continue to be delivered.
As always, the Committee is appreciative of the support which shareholders have given in relation to Directors remuneration matters.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The remuneration philosophy is the same throughout NMC that individuals should be remunerated based on their role, responsibilities, experiences and market practice.
NMC has a variety of different roles from senior executives, to doctors and nurses and to administrators and support staff, and therefore remuneration levels and structures vary to reflect the different requirements, expectations and locations of these roles.
The Committee does consider that it is important, however, that Executive Directors and senior executives as a group are remunerated in a similar way to ensure that they are incentivised to collectively deliver the Groups strategy and create long term value for shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior management therefore all participated in the STIP and LTIP arrangements in 2016.
Shareholder views and consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Communication with our Shareholders The Committee is available to discuss remuneration matters concerning shareholders at any time and management and the Chairman of the Committee have discussed remuneration changes with shareholders and institutional bodies during the year.
Consideration of pay and conditions of employees The Committee considers the correlation between Executive Director remuneration and that of Senior Management, as well as pay levels externally for similar roles, when determining individual remuneration levels.
However, given the Groups wide geographic reach in relation to both its business interests and shareholders, and the significant corporate and public company responsibilities which are not reflected in roles in the rest of the Group, the Committee do not feel that Executive Director and Senior Management remuneration needs to be aligned with other remuneration within the business.
The Committee did not consult with employees when setting Executive Director pay.
66 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance 2016 REMUNERATION THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT This section outlines how the remuneration policy was applied in 2016, together with the outcomes for actual remuneration paid in relation to the financial year under review.
This is shown in two parts Remuneration paid to Executive Directors and a separate section in relation to Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Director Remuneration 2016 Remuneration paid in 2016 single pay figure The table below sets out the remuneration paid to or received by each Executive Director of the Company who served during the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
There were no changes to base salaries during the 2016 financial year.
Benefits There was no change to the structure of benefits available to the Executive Directors during the year.
The Benefits paid included the following items: Provision of family Private medical Life insurance Annual family return flights accommodation insurance cover to home country $000 $000 $000 $000 Executive Director 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Dr B R Shetty 168.7 160.6 2.2 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.5 2.5 Prasanth Manghat 0.0 0.0 4.4 4.4 0.0 0.6 15.2 15.2 Outcome of 2016 STIP The Group once again made significant progress during the year.
In addition to the continued execution of the Groups strategic plan through the opening and ramp-up of new facilities, the Group continued its acquisition program during 2016.
In setting targets for the 2016 STIP, the Committee considered the key focus required of management for the financial year, which of course continued to be required alongside the significant proportion of time and commitment of the Executive Directors and Senior Management in relation to the acquisition program including the acquisition of Al Zahra hospital in Sharjah as announced in December 2016, which is not directly included as a target for the STIP.
In addition to EBITDA achievement, one of the primary targets set was in relation to the ramp-up of NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City.
Although this is not directly a financial target, an accelerated ramp-up of new facilities provides better than expected EBITDA performance in the medium term.
In relation to NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, which is the Groups largest hospital, a focus on an accelerated ramp-up provides strong financial benefits to the Group in the medium term.
Other targets include the expansion into new geographies, a link to the Groups expansion program and operational targets relating to quality and efficiency.
The outcome of each target for the 2016 STIP is shown in the table below.
The Executive Vice Chairman and CEO and the Deputy CEO each received 150% of base salary as their annual bonus in respect of the 2016 financial year.
As stated in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report, the way in which the 2016 STIP Award is delivered to the executive team changed from previous years, with a lower percentage of cash being delivered on granting of an award.
For the 2016 STIP, one-third of the award achieved is being paid in cash with two-thirds delivered in the form of a deferred share award, which vests equally after periods of one year and two years.
The actual financial performance targets used for the determination of the 2016 STIP have not been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report as the Board deems that the disclosure of the targets could prejudice the Groups business.
The financial targets will be disclosed as soon as they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive, which will be, at the earliest, in the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year following the year in which the bonus is paid.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued 2016 REMUNERATION THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT CONTINUED Outcome of 2016 STIP continued Weighting Executive Outcome Vice percentage Purpose and link to Chairman of Measure remuneration strategy Description of measure Target and performance and CEO Deputy CEO maximum EBITDA Optimize cost Achieve minimum The maintenance of good 25% 25% 100% of services levels of EBITDA set by levels of EBITDA are also the Committee including a key focus for the Board EBITDA from all Group and the management businesses as at 1 January team during a continuing 2016 plus Fakih IVF.
period of significant acquisitive growth.
This target recognises that Business operations minimum levels of EBITDA collectively performed must be achieved for the above expectation, financial year, ensuring that including a better than new acquisitions in FY2015 expected performance and Q1, 2016 perform well by NMC Royal Hospital and that the new facilities following its opening opened by the Company, for inpatient services.
including NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, This strong performance, ramp-up well after opening.
detailed in the Business overview and Financial Additionally, a targeted review sections on pages level of EBITDA must be 20 to 25 of this annual achieved before any STIP report, with EBITDA of entitlement is earned US$246.1m, resulted in a in relation to FY2016.
maximum achievement level for this measure being achieved.
JCI Strengthen and NMC seeks to achieve The Groups three Specialty 25% 100% Accreditation maintain NMCs a high quality standard Hospitals once again corporate image in each of its facilities.
achieved excellent quality Quality standards are performance against set seen as a key component JCI performance measures.
in relation to customer service and monitoring The Board has determined of such standards a key that performance against clinical risk mitigation the JCI metrics is factor and component commercially sensitive, of the Groups internal and will continue to be so, control mechanism.
and as such the detailed performance against this Achievement of set targets measure is not disclosed.
in relation to the monitoring However, the Board can of those clinical and quality confirm that the stretch indicators which are target was exceeded across required to reach a certain all individual facilities.
standard under the Joint Commission International accreditations for the Groups three Specialty Hospitals having JCI accreditation for the whole of 2016.
68 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Weighting Executive Outcome Vice percentage Purpose and link to Chairman of Measure remuneration strategy Description of measure Target and performance and CEO Deputy CEO maximum Expansion Strategic growth Part of the Strategic The Group continued 25% 25% 100% into new growth plan agreed execution of its strategic geographies by the Board includes growth plan, including the expansion of the plans to widen the Groups Healthcare division into geographic reach outside new geographic locations, the previous focus on principally other GCC the UAE.
countries outside of the UAE.
The targets related to this geographic expansion, The Remuneration with acquisitions in Committee set Saudi Arabia, Europe targets related to this and South America geographic expansion.
announced in the year, were met at maximum achievement level.
Ramp-up of New facility NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa The initial ramp-up of 25% 25% 100% NMC Royal performance and City, is the Groups newest this facility following Hospital, EBITDA improvement and largest facility, and will the commencement of Khalifa City be a regional flagship hub inpatient services in for the Groups Healthcare 2016, has exceeded division.
By the end has set targets relating to of the 2016 financial year, the number of operational the number of beds, and beds in this facility, and occupancy of those beds, average occupancy of exceeded the Committees those beds, by the end set target for maximum of 2016 as this will have achievement required for a direct impact on both this measure.
future revenue and EBITDA levels for the Group.
Establishment Group efficiencies This measure related to Central Laboratories have 25% 100% of Central plans to open a centralised been set up in the key hubs Laboratory laboratory structure within across the Companys key the Groups Healthcare markets in the UAE, with division.
This target was these hubs servicing other set to ensure as many Group operating facilities facilities as possible are in those markets.
using the central laboratory for their laboratory testing requirements in the short term.
This target specifically ensures that, during this period of significant acquisitive growth, there is a continuing focus on efficiencies within the Healthcare division and assists in maintaining high laboratory standards.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued 2016 REMUNERATION THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT CONTINUED Outcome of 2015 STIP Consistent with one of our core principles, transparency, we have provided detailed disclosure against our 2015 performance for the first time below, where such measures are not held to be commercially sensitive.
Weighting Executive Vice Chairman and Measure CEO Deputy CEO Description of 2015 Measures, Target and Performance Healthcare revenues 33.3% 20% Achievement of a minimum level of healthcare revenues set by the Committee including revenues from existing facilities, Clinica Eugin and new facilities opened in 2014.
Threshold US$400m Stretch US$450m Revenues of US$473.8m were achieved, in excess of the stretch target.
Healthcare EBITDA 33.3% 35% Achievement of minimum levels of EBITDA set by the Committee target and gateway including EBITDA from existing facilities, Clinica Eugin and new facilities hurdle opened in 2014.
Additionally, this targeted level of EBITDA had to be achieved before any STIP entitlement could be earned in relation to FY2015.
EBITDA Threshold US$100m Stretch US$110m EBITDA of US$127.4m was achieved, in excess of the stretch target.
JCI Accreditation 33.3% The Board has determined that performance against the JCI metrics is commercially sensitive, and will continue to be so, and as such the detailed performance against this measure is not disclosed.
However, the Board can confirm that the stretch target was exceeded across all individual facilities.
Revenue per Patient 10% Revenue per patient is a principal financial driver for the Group.
The Committee set a stretch target of US$121 revenue per patient.
Actual performance was US$121.1 in revenue per patient.
This target was therefore met at the stretch level.
Patient Occupancy 10% Utilisation of assets is key to performance and therefore achieving efficient Levels patient occupancy levels represents a continuing target for the business.
Target performance was set at 74% or greater with a stretch target of 75% or greater.
This target excludes any new facilities opened in 2014 as they were considered to be in rampup phase with expected abnormally low occupancy levels.
Occupancy achieved under this measure was 76% which the Committee determined fulfilled the target at the stretch level.
Organisational 15% Specific targeted milestones set by the Committee for capital and Capability technology enablement programs to be met.
This Committee determined that this measure was met at its stretch level in light of the Groups flagship NMC Royal Hospital Khalifa City opening in 2015, and given the excellent rampup performance of other new facilities opened.
Human Capital 10% Targets set by the Committee in relation to the enhancement of succession planning capabilities within the Group given the Companys growth and acquisition plans for 2015.
The Committee wanted to ensure that up to five key management positions had succession plans in place during 2015 and this was achieved.
70 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Long Term Incentive Plan Performance in relation to LTIP Awards made in 2014 Awards for Executive Directors under the LTIP were granted for the first time in 2014 and therefore, to date, no LTIP grants have yet reached their 3 year vesting point.
However, the performance period in relation to the 2014 LTIP award being the three financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016 has now ended, and therefore the Committee is in a position to confirm the level of vesting which will apply when the third anniversary of the date of grant of the award is reached on 29 October 2017.
50% of the award was subject to an Earnings Per Share EPS growth performance condition, whilst the remaining 50% of the award was based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return relative to a bespoke peer group.
Threshold Maximum Measure 25% vesting 100% vesting Actual performance Level of vesting 1 Earnings Per Share 6% p. a. growth 15% p. a. growth 24.84% p. a. growth 100% 2,3 Total Shareholder Return Median Upper quartile 280.95% 100th percentile 100% 1 Straight line vesting between threshold and maximum.
2 Pro-rata vesting between median and lower quartile on a ranking basis.
3 Peer group Korian Medica France : Al Noor Hospitals GP UK : Spire Healthcare GP UK : Raffles Medical GP Singapore : Banmedica Chile : Synergy Health UK : KPJ Healthcare Malaysia : NIB Holdings Australia Al-Maidan DNL.
Given the strong level of relative TSR and EPS performance delivered over the three-year performance period, the Committee determined that 100% of the awards will vest on 29 October 2017.
As the share price at the date of vesting was not known at the date of publication of this report, no value has been included within the single figure table.
This will be included in the following years report, based on the number of shares that vested multiplied by the average share price over the quarter ending 31 December 2016, which is 14.23.
Awards made in 2016 During 2016, LTIP grants were made to the Executive Directors at 150% of base salary, in line with our approved Policy applying during the 2016 financial year.
Performance targets The following performance targets were used in relation to all LTIP awards granted in 2016.
Companys Earnings per Share EPS growth This measures the Companys annual compound growth in EPS and represents 50% of the total award.
The table below sets out the EPS targets for the 2016 award and the corresponding level of vesting: Annual compound growth in EPS over the three-year Performance Period Vesting percentage of target 15% or more 100% Between 6% and 15% On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% 6% 25% Less than 6% 0% Total Shareholder Return TSR growth This measures the Companys TSR compared against a comparator group of companies and represents 50% of the total award.
The table below sets out the TSR targets for the 2016 award and the corresponding level of vesting: Companys TSR over three-year performance period compared to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Vesting percentage of target Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 25% and 100% on a ranking basis Median 25% Below Median 0% Pension contributions There were no pension contributions in 2015.
During 2016, the Committee considered its current policy not to provide executive directors with a pension arrangement.
The Committee considered that a one-off payment of 20% of salary for 2016 in lieu of pension contributions was appropriate to compensate for a lack of an ongoing pension arrangement.
The Committee considered this appropriate in light of the normal practice of other UK listed companies of comparable size and scope.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued 2016 REMUNERATION THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT CONTINUED Non-Executive Director Remuneration 2016 Remuneration paid in 2016 single pay figure The fee paid in cash to each Non-Executive Director during the year ended 31 December 2016 is set out in the following table: 1 FY2016 FY2015 Director Position 000 000 H. J.
Mark Tompkins Independent Non-Executive Chairman 215 215.0 Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director 95 85.0 Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director 95 85.0 Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 100 100.0 Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 90 85.0 Salma Hareb Independent Non-Executive Director 95 85.0 Keyur Nagori Non-Executive Director 90 85.0 Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director 90 85.0 Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director 100 85.0 1 As reported in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report, given the extension of the Companys growth strategy in 2015 and the complexity of business challenges faced during the year, there was a significant increase in the time commitment required from our Non-Executive Directors.
To reflect this increase in the provision of services to the Group, each of the Non-Executive Directors received additional payments to reflect the time commitment required.
These amounts are included in the FY2015 Remuneration in the table above.
None of the NonExecutive directors received any benefits, pension, STIP or LTIP entitlements or payments during FY2015 and FY2016.
In 2016, the Executive Directors decided to re-base the fees of the Non-Executive Directors to take account of the continuing increase in commitment encountered in 2016 and expected in future financial years.
Therefore, with effective from 1 January 2016, the annual fees of the Non-Executive Directors have been structured as follows: Base fees: Chairman 200k Senior Independent Director 85k Non-Executive Director 75k An additional fee of 5k per annum is paid to the Chair of each board committee.
A fee of 5k is paid to each Non-Executive Director who attends meetings of the Board, in person, in a country which is not their primary residence.
The above fee structure is reflected in the fees paid to each NED during 2016.
Payments to past directors There were no payments made to past directors during the 2016 financial year.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments made for loss of office to past directors during the 2016 financial year.
2017 REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION IN 2017 This section summarises the expected implementation of the Companys new remuneration policy in 2017.
The approach to Executive Director Remuneration which the Remuneration Committee intends to take for 2017 was set out in the circular to shareholders dated 14 December 2016, setting out details of the Companys new Remuneration Policy.
This is summarised below: Base salaries for 2017 Annual base salaries payable with effect from 1 January 2017 are as follows: Executive Vice Chairman and CEO AED 4.485m Deputy CEO AED 3.795m Benefits There is no intended change to the structure of benefits in 2017 which will be paid in line with the arrangements in place for the 2016 financial year.
72 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance Operation of the STIP for 2016 In line with the structure set out in the Companys Directors Remuneration policy approved by shareholders on 29 December 2016, the maximum STIP opportunity for the Executive Directors in 2017 will be 200% of base salary.
The way in which any award from the 2017 STIP will be delivered will be one-third of any STIP award being made in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares, half of which will vest one year after any award is made and the other half two years after any award.
The performance targets that will apply for the 2017 financial year have been set after considering the Groups priorities for the year.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the specific targets are commercially sensitive at this stage as they could disclose details of budgeting and strategy for 2017 to the Companys competitors.
The Remuneration Committee will disclose details in respect of the targets when it is satisfied that these are no longer commercially sensitive.
2017 STIP Targets Targets for the 2017 STIP are outlined below.
The specific targets are considered commercially sensitive.
We will, however, disclose the 2017 target and performance against target for measures the Board consider to be no longer commercially sensitive.
This is anticipated to be included in the 2018 annual report.
Weighting for Executive Directors % of STIP Measure Purpose and link to remuneration strategy Opportunity EBITDA The maintenance of healthy levels of EBITDA will remain a key focus for the Board and 25% the management team in 2017.
Maintaining a focus on profitability as the Company continues its organic and acquisitive growth has always been a key consideration for the Company and as such EBITDA targets will be included in the 2017 STIP.
EBITDA Margin Group EBITDA margin is a key metric in the Healthcare sector.
The Company is committed 25% to delivering a competitive margin for shareholders and as such this metric is being introduced into the STIP.
JCI Accreditation Performance against the JCI quality measures represent a key market indicator in 25% relation to clinical quality performance and has a demonstrable link to value creation.
As such this measure will continue to be included in the STIP for 2017.
Facility Operational efficiency of our key facilities drives longer-term value creation.
This metric 25% Efficiency will include indicators of the efficiency and ramp up of the NMC Royal Hospital and the Al Zahra Hospital.
Operation of the LTIP for 2017 In line with the structure set out in the Companys Directors Remuneration policy approved by shareholders on 29 December 2016, the LTIP award levels for the Executive Directors in respect of 2017 were granted at a level of 250% of base salary.
The minimum vesting requirement under the EPS condition was increased to 8% compound annual growth while the comparator group for the TSR component was changed to the largest 150 companies on the London Stock Exchange.
The net effect of these changes will ensure more challenging performance requirements for vesting.
The performance targets that apply for awards made under the plan in the 2017 financial year are as follows: Percentage Weighting for Purpose and link relevant Measure to remuneration strategy Performance measure Target individuals Total shareholder return To incentivise management TSR growth compared 25% of this element 50% TSR to deliver long term returns to a comparator group of the award will vest for to shareholders.
performance equal to the median of the comparator The comparator group are group with 100% vesting for the companies making up upper quartile performance the 150 largest companies or better.
within the London Stock Exchange FTSE350 Index Vesting is on a straight line excluding investment basis between these points.
Earnings per share EPS To incentivise management Annual compound growth 25% of this element of the 50% to deliver bottom line in EPS between the base award vests for compound earnings growth.
year i. e. 2016 and the end EPS growth of 8% per of the performance period.
annum with 100% vesting for EPS growth of 15% per annum.
Vesting is on a straight line basis between these points.
Awards under the LTIP for 2017 and beyond will be subject to a clawback provision, on top of the existing malus provision.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued 2017 REMUNERATION CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION IN 2017 The fees payable to the non-executive directors effective as at 1 January 2017 are as follows: 000 Chairman 210 Senior Independent Director 85 Non-executive director 75 Chairman of a Board Committee 10 Additional fees are payable for attendance at Board meetings outside the country of residence for each Board member.
Details of the remuneration paid to each of the non-executive directors who served during the year are included in the table on page 72.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or incentive plan or other form or performance-related remuneration.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Executive Directors service agreement and employment contracts Each of the following served as Executive Directors for all of the 2016 financial year and were subject to service agreements entered into with NMC Healthcare LLC, one of the Companys subsidiaries.
Date of agreement Dr B R Shetty 19 March 2012 Prasanth Manghat 1 May 2011 Dr B R Shetty is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to a service agreement dated 19 March 2012.
The service agreement provides for an indefinite term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the service agreement.
The service agreement provided that, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, the service agreement can only be terminated on twelve months prior written notice given by either Dr B R Shetty or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Mr Prasanth Manghat is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to an employment contract dated 1 May 2011.
The contract provides for a renewable two year term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The Contract provides that, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, the contract can be terminated on one months prior written notice given by either Prasanth Manghat or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Copies of the Service Agreement for Dr B R Shetty and employment contract for Mr Prasanth Manghat are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, and are available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
For future executives the Committee policy is that notice periods will not exceed 12 months.
There are no matters for which the Company requires approval of shareholders for the purposes of Chapter 4A of Part 10 of the Companies Act 2006. Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is stated for an initial term until the next annual general meeting of the Company at which, and at subsequent annual general meetings, they need to submit themselves for re-election if they so wish.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors have a minimum time commitment that they need to give to the Company in any year.
The letters of appointment for each Non-Executive Director are summarised below: Company and Director Director Position Date of appointment notice period H. J.
Mark Tompkins Non-Executive Chairman 7 March 2012 3 months Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director 24 February 2014 3 months Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent Director 27 June 2013 3 months Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 7 March 2012 3 months Salma Hareb Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months Keyur Nagori Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director 1 January 2015 3 months Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months There is no compensation payable upon the early termination of a Non-Executive Directors appointment.
Copies of the above Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, and available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
74 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Directors shareholdings and interests The table below shows details of the Directors holdings of Ordinary Shares and interests in the Company as at 1 January 2016 and at 31 December 2016.
Ordinary shares of 10p each Share options over Ordinary shares of 10p each Director 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 H. J.
Mark Tompkins note 1 25,083 25,083 Dr B. R. Shetty note 2 47,749,250 51,756,893 259,833 444,671 Prasanth Manghat 8,308 8,308 139,859 217,130 Dr Ayesha Abdullah Abdulrahman Basaddiq Jonathan Bomford 12,000 17,000 Lord Clanwilliam Salma Hareb Keyur Nagori Binay Shetty 6,842 6,842 21,464 21,464 Dr Nandini Tandon Notes: 1.
The interests of Mr H J Mark Tompkins in relation to the ordinary shares of the Company include the shares held in the name of his wife and by a family trust of which he is considered a beneficiary.
Mr Tompkins sold 1,000 Ordinary shares of the Company on 12 January 2017.
The interests in relation to both ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares of the Company for Dr B. R. Shetty include the shares and options in the name of his wife, Dr C R Shetty.
The interests over shares for Dr B. R. Shetty further changed on 26 January 2017, with the award of nil-cost options under the terms of the Companys LTIP to Dr B. R. Shetty and Dr C. R. Shetty totalling 230,358 options.
None of the Directors received any loans, advances or other form of credit granted by the Company, nor were any guarantees of any kind provided by the Company on behalf of any Directors during the year ended 31 December 2016.
Except as stated above, none of the Directors who held office during the year held any Ordinary Shares or options over Ordinary Shares of the Company during the year.
Except as stated in the notes to the table above, there have been no changes in the above interests between 31 December 2016 and the date of this Directors Remuneration Report.
Executive directors are expected to build a shareholding of 300% of base salary increased from 200% as part of the new Directors Remuneration policy approved by shareholders on 29 December 2016 over a 5-year period.
The first share incentive awards granted to the Executive Directors do not vest until October 2017.
The Executive Vice Chairman & CEO is a significant shareholder in the Company and therefore already meets this shareholding requirement.
The Deputy CEO holds shares valued at 127.8k based on the share price at 31 December 2016.
These have a value of c. 23.2% of salary based on salary at 31 December 2016.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS SUBJECT TO AUDIT CONTINUED Directors interests in shares The following tables show details of the share awards made to Executive Directors that have not yet vested.
Long Term Incentive Plan Market Price % vesting for Performance at Date of Exercise Shares Face value of minimum Type of interest period ending Award Date Award price Awarded award performance Vesting Date Dr B R LTIP award 31 December 29 October 494.9p 0p 50,923 25% of 29 October 252,018 Shetty subject to 2016 2014 award 2017 performance Dr B R LTIP award 31 December 25 February 520p 0p 57,692 300,000 25% of 25 February Shetty subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 performance Dr B R LTIP award 31 December 8 September 760.5p 0p 26,298 25% of 8 September 200,000 Shetty subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 performance Dr B R LTIP award 31 December 15 March 967.5p 0p 100,775 975,000 25% of 15 March Shetty subject to 2018 2016 award 2019 performance Dr B R LTIP award 31 December 26 January 1630.0p 0p 148,250 25% of 26 January 2,416,487 Shetty subject to 2019 2017 award 2020 performance Mr LTIP award 31 December 29 October 494.9p 0p 40,738 202,834 25% of 29 October Prasanth subject to 2016 2014 award 2017 Manghat performance Mr LTIP award 31 December 25 February 520p 0p 50,000 25% of 25 February 260,000 Prasanth subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 Manghat performance Mr LTIP award 31 December 8 September 760.5p 0p 23,011 175,000 25% of 8 September Prasanth subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 Manghat performance Mr LTIP award 31 December 15 March 967.5p 0p 85,271 25% of 15 March 825,000 Prasanth subject to 2018 2016 award 2019 Manghat performance Mr LTIP award 31 December 26 January 1630.0p 0p 125,442 2,044,720 25% of 26 January Prasanth subject to 2019 2017 award 2020 Manghat performance Details of the performance measures attached to the LTIP awards, and performance to date against these measures, are set out on page 71.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Financial Year Share Award Market Price made in at Date of Exercise Shares Face value of Type of interest respect of Award Date Award price Awarded award Vesting Date Dr B R Shetty Deferred shares subject 2013 29 October 494.9p 0p 15,510 76,759 29 October to continued employment 2014 2017 Dr B R Shetty Deferred shares subject 2014 25 February 520.0p 0p 17,470 25 February 90,844 to continued employment 2015 2018 Dr B R Shetty Deferred shares subject 2015 15 March 967.5p 0p 17,226 166,662 15 March to continued employment 2016 2019 Mr Prasanth Deferred shares subject 2013 29 October 494.9p 0p 12,408 29 October 61,407 Manghat to continued employment 2014 2017 Mr Prasanth Deferred shares subject 2014 25 February 520p 0p 13,702 71,250 25 February Manghat to continued employment 2015 2018 Mr Prasanth Deferred shares subject 2015 15 March 967.5p 0p 14,987 15 March 145,000 Manghat to continued employment 2016 2019 Mr Binay Deferred shares subject 2013 29 October 494.9p 0p 9,926 29 October 49,123 Shetty to continued employment 2014 2017 No options vested or were exercised during the year.
76 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Governance PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND HISTORIC EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN & CEO REMUNERATION OUTCOMES The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return performance of NMC Health plc shares against the FTSE 250.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar Jun Sept Dec 12 12 12 12 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 14 15 15 15 15 16 16 16 16 NMC Health FTSE 250 TSR Bespoke Peer Group The Committee believes that the FTSE 250 Index is an appropriate comparator index used to compare performance given that the Company is a constituent of this Index and the lack of direct competitor comparators available in the London market.
The table below summarises the Executive Vice Chairman & CEOs single figure for total remuneration since listing.
This table is also required to show the long-term incentive vesting as a percentage of the maximum for each year, however LTIP grants were made for the first time in 2014 and none have yet vested.
Executive Vice Chairman & CEO Dr B R Shetty 2012 US$000 2013 US$000 2014 US$000 2015 US$000 2016 US$000 Single remuneration figure 550.6 787.4 849.7 1,254.3 3,040.3 STIP payout % of maximum n a 75% 95% 100% 100% LTIP vesting % of maximum n a n a n a n a n a The Company did not operate the STIP in respect of 2012.
PAY ACROSS THE GROUP As required, the table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO and that of all employees during the 2016 financial year.
However, for the reasons stated on page 67 above, the Committee do not reference the salary or other elements of remuneration to all other employees of the Group.
% Salary Annual bonus Benefits Executive Vice Chairman & CEO 95.0% 192.5% 4.9% All-employees 7.6% n a 4.7% note: the Company does not operate bonus plans for all employees.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2016 continued Annual Remuneration Report continued OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The graph below shows the total group-wide remuneration expenditure and dividends for the last two years.
400 371.1 350 300 239.2 250 200 150 132.7 100 82.2 15.3 16.4 50 2015 2016 Profit for the Distributions to Total employee 0 financial year shareholders pay $m attributable $m to equity $m It is my pleasure to submit this report to shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: LORD CLANWILLIAM Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 78 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
