Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee addressed the following areas in 2016: Future Directors Remuneration Policy and Introduction of the Executive Single Incentive Plan ESIP PageGroup operates in a cyclical industry in which the retention and ongoing motivation of executives and management continuity is critical to the success of the Company.
The Committees aim is for the Remuneration Policy to encourage long-term decision making, to avoid undue volatility in remuneration outcomes and to act as an effective retention tool in market downturns.
Following a review of remuneration in 2016, the Committee determined that these goals could not be achieved successfully within the construct of the existing Policy.
A new Remuneration Policy is now proposed which will simplify remuneration by combining the annual bonus and LTIP into a single scheme, the Executive Single Incentive Plan ESIP.
Danuta Gray, Committee Chairman The key features of the ESIP are: simplification replacing the existing annual bonus and LTIP with one plan: ANNUAL STATEMENT no change in the maximum total quantum available to executives: Dear Shareholder, use of a single performance scorecard, with a balance of metrics, aligning reward outcomes to our Key Performance Indicators and strategy: On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to significant deferral ensuring that awards drive shareholding of executives 60% of each present the Directors Remuneration Report award will be deferred in shares over three years: for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This Directors Remuneration Report is continuation of the Executive shareholding requirement of two-times base salary and the split into three parts: this Statement: the introduction of a two-year holding period on vesting ESIP awards for Executives who Annual Report on Remuneration: and the have not met the requirement: new Directors Remuneration Policy for both annual and longer-term trailing performance will be measured: Executive Directors and Non-Executive the longer-term metrics will include both absolute and relative performance: and Directors.
simpler accounting treatment and transparent remuneration reporting disclosures.
During the year, the Committee reviewed With regard to the assessment of performance under the ESIP, at least 70% of any the current Directors Remuneration Policy assessment will be linked to financial outcomes, and we will include further financial the Policy to ensure it reflects our paygoals within the personal element linked to the specific objectives of the individual where for-performance philosophy and provides appropriate.
For the first award, the balanced scorecard will be as follows: alignment to our strategy.
As a result of this review, the Remuneration Committee identified a number of issues with the current Policy and has proposed to address Measure Weightings these through the introduction of a new PBT Executive Single Incentive Plan ESIP.
30 The ESIP represents a radical simplification Annual performance Non-financial, strategic and will replace both the current annual 15 bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan, with Personal performance no increase in the maximum variable pay 10 opportunity.
If approved at the 2017 Annual EPS growth General Meeting, the ESIP will make its first 35 Longer-term metrics award in the 2018 financial year in respect Relative Gross Profit growth 10 of 2017 performance.
Further information on the ESIP is provided below in this Annual performance measures will include PBT, strategic and personal performance.
Annual Annual Statement and in the Directors targets will be set for PBT.
Strategic measures will focus Executives on key drivers of longRemuneration Policy.
For example, these will be key milestones or projects that ensure the business is appropriately developed for the future, and are likely to be shared across both Executives.
Personal measures will be tailored to each role, and cover areas such as people development, specific job related goals, and the extent to which the Executives set and drive the culture of PageGroup and have the appropriate succession plans in place for the future.
Longer-term metrics will include Gross Profit growth relative to peers, and EPS growth.
Targets for the trailing EPS performance metric will take account of the internal business plan and strategic goals, broker forecasts, and EPS target ranges used by other FTSE 250 companies.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 53 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information pension benefits to be reduced to align Annual Bonus Shareholder consultation with those of other employees.
We are As in previous years, the performance We consulted with shareholders and closely monitoring market developments criteria in 2016 were a combination of shareholder representatives about the with respect to pension benefits and profit before tax, and the achievement introduction of the ESIP and the base will keep this aspect of policy under of strategic targets.
The total annual salary increase for the Chief Financial review for any new Executive Director bonus payout for the Chief Executive Officer in 2017.
Officer was determined at 604,828, like to thank all the shareholders and At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the being 58.9% of the maximum bonus shareholder representatives who took Annual Statement and Annual Report on opportunity and for the Chief Financial part in this consultation and provided Remuneration for 2017 will be subject Officer was 302,900, being 62.1% constructive feedback which resulted in to an advisory vote.
The new Directors of the maximum bonus opportunity.
adaptations being made to the original Remuneration Policy will be subject to These bonus payments represent a proposal.
In summary, feedback was the triennial binding shareholder vote.
reduction compared to last year.
Shareholders welcomed the detail on the annual bonus targets and simplification of remuneration and the I very much hope that we will receive your the strategic objectives is set out on requirement to always defer a portion support at the 2017 AGM.
pages 62 and 63. of variable remuneration, as well as the introduction of a holding requirement Long-Term Incentives on all vesting share awards.
Taking Danuta Gray The LTIP awards made in 2014 account of the feedback received, the Chairman of the Remuneration reached the end of their performance Committee made some amendments to Committee period on 31 December 2016.
The performance metrics and weightings.
performance metrics for these awards 7 March 2017 Base Salary were cumulative EPS, relative gross profit against peer companies, and a The base salary for the Chief Executive range of strategic objectives for each Officer will be 601,749 in 2017.
Following an assessment of represents an increase of 2.6% for 2017, performance against each performance which is slightly below the average UK metric, the Chief Executive Officer Head Office percentage increases.
received 60% of his maximum award The Chief Financial Officers base and the Chief Financial Officer received salary in 2017 will be 350,000.
Kelvin 60% of his maximum award.
Further Stagg was appointed as PageGroups detail is set out on pages 63 and 64.
Chief Financial Officer in June 2014 with a base salary set below market median, with the intention to make Conclusion a series of staged increases.
Since The purpose of the ESIP is to simplify his appointment, Kelvins range of remuneration significantly, and to accountabilities has increased and he align remuneration with sustained and has developed into a well-rounded and balanced performance.
The ESIP will effective Chief Financial Officer.
In line provide an effective incentive for our with the Directors Remuneration Policy, Executive team in the next phase of the Committee decided to award Kelvin PageGroups growth and development.
a salary increase of 7.7% for 2017 to bring his base salary closer in line with We are aware of the desire from some the FTSE 250 median.
shareholders for Executive Director PageGroup Annual Report 2016 54
