Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 128 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 129 Company financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2016 The principal area where such judgements and Nonderivative financial instruments, excluding reporting date until the liability is settled.
Significant accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents Income tax estimates has been made is detailed below: interests in subsidiary undertakings, are recognised the compensation cost is recognised on a straightline Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises General information initially at fair value plus, for instruments not basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made on hand, cash deposited with financial institutions and current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised General information on the Company is provided in Classification of the companys investment designated at fair value through profit or loss, any to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the shortterm call deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents in the income statement except to the extent that Note 1 of the Consolidated financial statements on in International Hotel Properties Limited directly attributable transaction costs.
Loan receivables vesting period due to the failure to satisfy service have a maturity of less than three months.
it relates to items recognised directly in other page 91.
IHL at fair value through profit or loss and payables are subsequently measured at amortised conditions or nonmarket performance conditions.
comprehensive income or equity, in which case Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which are On 14 October 2015, the Company acquired, by way cost using the effective interest ratemethod.
itisrecognised in other comprehensive income.
Statement of compliance restricted until the fulfilment of certain conditions.
Foreign currency of private placement, 3.8 million shares in the newly A financial instrument is recognised when the These Company Financial Statements financial Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and listed International Hotel Properties Limited formerly Transactions in foreign currencies are translated Company becomes a party to the contractual statements, have been prepared in accordance with Noncurrent assets held for sale is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted International Hotel Group Limited for 3.8 million.
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS A noncurrent asset, including a subsidiary undertaking or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Onthe date of listing this represented 25.4 per cent the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities derecognised if the Companys contractual rights to as issued by the International Accounting Standards acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the of the entitys issued share capital and the investment denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date the cash flows from the financial assets expire or if Board IASB and with those parts of the Isle of resale, is classified as held for sale if it is expected income statement because it excludes items of income was classified as an associate on initial recognition.
are translated to the functional currency at the foreign the Company transfers the financial assets to another Man Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies that its carrying amount will be recovered principally or expense that are not taxable or tax deductible.
On20October 2015, the Company ceased to exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange party without retaining control or substantially all risks reporting under IFRS.
through sale rather than through continuing use.
The recognise IHL as an associate when its shareholding differences arising on translation are recognised in the Deferred tax is provided using the statement of and rewards of the asset.
Regular way purchases and noncurrent asset must be available for immediate was diluted to 13.2 per cent and reclassified the income statement.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities The accounting policies applied by the Company in financial position liability method, providing for sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade sale and it is highly probable that the sale will occur investment as a financial instrument at fair value these financial statements differ from those applied by denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at temporary differences between the carrying amounts date, i. e. the date that the Company commits itself within one year.
For the sale to be highly probable, the through profit or loss.
fair value are translated to the functional currency at the Company in its audited financial statements as at of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial liabilities are appropriate level of management must be committed the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates that the and for the year ended 31 August 2015 as the financial and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The The degree of judgement relating to this classification derecognised if the Companys obligations specified to a plan to sell the asset.
statements were previously prepared in accordance following temporary differences are not provided for: is increased given that the Company currently has inthe contractexpire.
with existing United Kingdom Generally Accepted On initial classification as held for sale, generally, those arising from goodwill not deductible for tax representation on IHLs Board of Directors.
In drawing Provisions Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Refer to Note II for Investments at Fair Value through noncurrent assets are measured at the lower of the purposes, those arising from the initial recognition of their conclusion, the Directors have considered the A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, further information on the transition of the financial Profit or Loss previous carrying amount and fair value less costs assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting or criteria for significant influence in paragraphs 59 the Company has a present legal or constructive statements to IFRS.
to sell, with any adjustments taken to the income taxable profit, nor differences relating to investments in of IAS 28, the size of shareholding at 15.5 per cent An instrument is classified at fair value through profit obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is statement.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsidiary undertakings to the extent described below.
and that the Company does not have the right to or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such The following are the relevant new standards, probable that an outflow of economic benefits will subsequent remeasurement.
However, certain items The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the appoint a director.
Having considered all the facts upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments are amendments and interpretations that have been issued be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are such as financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 expected manner of realisation or settlement of the and circumstances the Directors believe that the designated as fair value through profit or loss if the but are not yet effective or have not been adopted determined by discounting the expected cash flows at continue to be measured in accordance with those carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates designation of the Companys residual investment Company manages such investments and makes early: unless noted otherwise their adoption would a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments standards.
enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
at fair value through profit or loss prior to disposal purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
have no material impact on these financial statements: of the time value of money and the risks specific to isappropriate.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs Impairment losses subsequent to the classification A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent theliability.
IFRS 2 Share Based Payment amendment are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Financial of assets as held for sale are recognised in the that it is probable that future taxable profits will be IFRS2 Investment in and loans to instruments at fair value through profit or loss comprise Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic incomestatement.
available against which the asset can be utilised and is IFRS 5 NonCurrent Assets Held for Sale and subsidiary undertakings equity securities and are measured at fair value benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Discontinued Operations amendment IFRS 5 Increases in fair value less costs to sell of assets that Investments in subsidiary undertakings are carried in with changes therein recognised in the statement of estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a the related tax benefit will be realised.
have been classified as held for sale are recognised in the Companys separate financial statements at cost comprehensive income.
Fair values are determined by contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the income statement to the extent that the increase Deferred tax is not provided on temporary differences less impairment losses, if any.
Loans to subsidiary reference to their quoted bid price at the reporting date.
amendment IFRS 7 ofeconomic benefits is remote.
is not in excess of any cumulative impairment loss arising on investments in subsidiary undertakings and undertakings are initially recognised at fair value IFRS 9 Financial Instruments amendment IFRS 9 Capital commitments are disclosed when the Financial Instruments Impairment previously recognised in respect of the asset.
Assets joint ventures where the timing of the reversal can and subsequently measured at amortised cost less Company has a contractual future obligation which has IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
be controlled and it is probable that the temporary impairment losses, if any.
Impairment losses of both Financial assets not carried at fair value through not been provided for at the balance sheet date.
IFRS 15 difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
investment in and loans to subsidiary undertakings profit or loss are assessed at each reporting date to Gains and losses on remeasurement and impairment IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements are determined with reference to the undertakings determine whether there is objective evidence that they losses subsequent to classification as disposal groups Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are Capital management amendment IAS 1 fair value.
Fair value is derived from a review of the are impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective and noncurrent assets held for sale are shown within expected to apply to the period when the asset is The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital EPRA adjusted net assets of Redefine International IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows amendment evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred continuing operations in the income statement, unless realised or the liability settled.
Deferred tax on the base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market P. L. C. Group.
Impairment reversals are recognised on after the initial recognition, that the loss event had a IAS7 they qualify as discontinued operations.
fair value adjustment on investment properties and confidence and to sustain future development of a consistent basis as the original charge and do not negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of listed securities has been provided at the capital gains IAS 12 Income Taxes amendment IAS 12 the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both Noncurrent assets held for sale are presented exceed cost.
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings that asset and the impact on those cash flows can be taxation rate based on the manner in which each asset IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as separately from other assets and liabilities on the the difference between the net disposal proceeds and estimated reliably.
is expected to be realised.
Deferred taxation liabilities the return on capital, which the Company defines as Investment Entities amendment IAS 27 statement of financial position.
Prior periods are its carrying amount is recognised in the statement of are provided only to the extent that there are not Objective evidence that financial assets including total shareholders equity, excluding noncontrolling notreclassified.
Basis of preparation sufficient tax losses to shield the charge.
equity securities are impaired can include default or interests, and the dividends paid to ordinary The financial statements are presented in Great delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an amount Share capital shareholders.
Investment in associate undertaking Employee benefits and employee British Pounds, which is the functional currency of due to the Company on terms that the Company would Ordinary share capital Investments in associate undertakings are carried At the 2015 AGM the Company received the necessary sharebased payments the Company, and rounded to the nearest hundred not consider otherwise, indications that a debtor or in the Companys separate financial statements at Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs authorisation from shareholders to purchase its own Employee benefits, such as salaries and other thousand pounds.
They are prepared using the issuer will enter bankruptcy, adverse changes in the cost less impairment losses, if any.
On disposal or shares on the market, subject to such shares being directly attributable to the issue of new shares, net of benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over historical cost basis except for financial assets payment status of borrowers or issuers in the Company, derecognition of the investment as an associate, tax, are shown as a deduction from any recognised cancelled immediately upon acquisition.
The timing the period during which employees have provided designated at fair value through profit and loss.
economic conditions that correlate with defaults or the the difference between the carrying amount and the sharepremium.
of purchases will depend on market conditions services.
Bonuses are recognised to the extent that the disappearance of an active market for a security.
net disposal proceeds or the retained interest in the and purchase and sale decisions will be made on Going concern Company has a legal or constructive obligation to its Dividends residual investment designated at fair value through An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset a transaction by transaction basis by the Board of employees that can be measured reliably.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company has profit and loss is recognised as a gain or loss in the measured at amortised cost is calculated as the Directors.
No share purchases took place in the Dividends to shareholders are recognised when adequate resources to continue in operational Sharebased incentives are provided to employees difference between its carrying amount and the present statement of comprehensive income.
In the case of interim period.
The Company does not have a defined share existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason under the Companys LongTerm Performance value of the estimated future cash flows discounted dividends, this is when declared and paid by the buybackplan.
these Company financial statements have been Financial instruments Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and at the assets original effective interest rate.
In the case of final dividends, this is when prepared on a going concern basis.
The level of the Companys borrowings, in terms of its the LongTerm Restricted Stock Plan RSP for Financial Instruments recognition, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive approved by the shareholders at a general meeting.
Articles of Association, shall not at any time, without employees.
The Company recognises a compensation classification and measurement income and reflected in an allowance account against Key judgements and estimates the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the Investment and interest income loans and receivables.
Interest on the impaired asset Non-Derivative Financial Instruments The preparation of financial statements in conformity Company exceed ten times the aggregate of: fair value of the awards, measured using the Monte continues to be recognised.
When a subsequent Dividend income is recognised on the date the with IFRS requires the use of judgements and Nonderivative financial instruments comprise Carlo valuation methodology.
i. the amount paid up on the issued share capital of event e. g. repayment by a debtor causes the amount Companys right to receive payment is established.
estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets investments in equity securities, noncurrent loans and of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in Interest earned on cash invested with financial the Company: and For equitysettled schemes, the fair value is determined receivables, trade and other receivables, cash and and liabilities at the reporting date and the reported impairment loss is calculated on a basis consistent institutions is recognised on an accrual basis using at the date of grant and is not subsequently cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and amounts of revenues and expenses during the year.
the total of capital and revenue reserves.
with the original charge and reversed through the theeffective interest rate method.
remeasured unless the conditions on which the award other payables.
Although these estimates are based on the Directors The Companys dividend policy is to distribute the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of was granted aremodified.
best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual majority of its earnings available for distribution in the investment in and loans to subsidiary undertakings is results may differ materially from those estimates.
For cashsettled schemes, the fair value is determined form of dividends to shareholders.
assessed separately as detailed above.
at the date of grant and is remeasured at each
