REMUNERATION REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER THE REMUNERATION POLICY SETS OUT OUR APPROACH TO THE REWARD OF EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.
IT REFLECTS OUR AIM THAT WE SHOULD ENSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUITY IN THIS LONG-TERM BUSINESS WHILST PROVIDING OVERALL FAIR REMUNERATION LEVELS.
THE POLICY WE HAVE OPERATED THROUGHOUT THIS FINANCIAL YEAR WAS APPROVED BY SHAREHOLDERS AT THE 2016 AGM.
We have seen another year of excellent progress, achieving growth in NAV As a result of this performance, the Committee confirmed that the TSR target and earnings.
We continue our high level of asset management activity and and the NAV target were fully met resulting in 100% vesting of these awards.
have made good progress on our main projects see page 50.
We have LTIP GRANT completed an important financial restructuring as described on page 62.
As detailed in last years report, we undertook a comprehensive review of the Against the backdrop of this performance, the Committees main decisions LTIP as part of the renewal of our plan which had reached its ten-year limit.
during the year related to: This was approved at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee agreed to introduce a two year post-vesting holding period for new awards.
Last years report indicated ANNUAL BONUS TARGETS that the LTIP awards to be made in the year ending 30 September 2016 would The Committee sets annual targets and objectives which align with the be made under the old LTIP rules in December 2015, without the holding Groups long-term strategy.
Ultimately, the Committee decided it would be more appropriate to delay the grant of executive awards until after the 2016 AGM once Where projects extend for periods beyond the financial year, annual targets shareholders had approved the new rules.
This allowed the grants to be are set to assess progress towards achievement of the ultimate objectives.
made under the new plan with the post-vesting holding period and new In setting the targets, the Committee uses the Groups KPIs which drive value malus clawback provisions.
in the form of long-term rental growth.
The Committee made a grant of nil cost options in February 2016 at 125% of ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOMES AND EXERCISE OF DISCRETION basic annual salary with a three year performance period to 30 September 2018.
Subject to performance against the targets TSR performance compared with Annual bonus awards are measured against our KPIs and other performance the FTSE350 REIT Index and NAV growth, the awards will vest in December objectives which contribute to long-term shareholder value.
The outcome of 2018, and be released in December 2020 following the post-vesting holding performance against these targets was 82% of the maximum award.
bonus targets are disclosed in full on page 98.
However, the Committee took into account that the achievement of objectives was made against a background ALIGNMENT WITH EMPLOYEES of a continuing buoyant West End economy and felt that a cautious approach to remuneration should be adopted.
It has decided that an annual bonus In reviewing salaries and considering bonus outcomes, the Committee considers award of 60% of maximum is more reasonable in the circumstances.
the overall pay packages of the executive directors.
The Committee is aware of the sensitivity of pay issues and considers all employees when reviewing Each executive director has elected to receive his award solely in the form executive directors pay.
All employees receive the same benefits as directors: of deferred shares, and will therefore receive a deferred share award of 90% they participate in the LTIP and have the opportunity to defer their annual of salary in December 2016, equivalent to 60% of maximum under the scheme.
They also participate in sharesave, and receive health and The Committee exercised discretion in reducing the annual bonus award to life insurance.
avoid a formulaic outturn and reflect a more appropriate payout.
All employees also receive a pension: executive directors have the equivalent LTIP VESTING of 25% of salary paid as pension contributions: all other employees have the equivalent of 17.5% of salary paid into a pension.
LTIP awards which were made in 2013 will vest in December 2016, based on a three year performance period which ended on 30 September 2016.
Annualised TSR of 17% per annum exceeded that of the benchmark FTSE 350 Real Estate Index by over 9% per annum over the period.
Growth in NAV above the RPI benchmark was 16.17% over the period.
94 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF SALARIES Salaries of executive directors were reviewed to take effect from 1 December AT A GLANCE 2016 with increases of in the range of 1-2%, and below average salary increases for our employees.
2016 GROUP PERFORMANCE CHAIRMAN FEES Rents receivable ERV growth The Committee agreed the fees for the incoming Chairman at 150,000 per annum which were set at a market competitive level in line with our policy.
7.2% REMUNERATION POLICY Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, 98.4m 5.7% with almost 95% of shareholders voting in favour of the new arrangements.
We are not proposing any changes this year and therefore the full Remuneration Policy has not been included in this years report.
An extract from the EPRA Earnings Dividend Remuneration Policy table is reproduced on pages 96 and 97 for ease of per share per share reference.
The Annual Remuneration Report was approved by 99% of shareholders 7.7% 6.9% voting at the 2016 AGM.
We look forward to receiving your continued support at the forthcoming AGM.
14.0p 14.7p Sally Walden Chairman Remuneration Committee Portfolio value EPRA NAV per share 4.0% 2.2% CONTEXT FOR THE GROUPS REMUNERATION APPROACH 3.35 bn 8.88 The Group has 27 employees, including four executive directors.
Of those four, three have an average length of service of 29 years.
The combined holdings of these three executive directors stand at TSR FTSE350 just over 2.8 million shares with a market value at 30 September Real Estate Index 2016 of circa 27.5 million, which equates to individual holdings of approximately 21 times their annual salary.
The executive directors have taken their annual bonus in shares in ten out of the last 8.0% -12% eleven years since the Deferred Annual Share Bonus scheme was introduced and retained shares from the LTIP.
As a result, they have built up substantial shareholdings.
The Groups small team of executive directors and key employees all have a close involvement in the continuing development, and implementation, of the Groups management strategies.
Consequently, the Committee considers it appropriate that, in setting objectives and measuring performance, emphasis is placed on team rather than individual performance.
Average length of service below the Board is 10 years.
The management team has had one resignation during the year.
The total number of employees increased this year by two.
