REMUNERATION REPORT The following section sets out the proposed Remuneration Policy to be put forward for approval by shareholders in a binding vote at the forthcoming 2017 AGM.
This policy report in full can also be found on the Company website www.
com : it has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Directors remuneration policy Vecturas remuneration policy is driven by the Companys strategy and business model and has been designed to reflect the Committees remuneration philosophy, as summarised below.
Philosophy Support value creation for shareholders over the longer term and create alignment with shareholders Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Share ownership guidelines Element Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP andholding periods How it is Broadly mid-market.
Set no higher than The most significant Significant personal influencedby the mid-market and is the least element of the package.
holdings must be acquired remuneration significant variable element.
and maintained and vested Has stretching targets that philosophy shares must be retained for Has stretching corporate are clearly aligned with a period.
and personal targets that shareholder value.
support Vecturas annual Performance measured over goals and its overall strategy.
three years and subsequent Deferral of a proportion in holding requirements for a shares increases alignment further two years align with with shareholders.
the long-term interests of the Company.
Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees The principal changes proposed to the policy are as follows: regarding its policy for Directors, the Committee has regard to the Increase in the bonus maximum from 100% of salary to 135% policy for remuneration of employees across the Group.
It does so ofsalary CEO and 125% of salary other Executive Directors.
in a number of respects: Flexibility to set the threshold bonus percentage at up to 20% Employees are rewarded with a remuneration package that includes ofthe maximum award.
certain key benefits such as life assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, access to the pension Introduction of deferral for bonuses in excess of 100% of salary.
scheme, participation in Vecturas all-employee share schemes Deferral will be by way of shares for two years and at risk and many employees are eligible to receive a bonus.
The bonus scheme for Directors and employees is designed Reduction in the maximum award under the Long-Term Incentive toreward performance, and all individuals work towards Plan from 250% of salary to 185% of salary.
Replacement of the five-year and kicker LTIP elements with a When determining the annual salary increases and remuneration three-year performance period and a two-year post-vesting packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers the holding period.
general base salary increase for the broader employee population.
Revision of the stretch vesting level for TSR from upper decile The remuneration of Senior Executives below Board level is reviewed toupper quartile, offset by the reduction in quantum.
by the Committee on an annual basis.
The remuneration packages Introduction of a financial metric for future LTIP awards, replacing of these Executives are broadly consistent with the policy outlined the European pharmaceuticals TSR peer group.
above, with the overall impact of the role and the individual being considered as well as relevant market comparative data, save that lower bonus percentages and lower LTIP opportunities are applicable.
The following table and accompanying notes set out the main principles of reward for the Executive Directors of the Group as set out in the current Remuneration Policy.
Subject to approval at the 2017 AGM, the Policy is intended to be effective for the 2017 financial year and remain in place for a period of three years until the 2020 AGM.
66 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Base salary increases are No formal metrics, although increases will To recruit and retain Executives The Committee aims to set base awarded at the discretion take account of Group performance.
of the highest calibre who are salary at levels that are broadly of the Committee: capable of delivering the Groups aligned with the mid-points for however, salary increases strategic objectives, reflecting the equivalent roles in comparable will normally be considered individuals experience and role companies in the UK, adjusted in relation to the average pay within the Group.
to reflect company size rises awarded to the wider and complexity.
Base salary is designed to workforce.
provide an appropriate level of Salaries are normally reviewed Where a higher level of fixed income to avoid an annually and changes are increase is appropriate over-reliance on variable pay generally effective from 1 January.
given the performance elements that could encourage The annual salary review of and contribution of the excessive risk taking.
Executive Directors takes a incumbent, orwhere number of factors into there has been a change consideration, including: in responsibilities, the Committee retains the business performance: discretion to award salary increases awarded to the more significant base overall employee population: salary increases.
skills and experience of the individual over time: scope of the individuals responsibilities: changes in the size and complexity of the Group: market competitiveness: and the underlying rate of inflation.
Benefits Benefits in kind offered to The Company aims to offer The value of each benefit Not performance related.
Executive Directors are provided benefits that are in line with is not predetermined and on a market-competitive basis, market practice.
is based upon the cost to to assist with the retention and the Group.
The main benefits currently recruitment of staff.
provided are life assurance, permanent health insurance and private medical and dental insurance.
Under certain circumstances the Group will offer relocation allowances to employees.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Pensions The Group aims to provide The Group operates a money Up to 20% of basic salary Not performance related.
market-competitive retirement purchase scheme and all contribution to the Group benefits, to reward employees, including Executive Personal Pension Plan or .
Directors, are invited to participate.
For Executives who are affected bythe HMRC lifetime or annual allowances, the Company may provide cash supplements inrespect of benefits above theallowance.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 67 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration policy continued Executive Directors continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual performance bonus awards made from 2017 An annual bonus rewards the Objectives are agreed with the Bonuses are limited to a Corporate goals typically include revenue achievement of stretching Committee, and the Board as maximum of 135% of base generation, development of pipeline progress, objectives that support the awhole, at the start of each salary for the CEO and partnering successes and control of cash Groups corporate goals and financial year.
125% of base salary for expenditure, although the Committee has the delivery of the business strategy other Executive Directors.
discretion to set other targets.
Different performance measures together with goals in relation to and weightings may be used Goals set are specific, measurable and are personal performance.
each year, as agreed with the linked to the Groups longer-term strategy.
Delivery of a proportion in Committee, to take into account Up to 20% of the maximum is payable at sharesprovides alignment with changes in the business strategy.
threshold performance against each measure.
shareholders and facilitates the Bonuses are paid at the discretion operation of clawback.
The Committee takes into account overall corporate performance and individual performance when determining the final bonus amount to be awarded.
Bonuses are typically paid in March.
Bonuses up to 100% of base salary are payable in cash, with any bonus in excess of 100% of base salary normally compulsorily deferred into shares for two years.
Participants may also be entitled to receive dividend equivalents on vested shares.
Under the rules of the scheme, the Committee can claw back upto 100% of the bonus awarded in the event of material misstatement of the Companys financial results, an error in assessing the performance conditions to which an award is subject or for any other matter which it deems relevant.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made from 2017 The Remuneration Committee Discretionary annual award of nil Annual awards of up to Awards normally based on key measures believes that a key component of or nominal cost options that vest 185% of salary may linked to achievement of Vecturas strategy the overall remuneration package according to performance begranted.
such as relative total shareholder return TSR is the provision of equity awards conditions normally measured and or financial metrics measured over to Senior Executives through over three financial years.
theLTIP, which is designed to Participants may also be entitled The Committee retains the discretion to vary incentivise growth in the longer toreceive dividend equivalents the chosen relative TSR peer Group or the term and align them with onvested shares.
weighting between the metrics and or shareholders interests.
introduce new metrics aligned to the Groups Awards granted from 2017 strategy for awards in future years, providing onwards are subject to an they are not materially less challenging in additional two-year post-vesting thecircumstances.
The Committee would holding requirement on the net normally consult with its major shareholders of tax value of sharesvesting.
before making significant changes to the Awards will be subject to performance conditions.
clawback where there has been a 15% of the maximum award vests at the misstatement of the Companys threshold median performance level, rising financial results, an error in to 100% vesting at maximum upper quartile.
assessing the performance conditions to which an award Awards are also subject to an underpin based is subject or for any other on the Committees assessment of the Groups matter which the Committee underlying performance against a range of deems relevant.
factors, including the Companys underlying financial performance, absolute shareholder Awards are subject to the returns and progress against milestones over discretions contained in the the performance period.
Any exercise of relevant plan rules.
discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders.
The performance conditions for previous long-term incentive awards are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
68 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Executive Directors continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics All-employee share schemes All employees, including Both of the schemes offered are Participation limits are Not performance related and no performance Executive Directors, are HMRC-approved schemes and set by the relevant tax conditions apply.
encouraged to become operate on standard terms.
authorities from time shareholders of Vectura Group to time.
plc through participation in our all-employee share schemes.
The Group currently offers UK employees the opportunity to participate in the Vectura Sharesave SAYE scheme and the Vectura Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Where possible, similar plans will operate for overseas employees.
Share ownership guidelines Share ownership guidelines for In accordance with best practice, Executive Directors are Not performance related.
Executive Directors and senior Executive Directors are required to required to build and retain employees are designed to retain at least half of any LTIP a holding of Vectura Group strengthen the alignment awards vesting as shares after plc shares equivalent to at between the interests of senior paying any tax due until they least 200% of their base management with those of have reached the required level salary.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fees Set at a level that is sufficient to The Chairman and the When reviewing fee Not performance related.
attract and retain high-calibre Non-Executive Directors receive levels, account is taken Non-Executives who have a fees paid in cash, with additional ofmarket movements in broad range of skills and fees received for chairing the fees of Non-Executive experience to oversee the committees of the Board, for Directors, Board Committee implementation of the fulfilling the role of senior responsibilities and ongoing Companysstrategy.
independent director or for time commitments.
Additional fees may also be paid inthe event that a Directors normal annual time commitment is significantly exceeded in any year.
Fees are normally paid monthly and reviewed annually.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performancerelated incentive schemes, nor do they receive any benefits, other than limited travel and hospitalityrelated benefits, in connection with their roles.
Notes to the policy table overall strategy and they are the key metrics used by the Executive For the avoidance of doubt, any commitments entered into by the Directors to oversee the operations of the business.
The Committee Company prior to the approval and implementation of the policy considers that the performance targets for the LTIP and the bonus outlined above may be honoured, even if they are not consistent represent an appropriate balance between the long-term and with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled.
short-term performance of the Group, as well as an appropriate balance between external and internal assessments of performance.
In operating its policy, the Committee may exercise discretion set out below and in accordance with the relevant sections of the The targets for the bonus scheme for the forthcoming year will various plan rules: beset out in general terms, subject to limitations with regards to commercial sensitivity.
The full details of the targets will be disclosed Performance conditions when they are in the public domain, usually following the end of The Committee selected the performance conditions outlined in the relevant financial year in the Directors remuneration report.
theremuneration policy because they are aligned with the Groups Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 69 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors Directors remuneration policy continued The charts below show hypothetical values of the 2017 Notes to the policy table continued remuneration package for each Executive Director under three Performance conditions continued assumed performance scenarios and these scenarios are based Relative TSR has been chosen as a performance metric for the 2017 upon the remuneration policy set out above.
The information awards as it is aligned with our shareholders expectations and it presented below uses the level of salary, benefits and pension reflects the returns that we generate for our shareholders relative entitlements for each of the Directors as at 1 January 2017. to the returns of the general market.
The FTSE 250 index excluding Base salaries for 2017: James Ward-Lilley 502,250, Trevor Phillips financial services and real estate companies has been chosen as it 307,077 and Andrew Derodra 347,820.
Benefits of 32,000, is a published index, is transparent for shareholders, and provides a 16,000 and 10,000 respectively, and a pension allowance of 20% robust comparator group of similarly sized companies.
of salary has been assumed.
The Committee believes that the introduction of a financial metric Below target remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that reflects our growth ambitions and the increasing maturity of our there is no annual bonus payment and no awards under the LTIP vest.
Over the life of the policy, the choice of financial metric and basis of measurement may be varied to reflect the Companys On-target performance remuneration receivable this scenario development and strategic priorities.
assumes that the Directors receive a bonus payout of 67.5% CEO or 62.5% other Directors of salary and that LTIP awards worth The proposed performance conditions for the LTIP awards to be 27.75% of salary at grant would ultimately vest.
granted in 2017, are outlined on page 84 ofthe Directors annual remuneration report.
Stretch remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that theDirectors receive a maximum bonus payout of 135% 125% Committee discretion CEO other Directors of their salary and that a maximum LTIP The Committee operates under the powers it has been delegated award of 185% of salary would ultimately vest.
In addition, it complies with rules that have either been approved by shareholders Long-Term Incentive Plan and The actual amounts earned by Executive Directors under these Deferred Share Bonus Plan or by the Board annual performance three scenarios will depend on share price performance over the bonus scheme.
These rules provide the Committee with certain vesting period.
For the purpose of these illustrations, any share discretions which serve to ensure that the implementation of the price appreciation has been ignored.
For simplicity, the value of remuneration policy is fair, both to the individual Directors and participating in the Companys all-employee share schemes has tothe shareholders.
The Committee also has discretion to set also been ignored.
components of remuneration within a range, from time to time.
James Ward-Lilley The extent of such discretions is set out in the relevant rules and themaximum opportunity or the performance metrics sections Minimum 100% 634,700 ofthe policy table above.
To ensure the efficient administration ofthe variable incentive plans outlined above, the Committee willapply certain operational discretions.
On-target 57% 30% 13% 1,113,093 These include the following: Maximum 28% 30% 42% 2,241,900 selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: determining the timing of grants of awards and or payments: Trevor Phillips determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : Minimum 100% 384,492 reviewing performance against LTI performance metric: determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment On-target 58% 29% 13% 661,629 ofperformance: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain Maximum 29% 29% 42% 1,336,431 circumstances, for instance for changes in capital structure: determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes Andrew Derodra andapplying the appropriate treatment: and undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance Minimum 100% 427,384 measures and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and other incentive schemes, where applicable, from year to year.
On-target 58% 29% 13% 741,292 If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or LTIP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer Maximum 29% 29% 42% 1,505,626 appropriate e. g. material acquisition or divestment, the Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions Fixed pay Bonus LTIP are not materially less challenging than the original conditions.
70 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Other remuneration policies In circumstances in which a leaving Director may be entitled to pursue Termination and loss of office payments a legal claim, the Company may negotiate settlement terms if it The Groups policy on remuneration for Executive Directors who considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and, with leave the Group is consistent with general market practice and is the approval of the Committee on the remuneration elements set out below.
The Committee will exercise its discretion when therein, enter into a settlement agreement.
determining amounts that should be paid to leavers, taking into Executive Directors service contracts account the facts and circumstances of each case.
When calculating It is the Groups policy that Executive Directors should have contracts termination payments, the Committee will take into account a with an indefinite term and which provide for a maximum period of variety of factors, including individual and Company performance, twelve months notice.
The Executive Directors may accept outside the length of service of the Executive Director in question and, appointments, with prior Board approval, provided that these where appropriate, the obligation for the Executive Director to opportunities do not negatively impact on their ability to fulfil their mitigate loss.
Whether any related fees are retained by the In the case of a good leaver, the following policy will normally apply: individual or are remitted to the Group will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
None of the Executive Directors currently hold notice period of twelve months and pension and contractual any outside directorships.
benefits, or payment in lieu of notice: Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement statutory redundancy payments will be made, as appropriate: All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement which are terminable on not less than three months notice by Executives have no entitlement to a bonus payment in the event either party and not less than six months notice in the case of that they cease to be employed by the Group: however, they theChairman.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is may be considered for a pro-rated cash award by the Committee determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of in good leaver circumstances: Association and based on a review of fees paid to Non-Executive the rules of the LTIP and DSBP contain provisions setting out the Directors of similar companies.
In accordance with the Code, as treatment of awards where a participant ceases to be employed applicable to a FTSE 250 company, all Non-Executive Directors by the Vectura Group.
Other than in good leaver circumstances, aresubject to annual re-election at each AGM.
In the event of a participants death, The dates of appointment of each of the Directors serving at retirement, ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, the sale of 31December 2016 are summarised in the table below.
hisemploying company or business out of the Vectura Group Date of contract or orfor any other reason, at the discretion of the Remuneration date of appointment Committee, awards will not be forfeited but will instead normally Executive Directors vest on the original vesting date.
Vesting in these circumstances J Ward-Lilley 24 September 2015 will be subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions measured at that time and time pro-rating in the case A Derodra 10 June 2016 of LTIP awards.
DSBP awards will normally vest in full at the original T Phillips 1 June 2012 vesting date.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Non-Executive Directors Committee may allow the awards to vest on cessation of the participants employment, subject to the satisfaction of the S E Foden 18 January 2007 performance conditions measured at that time and time pro-rating N W Warner 1 February 2011 in the case of LTIP awards.
In either case, the Remuneration B F J Angelici 1 December 2013 Committee can decide to disapply time pro-rating, if it thinks P-O Andersson 1 April 2015 itisappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances: F Condella 10 June 2016 any other share-based entitlements granted to an Executive T Werner 10 June 2016 Director under the Companys share and share option plans willbe determined based upon the relevant plan rules: and An external independent Board evaluation has been performed and the Board confirmed that all Non-Executive Directors were regarded the Committee may also provide for the leaver to be reimbursed as independent, including Susan Foden, who has service greater for a reasonable level of legal fees in connection with a than nine years, and Frank Condella, who was previously an settlement agreement and may make a contribution toward Executive Director then Non-executive Director of Skyepharma.
Further details of the evaluation are contained in the Corporate Governance report.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 71 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Directors remuneration policy continued Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees Other remuneration policies continued regarding the policy, the Committee considers the general base Remuneration for new appointments salary increase for the broader employee population when Where it is necessary to recruit or replace an Executive Director, determining the annual salary increases and remuneration theCommittee has determined that the new Executive Director packages for the Executive Directors.
Accordingly, the Committee willreceive a compensation package in accordance with the confirms that the remuneration policy outlined above has been provisions of the policy.
designed with due regard to the policy for remuneration of employees across the Group.
In setting base salaries for new Executive Directors, the Committee will consider the existing salary package of the new Director and the The remuneration of senior executives below Board level is reviewed individuals level of experience.
In setting the annual performance by the Committee on an annual basis.
The remuneration packages bonus, the Committee may wish to set different performance metrics of these executives are consistent with the policy outlined above, to those of other Executive Directors in the first year of appointment.
save that lower bonus percentages and lower LTIP opportunities Where it is appropriate to offer a below-median salary on initial are applicable.
Variable pay elements for senior executives are appointment, the Committee will have the discretion to allow driven principally by market comparatives and the overall impact phased salary increases over a period of time for a newly appointed ofthe role the individual holds at Vectura.
Long-term incentives are Director, even though this may involve increases in excess of provided to those individuals identified as having significant inflation and the increases awarded to the wider workforce.
potential to influence Group performance.
The Committee wishes to retain the ability to make buyout awards All employees are rewarded with a market-competitive remuneration to a new Executive Director to facilitate the recruitment process.
package that includes certain key benefits such as life assurance, The amount of any such award would not exceed the expected permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, access to value being forfeited and, to the extent possible, would mirror the the pension scheme, participation in Vecturas all-employee share form of payment, timing and degree of conditionality, etc.
Where schemes and many have eligibility to receive a bonus.
The bonus awards are granted subject to performance conditions, these would scheme for Directors and employees is designed to reward performance, be relevant to Vectura Group plc.
Any such award would only be and allindividuals are required to achieve challenging personal goals.
made in exceptional circumstances and shareholders would be How shareholders views are taken into account informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
The Committee takes an active interest in shareholders views Share-based awards would be made using the existing share plans, andvoting on the Remuneration report.
Throughout the year, where possible, although the Committee may also use the flexibility theCommittee has engaged directly with major shareholders provided under the Listing Rules to make awards without prior andtheir representative bodies regarding the changes to salaries shareholder approval.
awarded following completion of the merger and also to the policy In respect of internal appointments, any commitments entered into going forwards.
in respect of a prior role, including variable pay elements, may be The consultation has informed a number of the key revisions to the allowed to pay out according to its prior terms.
proposed policy: For external and internal appointments, the Committee may the scaling back of the proposed salary increases post-merger: consider it appropriate to pay reasonable relocation or incidental expenses, including payment of reasonable legal expenses.
Tax the introduction of a two-year post-vesting holding period equalisation may be considered if an Executive Director is adversely forawards made in 2017 and subsequently under the LTIP: affected by taxation due to their employment with the Company.
the introduction of a financial performance metric for awards The terms of appointment for a Non-Executive Director would made in 2017 and subsequently under the LTIP: and beinaccordance with the remuneration policy for Non-Executive bonus deferral into shares under the annual bonus for awards Directors as set out in the policy table.
The Committee will continue to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any materialchanges to the policy be proposed.
72 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Advice to the Committee Annual report on remuneration The Committee takes account of information from both internal and Remuneration Committee the Committee independent sources, including New Bridge Street NBS Aon plcs Governance executive remuneration consultancy who act as the Committees The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
principal, and only material, advisor.
NBS advises on all aspects of The Committee is chaired by Dr Susan Foden and, during the nine Vecturas remuneration policy and reviews Vecturas remuneration months ended 31 December 2016, its members were Bruno Angelici, structures against corporate governance best practice.
Thomas Werner, Dr John Brown, Dr Per-Olof Andersson and Neil Warner.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance and complies with its Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines to Code, the Board has confirmed that Bruno Angelici was independent ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
upon his appointment to the Board.
No conflicts of interest have The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its arisen during the period and none of the members of the Committee advisors on an annual basis.
During the period, Vectura incurred hasany personal financial interest in the matters discussed, other fees of 185,000 from NBS.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are The Groups Human Resource Director provides updates to the determined by the Board on the joint recommendation of the Committee, as required, to ensure that the Committee is fully Chairman and the ChiefExecutive Officer.
informed about pay and performance issues throughout the Group.
The Committees principal function is to support Vecturas strategy The Committee takes these factors into account when determining byensuring that those individuals responsible for delivering the the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives.
strategy are appropriately incentivised and rewarded through the Following the merger, we are reviewing our reward strategy operation of Vecturas remuneration policy.
In determining the belowBoard level and intend to harmonise our terms and Groups policy, and in constructing the remuneration arrangements conditions to the fullest extent possible within local legislative for Executive Directors and senior employees, the Board, advised parameters.
Harmonisation will take place in 2017 and will be by the Committee, aims to provide remuneration packages that are aligned to our newly defined values and behaviours to ensure that competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate Executive our reward practices will both reinforce and embed our target Directors and senior employees of the highest calibre.
In 2016 we have undertaken extensive benchmarking with The Committee is responsible for and considered during the period: comparable organisations in order to determine the competitiveness of our current and revised approach to remuneration: the output setting a remuneration policy that is designed to promote the from this research and the proposed reward framework have been long-term success of the Company: discussed with the Committee to ensure suitable alignment with Executive remuneration.
ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives reflects both their individual performance No Executive Director or employee is allowed to participate in any and their contribution to the overall Group results: discussion directly relating to their own personal conditions of service or remuneration.
determining the terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives, including recruitment and retention terms: approving the design and performance targets of any annual incentive schemes that include the Executive Directors and senior executives: agreeing the design and performance targets, where applicable, of all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval: rigorously assessing the appropriateness and subsequent achievement of the performance targets related to any share incentive plans: recommending to the Board the fees to be paid to the Chairman.
The Chairman is excluded from this process: and the selection and appointment of the external advisors to theCommittee to provide independent remuneration advice where necessary.
The Committee is formally constituted and operates on written terms of reference, which are modelled on the Code and are available on Vecturas website, www.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 73 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual report on remuneration continued Key decisions during the period The Committee met nine times during the nine months ended 31December 2016.
The key decisions made by the Committee during the period are summarised below: approval of overall pay levels for 2016 following the merger withSkyepharma for the Group as a whole, following a consultation withshareholders: determination of the leaver arrangements for Andrew Oakley: oversight of incentives, retention arrangements, the harmonisation of terms and conditions and integration and cost savings programmes for the general workforce during the merger andintegration processes: approval of 2017 base salary increases for Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Leadership Team, ensuring that, where appropriate, these are aligned both internally andexternally: review of achievement against the 2016 corporate goals and approval of the percentage of the bonus pool to be paid out across the Group, and a review of achievement against personal goals for Executive Directors: determination of performance against the TSR conditions for awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, resulting in theapproval of 50% vesting of the awards granted in 2013: approval of the grant of the 2016 LTIP awards: and development of a new Executive remuneration policy and consultation with shareholders on the proposals outlined in the Chairmans Annual Statement.
Audited information Directors remuneration nine months ended 31 December 2016 The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the period is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments plus Company pension contributions, and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the nine months to 31 December 2016, being 425,000.
2 2 to J Ward-Lilley vesting on 24 September 2016 and 7 June 2016 are shown in the table under Other.
The value of awards that vested inSeptember 2015 is shown under note 8 ofthe table for the year ended 31 March 2016 on page 75.
2 T M Phillips received annual benefits of approximately 15,000 relating to US medical and dental insurance.
T M Phillips also made employee contributions towards this plan.
3 A J Oakley stepped down as Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the mer ger with Skyepharma on 10 June 2016.
He received payment in lieu of Notice of 141,882 in the period and96,376 by way of compensation and settlement and up to 30,000 towards outplacement fees.
A further payment of 141,882 in lieu of notice was made six months later as he hadnotmaterially breached any of the terms of the settlement agreement or commenced employment which is equivalent to his twelve-month notice entitlement.
4 A Derodra was appointed as Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the merger with Skyepharma on 10 June 2016.
5 J Brown retired from the Board on 11 July 2016.
6 P-O Andersson and F Condella receive a 2,000 allowance for each Board meeting that requires transatlantic travel and these amounts are shown as Other in the table above.
74 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration year ended 31 March 2016 The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the prior year is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum ofemoluments plus Company pension contributions, and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance inthe year to 31 March 2016, being 726,000.
8 J W ard-Lilley was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 24 September 2015.
On appointment he received a cash payment of 164,784 which represented his anticipated bonus payment of226,114, pro-rated for the proportion of bonus year that he served at AstraZeneca.
This payment was a compensation for his pro-rata bonus entitlement at his existing employer.
In addition, hereceived an award over 571,988 nil-cost options as one part of his buyout arrangements.
Half of this tranche of options vested immediately with a value of 500,203, subject to a twelve-month holding requirement, with the remainder vesting twelve months after appointment subject to the achievement of personal performance conditions.
The award of options issubject to clawback in certain circumstances.
The value of the bonus buyout award and the value of the shares that vested immediately have been included within Other in the above table.
9 T M Phillips salary was temporarily increased from 281,875 to 381,875 for the period from 1 July 2015 to 24 September 2015 whilst he fulfilled the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer.
10 A J Oakley was pr ovided with a temporary relocation allowance of 2,500 per month starting from 1 November 2015 in order to assist with the cost of temporary accommodation and travel connected with his relocation from Switzerland to Chippenham.
11 P-O Andersson was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015.
Notes to the remuneration tables a This is the amount earned in respect of the financial period.
b This is the taxable value of benefits paid or payable in r espect of the financial period.
These benefits typically relate to death, disability and medical insurance.
T M Phillips also receives benefits in relation to US medical and dental insurance and A J Oakley received worldwide medical and dental insurance and was provided with a relocation allowance.
c This is the total bonus earned under the annual bonus scheme in respect of the financial year.
d The amount shown r elates to the market value of LTIP awards that vested during the year.
Refer to page 78 for details of LTIP awards which have vested during the year.
e UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contribu tions where prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded.
The Committee has previously determined that impacted Executive Directors would receive pension benefits limited by the prescribed maximum amounts and an additional taxable supplementary cash payment equal to the cost to the Company of the pension benefit foregone.
The amount of the allowance awarded to any Executive Director so impacted has been set by the Committee so that there isno additional cost to the Company resulting from this arrangement.
f Other payments in 2015 16 r elate to payments made under agreements with C P Blackwell and with J Ward-Lilley: these amounts were described in the Annual report on remuneration last year.
g This r elates to matching and free share SIP awards granted during the year and SAYE awards which have vested during the year.
Thebenefit of the SIP awards is calculated as the number of shares awarded multiplied by the share price on the date of the award.
The benefit of the SAYE award is calculated as the number of options awarded multiplied by the discount to the market share price onthe date the option was awarded.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 75 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration audited information Performance-related pay earned in the nine-month period to 31 December 2016 Annual performance bonus Employees are eligible for an annual discretionary cash bonus, whereby performance objectives are established at the beginning of the financial period by reference to suitably challenging corporate goals.
The scheme is offered to many staff below Board level and maximum bonus opportunities range from 10% to 75% of salary, depending on grade.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
The Committee has consistently set stretching corporate goals, including goals around revenue generation, development pipeline progress, partnering successes and control of cash expenditure, which are weighted towards goals with the highest corporate significance.
In addition, a significant percentage of the bonus potential is set against challenging personal objectives which are linked to the overall business strategy.
Bonuses were limited to a maximum of 100% of basic salary for each Executive Director.
Upon completion of the merger with Skyepharma PLC, the Group has operated to a December year end and therefore annual bonus elements have been effective and measured over the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 and bonuses will be payable in April 2017 calculated on actual base salary earned during the nine-month period or since appointment to 31December 2016, as appropriate.
The performance objectives against which bonus payments were calculated are set out in thetable below.
Full disclosure of some objectives has been restricted due to commercial sensitivity: however, full disclosure will beprovided as and when the objectives cease to be commercially sensitive.
It is anticipated that disclosure will be made in the following year, inline with best practice.
The Committee assessed that a bonus of 77%99.5% 2015 16: 89%92% of salary was appropriate for the Executive Directors when judged by the achievement of the metrics set out in the tables below.
Level of bonus awarded as a % ofmetric % of Performance measure Weighting Targets fullbonus Commentary Merger completion 15% Effective legal, regulatory and financial 15% Highly successful transaction and dayone andintegration transaction completion and synergy implementation delivered strengthened delivery governance systems including executive and Effective new Leadership in place senior management appointments Successful Lyon reintegration Significant progression of synergy delivery on Integrated strategy agreed with the target and on schedule Board Pipeline and portfolio 20% Including: VR315 effective regulatory 20% Major developments achieved for VR315 and progression support flutiform capacity strategy novel and wholly owned pipeline Progression of key partnered programmes Improved flutiform supply chain delivery Key partnership delivery including VR876 and VR465 Progression of valued 20% Minimum NPV agreed with the Board 20% Completion of significant business development new business deals including Mundipharma and progression of development deals other business development in line with targets Creating a stimulating 5% Strengthening key leadership and talent 5% Significant increase in leadership and talent with and rewarding place Increased employee understanding retention of key personnel achieved to work andengagement Strong employee engagement New values and workplace Development and delivery of HR plan including engagement plan refreshed culture and values Full ELT integrations Individual objectives 10% Corporate, functional, team target 10% Total 70% 70% 76 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE The personal objectives set in respect of the 2016 bonus plan are set out below: Personal objectives Key aspects of performance against individual objectives Performance J Ward-Lilley Delivery of Group financial targets Securing delivery of target revenue, EBITDA and cash goals Delivery above plan Leadership and implementation of Securing deal completion Achieved effective merger Effective transition management Effective synergy delivery Establishing effective new management team and overall organisation structure Corporate strategy development Overall accountable for corporate strategy update including Achieved long-term business shape and strategic planning for value creation Key pipeline and portfolio Progression to goals of partnered and non-partnered programmes Achieved progression and operational delivery including VR315, VR876, VR465, VR942, VR475 and VR647 Execution of valued new Valued deal execution and clear plans with existing and Achieved business development new partners A Derodra Delivery of financial performance Leadership of Enlarged Group Financial Performance Delivery Delivery above plan Corporate strategy development Key contribution to development of long-term business shape Achieved and strategic planning for value creation Effective integration and Effective support pre, peri and post-merger to complete deal and Achieved synergydelivery maintain operational execution Securing and tracking cost synergy delivery at least at committed level Establishing new Group-wide Establishing new finance organisation with effective functional and Achieved financial systems, process Group-wide planning, reporting and control processes and systems andorganisation T M Phillips Corporate strategy development Lead refresh of overall corporate business shape and key value drivers Achieved Integration leadership Effective support pre, peri and post-merger to complete deal and maintain operational execution Overall responsibility for integration steering group and projectmanagement Establishing effective new supply Delivery of flutiform supplies leveraging relationships with Achieved chain management and delivery Sanofi, Mundi and Kyorin and Group-wide capacity planning Ensuring effective key Oversight and support for key programmes pre and Achieved programme progression post-merger including VR315, VR876 and VR465 Effective progression of China Completion of capitalisation of Kinnovata joint venture Partially partnership with Kinnovata achieved Andrew Oakleys 2016 bonus was based entirely on objectives related to completion and closing of the 2015 16 results, establishing targets and budgets for 2016 17 and the completion of the merger.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity these are not being fully disclosed.
The resulting annual bonus awards were as follows: Maximum Total opportunity Actual % of awarded % salary salary 000 J Ward-Lilley 100 99.5 355 A Derodra 100 99.5 189 T M Phillips 100 98 219 A Oakley 100 77 43 Consistent with our policy in 2016, bonuses are paid entirely in cash.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 77 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration auditedinformation continued LTIP scheme Scheme interests vested during the period On 7 June 2013, an award of LTIP options was made to the Executive Directors who were in office at this time.
As disclosed in last years report, James Ward-Lilley also has an award subject to the same conditions granted as part of his buyout arrangements.
Vesting of these awards was calculated in the period by our consultants, New Bridge Street, as follows: Measure Performance target Actual performance The vesting outcome for each comparator group is calculated as follows: TSR against Vecturas TSR of 86.55% exceeded that constituents of the Level of comparative performance during ofthe upper quartile of the constituents theperformance period Percentage of LTIP award released FTSE SmallCap Index of the FTSE SmallCap Index over the 50% of award measurement period.
Consequently, Below median 100% of this element of the awards waseligible to vest.
1 TSR against Euro Stoxx At or above median 25 Vecturas TSR was 1.9% below the median comparator group 1 of the peer group over the measurement Upper quartile 100 50% of award period.
Consequently, none of this element 1 Linear vesting between points.
of the awards wereeligible tovest.
The value of LTIP options which have vested during the year is as follows: Number Share price at Percentage of Exercise Value of LTIP of options vesting award price awards vesting Director Type of award Vesting date awarded p vested p J Ward-Lilley Buyout of 50% of 24 September 2016 285,994 140.3 100% 401,250 AZmilestone award J Ward-Lilley Buyout of AZ 2013 LTIP 7 June 2016 285,994 139 50% 0.025 198,766 T M Phillips 2013 LTIP 7 June 2016 611,246 139 50% 0.025 424,816 A Derodra Total 1,183,234 1,024,832 Vesting of this award was subject to the achievement of commercially sensitive strategic targets related to his first twelve months in the role.
These included targets relating to reviewing the strategy for the Group, development of succession plans and achieving a satisfactory level of performance against his individual bonus incentives.
These were deemed to be fully met.
In accordance with the rules of Vecturas LTIP scheme, the Committee determined that Chris Blackwell, who retired as CEO on 30 June 2015, and Andrew Oakley, who retired as CFO on 10 June 2016, should be treated as good leavers.
During the period 229,055 awards made toChris Blackwell vested.
As disclosed in last years report, his awards were subject to pro-rating to the end of his notice period ended 30June 2016.
For awards in 2013 this resulted in no reduction in the number of shares vesting.
Scheme interests awarded during the period audited Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The following awards of nominal cost options were granted to the Executive Directors under the 2015 LTIP scheme on 1 August 2016: Share price used Number to determine % that of options Value of level of award Face value Exercise price vests at 1 Director Date of grant awarded award p p threshold Vesting date J Ward-Lilley 1 August 2016 780,838 250% 153.88 1,201,554 0.025 15 See below T M Phillips 1 August 2016 489,108 250% 153.88 752,639 0.025 15 See below A J Derodra 30 June 2016 532,147 250% 160.20 852,499 0.025 15 See below Total 1,802,093 2,806,692 1 40% of the awar d vests on 1 August 2019 and the remaining 60% of the award 40% for the standard five-year award and 20% for the kicker vests on 1 August 2021.
Details of the relevant performance conditions are set out overleaf.
2 The shar e price used for awards made on 1 August was the average of five days prior to 27 July, being higher than that on the day before grant 148.5p which was affected by the announcement of legal proceedings against GSK.
The share price for the award made on 30 June was the closing mid market price on the date prior tothe award.
78 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP audited The awards granted under the 2015 LTIP scheme on 1 August 2016 are subject to relative TSR, measured over three tranches over three orfive years, against two comparator groups each representing 50% of the total award, as set out in the following table: Proportion of total award two Performance equal parts period Comparator group Performance required for vesting Tranche 1 20% 3 years FTSE 250 companies excluding real estate Median 15% to upper quartile 100% and financial services 20% 3 years Selected European pharmaceutical companies Tranche 2 20% 5 years FTSE 250 companies excluding real estate Median 15% to upper decile 100% and financial services 20% 5 years Selected European pharmaceutical companies Tranche 3 10% 5 years FTSE 250 companies excluding real estate Upper decile 100% and financial services 10% Selected European pharmaceutical companies The full European pharmaceutical comparator group used for these awards is Ablynx NV, ALK-Abell A S, Almirall SA, arGEN-X N. V, Basilea Pharmaceutica AG, BTG plc, Circassia Limited, Clinigen Group Plc, Consort Medical, Cosmo Pharmaceuticals S. p. A. DBV Technologies S. A. Evotec AG, Faes Farma, Genmab A S, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, Indivior PLC, Molecular Partners AG, Morphosys AG, Orion Oyj, Pharma Mar, Recipharm AB publ, Recordati SpA, Stada-Arzneimittel AG, Stallergenes Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, Vernalis plc and Zealand Pharma.
Performance against the conditions will be measured by the Committees independent advisors.
Irrespective of the extent to which the relative TSR conditions have been met, the Committee may decrease the percentage vesting based on a range of factors, including the Groups performance, absolute shareholder returns and progress against milestones.
Any exercise of this discretion by the Committee will be fully disclosed to shareholders with an explanation of the Committees reasoning in the Remuneration report for the relevant year.
To the extent that performance conditions are not met in full at the end of the three-year or five-year performance periods, awards lapse.
The Committee has the power to claw back and or apply a malus mechanism in respect of all or part of the awards payments for one year following vesting in the event of a material misstatement, error in the calculation of performance against the performance conditions of the plan or any other matter which it deems relevant to this provision.
SIP free share awards An award of free shares was made to all employees on 28 December 2016 under Vecturas Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The awards are subject to a three-year holding period and no performance conditions are attached, except for continued employment.
The awards made to Directors who held office on 28 December 2016 are shown in the table below: Closing share Number of price on Face shares date of grant value % that vests Director awarded p at threshold Vesting date J Ward-Lilley 1,559 134.7 2,100 100 28 December 2019 T M Phillips 2,672 134.7 3,599 100 28 December 2019 A Derodra 2,672 134.7 3,599 100 28 December 2019 Total 6,903 9,298 Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 79 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration auditedinformation continued Sharesave Total pension entitlements Vectura Group plc also operates a Sharesave SAYE Share Option As stated in the notes to the single figure remuneration table, UK Scheme for employees and Executive Directors.
Under this scheme tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions all eligible employees and Executive Directors are invited to where prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded.
Impacted subscribe for options, which may be granted at a discount of up Executive Directors receive an additional taxable supplementary cash to20% of market value and which vest after three or five years.
payment in lieu of pension contributions in excess of any limits.
The SAYE is an HMRC-approved all-employee plan to which Received in cash performance conditions do not apply.
000 On 1 April 2016, the following Sharesave options vested: Executive Directors Number Exercise Value of SAYE J Ward-Lilley 71 of options Share price price award vesting Director awarded p p T M Phillips 45 T M Phillips 11,718 139.5 76.8 16,347 A Derodra 38 1 Total 11,718 16,347 A Oakley 66 Total 220 1 Andrew Oakley retired as a Director on 10 June 2016.
Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information As a direct link between Executive remuneration and the interests of shareholders, the Committee has implemented shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and key senior employees.
The guidelines require that Executive Directors build up and maintain an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company that is 200% of their annual base salary.
In assessing compliance with this requirement, the value of the shareholding shown below is assessed using the share price on 30 December 2016, being 137.1p.
The value as a percentage of salary hasbeen calculated using the base salary as at 30 December 2016, as shown in the single figure remuneration table.
Until this level of shareholding has been attained, Executive Directors are required to retain at least half of any share awards vesting asshares after paying any tax due until they have a holding equivalent to at least 200% of their base salary.
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions Shares owned Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Value of 31 December owned Awards Awards 2016 shares as granted granted ordinary shares a % of 2014 2015 2016 under under LR 9.4.
2 2 Unapproved Approved Unapproved Approved 1 2 3 of 0.025p each salary award award award LR 9.4.
2 2 and LTIP schemes scheme scheme Sharesave scheme scheme Sharesave Executive Directors J Ward-Lilley 378,942 108 630,252 780,838 273,635 T M Phillips 484,917 220 206,766 394,782 489,108 A Derodra 333,146 134 532,147 A Oakley 2,505 394,782 15,734 Non-Executive Directors B F J Angelici 92,903 F Condella 168,721 S E Foden 17,500 P-O Andersson N W Warner 30,477 T Werner 124,341 As at date of leaving being 10June2016.
80 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE Payments made for loss of office and payments to past He was also provided with a pro-rata bonus payment of 42,892 Directors audited information for the period worked from 1 April 2016 to 10 June 2016 based on As described in last years Annual remuneration report, Andrew Oakley achievement of personal objectives linked to the completion and stepped down from the role of Chief Financial Officer upon completion closing of the 2015 16 results, establishing targets and budgets of the merger with Skyepharma.
He received normal pay and benefits for2016 17 and the completion of the merger.
up to this date, and his 2015 16 bonus was paid as normal in June.
He was treated as a good leaver under the LTIP.
In light of the Under the terms of his service agreement, Andrew Oakley was subject considerable delay in granting him his first LTIP award in late to a twelve-month notice period.
He received a payment in lieu of September 2015, which was due to the transition between notice for this notice period paid in two stages.
A sum of 141,882 ChiefExecutive Officers and the timing of the introduction of the in lieu of six months notice was paid shortly after his departure.
new LTIP, his value and committed contribution to the development Afurther payment of 141,882 was made six months after as he had of strategy, and his importance to the completion of the proposed not breached any of the terms of his settlement agreement with merger with Skyepharma, the Committee determined that this award the Company or commenced employment or engagement elsewhere.
will be pro-rated based on the period between his joining the Company These provided a total remuneration which was equivalent to his on 1 January 2015 and his departure.
The award will vest at the twelve-month notice entitlement.
He was provided with private normal time subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
medical, private dental and life assurance for twelve months from the date of termination.
He also received a payment of 96,376 by way of compensation and settlement for his other benefits and any potential claims he may have against the Company and the Company agreed to provide up to 30,000 towards outplacement fees.
1 The 2014 awar ds are subject to thesame The Directors who have held office during the period ended 31 December 2016 and their interests performance conditions measured over inrespect of which transactions arenotifiable to the Company under the Financial Conduct Authoritys three years from the date of grant of each award.
Vesting of 50% of the Transparency Rules in the share capital of Vectura Group plc at31December 2016 are shown in the awards is dependent on relative TSR following table below.
performance against the FTSE Small Cap and 50% against the following peer There was no change in the Directors interests between 31 December 2016 and 20 March 2017, group selected from the constituents thedate of this report, except for the purchase of shares under the SIP.
ofthe Euro Stoxx Index: Ablynx, Active Biotech, ALK-Abell, BBBiotech, BTG, Faes Farma, Galapagos, Genmab, Hikma, LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions Ipsen, Medivir, Pharma Mar, Recordati, Stada-Arzneimittel AG, Swedish Orphan Shares owned Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Biovitrum, ThromboGenics NV, Tubize and Value of Virbac.
Novesting occurs if Vecturas TSR 31 December owned Awards Awards is below median: 25%of each element 2016 shares as granted granted vests at median, rising to full vesting at ordinary shares a % of 2014 2015 2016 under under LR 9.4.
2 2 Unapproved Approved Unapproved Approved upper quartile.
1 2 3 of 0.025p each salary award award award LR 9.4.
2 2 and LTIP schemes scheme scheme Sharesave scheme scheme Sharesave 2 The 2015 and 2016 awar ds consist ofa three-year tranche, a five-year tranche Executive Directors and a five-year kicker MrOakleys J Ward-Lilley 378,942 108 630,252 780,838 273,635 award is subject to pro-rating from 1January 2015 to 10June 2016 in T M Phillips 484,917 220 206,766 394,782 489,108 accordance with hisleaving arrangements.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 81 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Unaudited information Performance graph and table The following graph shows Vectura Group plcs cumulative total shareholder return TSR over the last eight financial years relative to the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was chosen as Vectura is one of the constituent companies and the Committee feels that it is the most appropriate against which to measure performance.
TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and any other payments made to or by shareholders within the period.
Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Reuters 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Vectura Group plc on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
2 No LTIP awards vested during FY 2012 13 or FY 2013 14.
3 Upon appointment, James W ard-Lilley received nil-cost options, certain of which vested immediately and certain vested on the first anniversary of appointment subject to performance conditions.
Refer to page 75 for further details.
82 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Value GOVERNANCE Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Set out below is the change over the prior period in base salary, benefits, pension and annual performance bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and the Groups employees: James Ward-Lilley 1 Chief Executive Officer All employees 2016 000 Percentage change FY 2015 16 vs 9 months 2016 Percentage change Salary 357 4.85 2.79 Benefits 23 0.94 Bonus 355 13.48 2.36 1 % figures based on annualised change.
Relative importance of Executive Director remuneration Total revenue, research and development expenditure and loss before tax have been selected as comparators for the employee costs as these three financial measures are strong indicators of the activity within the Group and of its performance.
FY 2015 16 9 months 2016 Change m m m Total employee remuneration 22.9 28.0 5.1 Revenue 72.0 126.5 54.5 Research and development expenditure 42.1 45.6 3.5 Loss before tax 1.9 40.1 38.2 Distributions to shareholders Statement of shareholder voting at 2016 AGM At last years AGM held on 7 September 2016, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: For including Total votes cast Total votes discretionary excluding Votes cast including 1 votes Against votes withheld withheld votes withheld To approve the Remuneration report 537,667,257 26,853,225 564,520,482 299,517 564,819,999 % of votes cast 95.24% 4.76% 1 A vote that is withheld does not constitute a vote in law and has not therefore been included in the totals above.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Base salaries Salary from 1 January 2017 or date of appointment Increase J Ward-Lilley 502,250 4.5% T M Phillips 307,077 2% A Derodra 347,820 2% 1 In-year salary increases were awarded by the Committee to James Ward-Lilley and Trevor Phillips following the increased scope of their roles upon completion of the merger.
Bonus Subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, the annual bonus maximum for the CEO will be increased to 135% of salary and 125% of salary for other Executive Directors.
Up to 100% of salary will be payable in cash, with any excess compulsorily deferred into shares for two years.
The performance targets set for the performance bonus for future years will be disclosed in Vecturas 2017 Annual Report and Accounts inaccordance with the policy set out on pages 66 to 72 of this report.
Performance measures for continuing Executive Directors will include targets relating to creating strategic growth opportunities, securing existing pipeline value and achieving financial growth.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 83 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Unaudited information continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year continued LTIP Awards granted in 2017 will consist of: A grant of performance shares with a face value of 185% of salary.
Subject to ongoing shareholder consultation with major shareholders prior to the AGM, it is intended that performance will be measured over three financial years based against the two following performance conditions: 50% against relative TSR vs. FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services and real estate sector companies : and 50% against growth in cumulative EBITDA.
15% of the total award vesting at threshold median performance, increasing to 100% vesting at stretch upper quartile performance.
On vesting these awards will be subject to a further two-year holding period.
Recovery and withholding conditions continue to apply.
Non-Executive Directors fees Non-Executive Director and Chairman fees will be unchanged from the current fees effective from 1 July 2016: Fee Chairman 150,000 Vice Chairman 75,000 1 Committee Chairs SID 58,000 Other NEDs 50,000 1 In the event that an individual holds a Committee chairmanship and holds the position of Senior Independent Dir ector they will receive an additional fee of 2,000 bringing the total maximum fee level to 60,000.
In addition, where a Non-Executive Director is required to undertake transatlantic travel to attend a Board meeting an allowance of 2,000 isprovided.
On behalf of the Board Dr Susan Foden Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 March 2017 84 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016
