GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee was grateful to shareholders for their input andtooktheir representations into account.
Susan Foden Dear shareholder, LTIP awards granted in 2013 were eligible to vest during the year.
In writing last year I commented that 2015 16 had been a period Half of the award was subject to relative TSR performance measured ofmajor change to the senior executive team and Board at Vectura against the FTSE SmallCap Index and half was subject to relative including the appointment of James Ward-Lilley as Chief Executive TSR performance against selected constituents of the Euro Stoxx Officer and with Per-Olof Andersson joining the Board as an Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology Index over the three years to independent Non-executive Director.
Later in 2016 we saw further 6June 2016.
TSR growth over the period of 86.55% resulted in all changes, especially with the closing of the all-share merger with ofthe SmallCap element vesting.
However, Vecturas TSR was just Skyepharma plc.
This has resulted in significant changes to our below the median of the Euro Stoxx peer group and so none of strategy and our leadership team.
Andrew Derodra was appointed thatelement of the award vested.
as Chief Financial Officer and Andrew Oakley left Vectura at the time Following completion of the merger with Skyepharma, the ofcompletion with Skyepharma.
The details of Andrew Derodras Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of James Ward-Lilley remuneration on appointment andAndrew Oakleys termination and Trevor Phillips in consultation with the Companys shareholders.
package were both disclosed in last years report.
In accordance This review took account of the increased scope of the roles in the with the regulations, full details of Andrew Oakleys termination enlarged Company, which have changed significantly in terms of size, arrangements are shown on page 81. complexity and global reach.
In light of the feedback received from shareholders, the proposed salary increases were scaled back from Outturns for the period under review those proposed to 4.2% with effect from June 2016.
Andrew Derodras As reported in the Financial review set out on pages 36 to 42, salary, which was set at the time of his appointment tothe Company, theGroup continued to drive strong revenue and EBITDA growth was not increased further.
Given that the salary ofJames Ward-Lilley asaresult of significant development milestone achievements remained below the Committees assessment ofanappropriate andsustainable and growing royalty revenues.
ratefor his role and performance, we wished to reposition his These financial and strategic successes have been delivered salary over time to take account of the Company performance and alongside significant returns to shareholders over the medium to his development in the role.
long term and are reflected in the variable pay outcomes for 2016.
Directors remuneration policy review and shareholder consultation The Committee considers that the remuneration paid to the Following completion of the merger, the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors fairly reflects their performance during the year has undertaken a thorough review of the remuneration policy and butalso recognises the challenges the Company has faced.
The has consulted with our largest shareholders and proxy voting advisors.
annual bonus payments to Executive Directors for the financial The existing policy was strongly supported and approved with 96.7% period to 31 December 2016, of between 77% and 99.5% of base of the votes in 2015 and the key elements of that policy remain at salary, recognise a year of significant performance against agreed the core of the proposed revised remuneration policy this year.
Royalty revenues and EBITDA have strengthened as market sales from partnered products continue togrow and the completion of the merger represents a significant step in the delivery of the Groups strategy.
A detailed breakdown of the targets set and the payments awarded under the annual bonus scheme and the LTIP is set out on pages 76 to 78.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 63 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration for 2017 and beyond The five-year time horizon of the long-term incentive arrangement In 2017 the Companys annual review of salaries moved from will be maintained and restructured going forward such that 1Aprilto 1 January, in line with our change of financial year.
performance will be measured over a three-year performance Thusthe salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed early in period with a subsequent two-year holding period.
The salary of James Ward-Lilley was increased by 1.7% above The introduction of a financial performance measure beginning the general workforce increase of 2.8% to 502,250.
In determining with the awards in 2017.
Subject to shareholder support through the level of increase, the Committee took into account its considered our ongoing consultation on the financial metric, it is intended view that James Ward-Lilleys salary would be repositioned over time that for 2017 50% of the award will be based on cumulative to reflect the change in the scope of his role as well as his performance three-year growth in EBITDA, with the targets for these awards since appointment.
The latter has included: completion of the disclosed at the time of grant.
post-merger integration ahead of schedule with higher levels of cost savings: hiswork in refreshing the senior team: his success The remaining 50% of the new three-year LTI award will remain inattracting high-calibre Executives to the Company: and his ability subject to a relative total shareholder return TSR condition, to lead andmotivate the organisation.
compared to the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services and The salary increases for Andrew Derodra and Trevor Phillips of real estate sector companies.
2.0%to 347,820 and 307,077 respectively were below that 15% ofthe total award will vest at median or threshold increasing ofthe wider workforce.
to 100% vesting atupper quartile or maximum performance.
Summary of proposed policy changes The current European pharmaceuticals peer group will be Vecturas policy is intended to ensure that the Company is able to removed as, with the introduction of a financial measure, the use attract and incentivise Executives of the calibre required to deliver of tworelative TSR peer groups is felt to result in unnecessary our short-term and longer-term strategic goals.
Its design is also complexity.
The FTSE Index group is considered to be more driven by the Companys strategy and business model.
Our transparent for shareholders and a more robust basis on which remuneration philosophy isthat: to measure Vecturas TSR performance given the very broad levels of fixed pay should be broadly mid-market: range of business models of other companies in the sector and the varying stages of maturity of the potential sector peers.
levels of annual bonus should be no higher than mid-market: and Recognising that operational and in-year performance have long term incentives should form the most significant element increased in their importance in the execution of strategy, it is ofremuneration.
proposed that the maximum annual bonus opportunity be Inreviewing our policy it was clear to the Committee that the balance increased from 100% to 135% of salary for the Chief Executive, between short-term and long-term remuneration was not fulfilling and from 100% to 125% of salary for other Executive Directors.
This was emphasised by the changes brought by This will also partly offset the reduction in LTIP opportunity.
the merger, which increased the focus on operational performance The first 100% of salary of any bonus award will continue, as Vectura is now able to develop andpartner a broader range of asnow, to be paid in cash.
In line with market and best practice technologies and skills, and hasincreased international operations any bonus in excess of 100% of salary will now be compulsorily and a revenue flow frommore mature products.
deferred into shares for two years.
Performance measures will At the time of introduction of the present policy in 2015, a number be similar to those employed today and we continue to work on of our shareholders expressed a desire to see the introduction of improving how we disclose clear and measurable objectives to afinancial performance metric in the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Thisis something we committed to keep under review and, following the merger, we now feel that the time is right to effect this.
The threshold bonus payout percentage will be set at up to 20% ofthe maximum award.
This will allow greater flexibility in the Following a thorough review of the existing policy, the Committee setting of targets and bring the bonus more closely into line with would like to propose a revised policy which will include the following: market practice.
This change will be taken into consideration The maximum opportunity under the Long-Term Incentive Plan insetting the degree of stretch in annual targets that are set.
will be reduced from 250% of salary to 185% of salary.
64 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE The overall impact on quantum of these changes following the AGM 2017 salary review will be: The proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy and its operation will be subject to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
This letter and broadly neutral in fair value terms with a reduction in the gearing the Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to a separate of the package through an overall reduction in maximum advisory vote.
As part of the changes to our policy, shareholders incentive levels: and will also be asked to approve a new Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
the time horizon over which remuneration will be received will We believe the proposed changes to the remuneration policy will remain broadly unchanged, as illustrated in the chart below.
support the next phase of the Companys growth and development and provide flexibility to take better account of market remuneration Illustration of CEO Vectura annual bonus and LTIP vesting periods levels over its term.
They will ensure that remuneration is reflective of the Companys performance and will align individual reward Current average time to vesting 3.6 years both with the interests of our shareholders and the successful implementation of the strategy.
Grant Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 I very much hope that you will join me in supporting these 100% vesting after Bonus 100% one year resolutions at the AGM.
Yours sincerely One-year LTIP 100% based on three-year performance 30% holding period Dr Susan Foden LTIP 150% based on five-year performance Chair of the Remuneration Committee 100% 100% 150% 20 March 2017 Maximum total opportunity of 350% of base salary Proposed average time to disposal 3.5 years Grant Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Bonus 100% 35% deferred for two-years Two-year post-vesting LTIP 185% based on three-year performance 30% holding period 100% 35% 185% Maximum total opportunity of 320% of base salary The Committee is grateful to shareholders for their input and took theirrepresentations into account in proposing these revisions.
TheCompany will continue to review the remuneration structure and set robust and challenging performance targets for variable payawards to align pay with the strategic objectives of the Company and the interests of our shareholders.
In conclusion, the Committee considers it is appropriate to re-balance the incentive arrangements to ensure focus both on successful short-term execution as well as longer-term shareholder value, without increasing the overall quantum of pay.
Further, the Committee believes that this improves transparency and simplicity and will better serve the fundamental needs of the Company in attracting, motivating and retaining key Executives.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 65
