3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 27 Overview Strategic report Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Risk management Portfolio and other information Effective risk management underpins Risk appetite 3is risk appetite is dened by its objective to invest proprietary the successful delivery of our strategy.
capital in assets that generate sufficient proceeds to fund new Integrity, rigour and accountability are opportunities and allow material shareholder distributions as well as good levels of cash income.
central to our values and culture at 3i Investment risk and are embedded in our approach The substantial majority of the Groups capital isinvested in torisk management.
Private Equity investments are subject to a range of factors which include: Understanding our risk appetite and culture Return objective: individually assessed but subject to a target 2x money multiple over three to five years As both an investor and asset manager, 3i is in the business of taking risk in order to seek to achieve its targeted returns for Geographic focus: core markets of northern Europe and investors and shareholders.
The Board approves the strategic North America objectives that determine the level and types of risk that 3i is Sector expertise: focus on Business Services, Consumer prepared to accept.
The Board reviews 3is strategic objectives andIndustrials and risk appetite at least annually.
Vintage: invest c. 500 million750 million per annum in four In order to support its institutional asset management capability, to seven new investments in companies with an enterprise 3is risk appetite policy is built on rigorous and comprehensive valuerange of 100 million500 million at investment investment procedures and conservative capital management.
Our other two businesses are more modest users of Culture proprietary capital but each investment is subject to Integrity, rigour and accountability are central to our values and rigorousreview.
culture and are embedded in our approach to risk management.
Our Investment Committee which has oversight of the investment Capital management pipeline development and approves new investments, significant 3i adopts a conservative approach to managing its capital portfolio changes and divestments, is integral to embedding resources.
There is no appetite for significant structural gearing our institutional approach across the business.
It ensures at the Group level although short-term tactical gearing will be consistency and compliance with 3is financial and strategic used.
In addition, we have a limited appetite for the dilution of requirements, cultural values and appropriate investment capital returns as a result of operating and interest expenses.
Members of the Executive Committee have All three of our business lines, Private Equity, Infrastructure responsibility for their own business or functional areas and the and Debt Management also generate cash income to Group expects individual behaviours to meet the Groups high mitigatethis risk.
All employees share the responsibility forupholding 3is strong control culture and supporting effective risk management.
Senior managers, typically those who report toExecutive Committee members, are required to confirm their individual and business area compliance.
In addition, all staff are assessed on their compliance with the Group values as part of their annual appraisal.
The following sections explain how we control and manage the risks in our business.
It outlines the key risks, our assessment of 3i Groups Pillar 3 document can be found at their potential impact on our business in the context of the current environment and how we seek to mitigate them.
com 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 28 Strategic report Risk management Approach to risk governance The Board is responsible for risk assessment, the risk Non-executive oversight is also exercised through the Audit and management process and for the protection of the Groups Compliance Committee which focuses onupholding standards of reputation and brand integrity.
It considers the most significant integrity, financial reporting, risk management, going concern and risks facing the Group and uses quantitative analyses, such as internal control.
The Audit andCompliance Committees activities the vintage control which considers the portfolio concentration are discussed further onpages 75 to 78. by revenue, geography and sector, and liquidity reporting, where appropriate.
Risk governance structure Overview of risk management framework and governance structure Treasury Transactions Committee Audit and Compliance Committee Board Considers risk implications of specic Determines the Groups risk appetite Receives reports from the Head of treasury transactions as required.
as part of strategy setting.
Internal Audit on the Groups risk management processes and system A quorum of members meet as Overall responsibility for maintaining ofinternal controls.
a system of internal controls that ensures an effective risk management Receives reports from the Head of and oversight process operates Group Compliance on regulatory across the Group.
Considers risks to the Groups brand, Receives reports from the Head of Tax values and reputation as required.
Meets at least six times a year.
Updated at each meeting on the outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting with the opportunity to contribute views orraisequestions.
Meets at least four times a year.
Chief Executive Investment Committee Executive Committee Group Risk Committee Considers risk in the context of Principal decision-making body in Delegated responsibility for risk individual investments, portfolio respect of managing the business.
management and oversight across the management decisions and Group, reecting the Boards appetite Meets monthly.
for risk and any specic limits set.
Maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups risk exposure and associated mitigation or response plan based on risks identied.
Conicts Committee Meets four times a year to consider the Group risk review, including adequacy of risk mitigation and Deals with potential conict issues.
Chairman provides update at each meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Committees of the Board Committees of the Chief Executive Independent review of potential conict issues Risk reporting to Audit and Compliance Committee 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 29 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information The Board has delegated the responsibility for risk oversight to Line management is supported by oversight and control functions the Chief Executive.
He is assisted by the Group Risk Committee such as finance, human resources and legal which constitute the GRC in managing this responsibility, guided by the Boards second line of defence.
The Compliance function is also in the appetite for risk and any specic limits set.
The GRC maintains the second line of defence: its duties include reviewing the effective Group risk review, which summarises the Groups principal risks, operation of our processes in meeting regulatory requirements.
associated mitigating actions and key risk indicators, and Internal Audit provides independent assurance overthe operation identies any changes to the Groups risk prole.
The risk review of controls and is the third line of defence.
Theinternal audit is updated quarterly and the Chief Executive provides quarterly programme includes the review of risk management processes updates to each Audit and Compliance Committee meeting and recommendations to improve the internal control where the Committee members contribute views and raise environment.
The last risk review was completed in May 2016.
The risk framework is further augmented by a separate Risk Risk review process Management Function which has specic responsibilities under The Group risk review process includes the monitoring of key the European Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive strategic and financial metrics considered to be indicators of AIFMD.
It meets ahead of the GRC meetings to consider the potential changes in the Groups risk prole.
The review includes, key risks impacting the Group, and any changes in the relevant but isnotlimited to, the following reference data: period where appropriate.
It also considers the separate risk Financial performance and strategic dashboards reports for each AIF managed by the Group, including areas such as portfolio composition, portfolio valuation, operational updates Vintage control and asset allocation analysis and team changes, which are then considered by the GRC.
Macro-economic and M&A market overview Assurance over the robustness and effectiveness of the Groups Liquidity management overarching risk management processes and compliance with relevant policies is provided to the Audit and Compliance Capital adequacy, including stress testing Committee through the independent assessment by Internal Operating expenses Audit and the work of Group Compliance on regulatory risks.
Portfolio performance reports for Private Equity, Infrastructure Assurance over the robustness of the Groups valuation policy and Debt Management isprovided by the Valuations Committee whose report can be found on pages 79 to 81.
Risk reports for managed AIFs In addition to the above, a number of other committees Quarterly Group risk log contribute to the Groups overall risk governance structure, assetout on page 28.
In addition to the above, the GRC considers the impact of any changes and developments in its risk prole, strategic delivery Risk management framework and reputation quarterly.
The Groups risk management framework is designed to support The GRC uses the above to identify a number of key risks.
It then the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
evaluates the impact and likelihood of each key risk, with reference The key principles that underpin risk management in the to associated measures and key performance indicators.
Groupare: Theadequacy of the mitigation plans is then assessed and, ifnecessary, additional actions are agreed and then reviewed The Board and the Executive Committee promote a culture atthe subsequent meeting.
inwhich risks are identied, assessed and reported in an open, transparent and objective manner: and A number of focus topics are also agreed in advance of each meeting.
In FY2016, the GRC covered the update to the Groups The over-riding priority is to protect the Groups long-term IT strategy: 3is approach to ESG especially with respect to its viability and reputation and produce sustainable, medium portfolio companies: business continuity and cyber security: an tolong-term cash-to-cash returns.
update on the implementation of Infrastructures revised strategy, as well as the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code Managing the Groups Environmental, Social and Governance and relevant risks for 3i associated with the UK EU referendum.
ESG risks is central to how we do business and a key part of our risk management framework.
It also forms part of our halfThere were no significant changes to the Groups approach to yearly portfolio company reviews as described in the Valuations riskgovernance or its operation in FY2016 but we have continued Committee report on page 79. to rene our framework for risk management and reporting whereappropriate.
In practice, the Group operates a three lines of defence framework for managing and identifying risk.
The first line of Further details on 3is approach as a responsible investor are defence against outcomes outside our risk appetite is the available at www.
com business function and the respective Managing Partners across Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management.
