Strategic report Risk report The Committee ensures that thereis a consistent approach to Effective risk management riskacross the Companys strategy, policies and procedures.
underpinsthe successfuldelivery The Company is also reliant on the risk management framework ofthe Investment Adviser and other key service providers, as well ofthe Companys strategy.
ason the risk management operations of each portfolio company.
Steve Wilderspin The Board manages risks through updates from the Investment Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Adviser and other service providers and through representation onportfolio companies boards.
11 May 2016 In addition to the Audit and Risk Committee, a number of other committees contribute to the Companys overall risk Approach to risk governance governance structure.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk management of the Company.
It seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between The Investment Committee, which includes all Directors, meets as mitigating risk and generating attractive risk-adjusted returns required to consider risk in relation to the acquisition, management forshareholders.
Integrity and responsibility are embedded in and disposal of investments.
theCompanys approach to risk management.
The Management Engagement Committee monitors the The Board exercises oversight of the risk framework, performance of the Investment Adviser and considers annually, methodologyand process through the Audit and Risk Committee.
andrecommends to the Board, whether the continued appointment During the year, the Company conducted a thorough review of of the Investment Adviser is in the best interest of the Company the risk framework to ensure that it provides a structured and andits shareholders.
consistentprocess for identifying, assessing and responding torisksin relation to its strategy and business objectives.
Board Has overall responsibility for risk management, including maintaining a governance structure and system of internal controls that ensures effective oversight Board acting as Investment Audit and Risk Management Engagement Committee Committee Committee Receives reports from the Investment Operation of the risk assessment methodology, including Monitors and assesses Adviser on the performance of portfolio a review of risks facing the Company and articulation of the performance of the companies, including an assessment of risk appetite in line with the Companys strategy Investment Adviser key risks and actions implemented to Receives reports from the Investment Adviser and other mitigate them key service providers on the implementation of risk Assesses investment and divestment management processes and systems of internal control proposals from the Investment Adviser, Maintains a risk log with consideration given to their impact on Receives reports from the Investment Adviser and other key portfolio performance and long-term returns service providers on regulatory and compliance matters 32 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report The Audit and Risk Committee uses the above to identify a number Risk review process of key risks.
It then evaluates the impact and likelihood of each key The Companys risk review process includes the monitoring of key risk, with reference to the Companys strategy and business model.
strategic and financial metrics considered to be indicators ofpotential The adequacy of the mitigation plans and controls are then assessed changes in its risk profile.
The review includes, butisnotlimited to, and, if necessary, additional actions are agreed and then reviewed the following: atthe subsequent meeting.
regular updates on the operational and financial performance The Committee maintains a risk matrix, onto which the key risks are ofportfolio companies: mapped by impact and likelihood.
The principal risks are identified infrastructure and broader market overviews: onthe risk matrix as those with the highest combination of impact experience of investment processes: and likelihood scores.
The Company considers these principal risks in greater detail with regard to the assessment of the Companys viability.
key macroeconomic indicators and their impact on the performance A number of scenarios have been developed to reflect likely outcomes and valuation ofportfolio companies: should the principal risks be experienced, as well as consideration of liquidity management: stressed scenarios that could result in the Company ceasing to be viable.
compliance with regulatory obligations: The Company is an investment company, therefore the stressed scenarios analysis of the impact of international initiatives such as the OECDs reflect cash flow from investments being reduced, such that debt Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting and the Common covenants are breached and liabilities cannot be met.
The Investment Reporting Standard, the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Adviser models the impact of these scenarios on the Company and Directive, and the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act: and reports the results to the Board.
The modelling relates to the Companys investment portfolio, as the Company is an investment company and this review of the Companys risk log.
is therefore most relevant to an assessment of viability.
The resulting assessment ofviability is included in this Risk report on page 35.
The key risks identified in the year have been categorised as external, strategic, investment, operational or financial risks.
Risk framework The review of the risk framework included a new assessment of risks facing the Company, mapping these risks onto a risk matrix todetermine the principal risks, and analysing the risks through the framework.
Strategic considerations New or emerging risks Risk assessment Strategy and business model Risk appetite Control and mitigation Risk management Mitigation Internal controls Risk limits Monitoring and measurement Controls assessment Stress testing Assurance work Sensitivity headroom analysis Risk related reporting Internal External Annual report Monthly management accounts Risk appetite Internal and external audit reports Viability statement Service provider control reports Internal controls Risk logs Going concern Compliance reports Statutory accounting disclosures 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 33 Strategic report Risk report Continued The exposure to the Indian rupee remains unhedged.
In relation Risk appetite to this exposure, the Boards assessment remains that the cost of The Committee has reviewed the risk matrix, and set out the hedging the exposure would considerably outweigh the potential Companys appetite for each of the key risks.
As an investment benefits, given the lack of liquidity and resulting high execution costs company, the Company seeks to take investment risk.
The appetite and also due to the significant interest rate differential between for investment risk is described on page 12, with a risk return sterling and rupee which impact the forward currency rates and graph which shows the investment focus of the Company, and in the hedging derivative valuation.
The Board monitors the effectiveness investment policy on page 94.
The Company seeks to limit or manage of the Companys hedging policy on a regular basis.
Overall, 87% of exposure to other risks to acceptable levels.
the foreign exchange gains were offset by movements in the foreign exchange hedging derivatives.
Review of significant key risks The disclosures on the following pages are not an exhaustive list of External risks regulatory and tax risks and uncertainties faced by the Company, but rather a summary During the year the Finnish Energy Authority, which regulates of significant key risks which are under active review by the Board.
electricity distribution in Finland, published the regulatory These significant key risks have the potential to affect materially the settlement for the next two four-year regulatory periods beginning achievement of the Companys strategic objectives and impact its in January 2016.
These change the calculation of the allowed financial performance.
This disclosure shows developments in these return on capital for the industry, and certain other parameters, significant key risks for the year.
The risks that have been identified demonstrating the regulators intent to address the very low allowed as principal risks are described in more detail in the table on pages return on capital experienced by all distribution companies over 36 and 37. recent years.
The Companys risk profile and appetite remains broadly stable.
In October 2015, the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS action plan announced a set of proposals for changes designed to External risks market and competition tighten international tax regimes and prevent tax planning strategies The markets in which the Company seeks to invest, and in particular used by multinational businesses to artificially shift profits to low tax the European economic infrastructure market, are competitive, jurisdictions.
The Company and the Investment Adviser have been with strong demand for large Core assets.
While this has supported monitoring the progress of the BEPS action plan since its inception value gains for existing assets in the portfolio, it has also made it in 2013 and this has included the Investment Adviser contributing challenging for the Company to secure new investments in large to representations made by infrastructure bodies on certain of the Core infrastructure businesses at total returns and yields consistent proposals, notably those concerning the limiting of tax deductions for with the Companys targets, posing a risk to the Companys ability interest expenses of companies.
to source attractive investment opportunities.
In this challenging Although the October 2015 announcements mark a significant environment, the Investment Adviser continues to leverage its milestone for the BEPS action plan, the Company and the Investment network and skills to make investments that can continue to deliver Adviser need to, and will continue to, monitor further developments attractive risk-adjusted returns to the Companys shareholders.
as different jurisdictions now consider the questions of which Interest rates remained low throughout the year.
This had positive proposals they will implement when and to what extent.
The OECD implications for some of the portfolio assets, including Elenia and itself has noted that it needs to carry out further work and deliver AWG, which have been able to continue to raise debt on attractive further detail during 2016 on some of the proposals.
Elenias regulatory allowed return was determined with Budget in March, the UK Government announced its intention to reference to the 10-year Finnish government bond yield until proceed with restrictions on interest deductibility.
From January 2016, under the new regulatory include the adoption of the fixed ratio rule under which deductible settlement discussed below, the regulatory allowed return is interest would be restricted to 30% of UK EBITDA, although the determined with reference to the higher of the current or the 10-year detailed design of the rules will follow further consultation.
The BEPS rolling average 10-year Finnish government bond yield.
This has had proposals are extremely wide ranging and, subject to their adoption a positive impact on the valuation of the Companys holding in Elenia.
and implementation in different jurisdictions, are likely to impact all multinational businesses to some extent.
At this stage it is not Inflation remained below expectations in the period, continuing to possible to determine the precise impact of proposals across impact the assets with inflation-linked revenues.
However, cost Europe on the Company and its investments but the Company and inflation has also been low across the portfolio.
the Investment Adviser will continue to monitor developments and There was significant currency volatility in the year, with sterling consider the necessary actions.
depreciating by 9.1% against the euro in the run up to the UK referendum on continued membership of the European Union, and with the Indian rupee depreciating by 3.1% against sterling.
The Companys objective is to hedge partially its euro exposure and the Singapore dollar exposure associated with the investment in Oiltanking Singapore within the Oystercatcher valuation.
During the year, the hedging programme was extended to cover the Companys exposure to the Danish krona, arising through the investment in ESVAGT, which completed in July 2015.
The revaluation of the hedging programme for the euro, Singapore dollar and Danish krona is impacted by movements in forward exchange rates which are not necessarily matched exactly by an equivalent change in the spot exchange rate at which the assets are translated.
34 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Strategic risks Viability statement During the year, the Company had to balance the funding The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over requirements of its pipeline of investments with the objective a three-year period to March 2019.
The Directors have taken of running its balance sheet efficiently.
The Board assessed account of the current position of the Company, and the principal the Companys liquidity requirements regularly.
The Company risks it faces which are documented in this Risk report.
announced in May 2015 that it had negotiated a new RCF, increasing the Facility from 200 million to 300 million for three The Directors have considered the potential impact on the years.
The new Facility includes a temporary accordion feature, Company of a number of scenarios in addition to the Companys allowing for an increase in the Facility of a further 200 million.
business plan and recent forecasts, which quantify the financial The Company took advantage of this feature in April 2016, and has impact of the principal risks occurring.
These scenarios aggregate short-term borrowing facilities of 500 million available represent severe but plausible circumstances that the Company for the remainder of the calendar year, positioning it to continue to could experience, including a significant impairment in the make commitments for potential new investments.
value of the portfolio and a reduction in the cash flows available from portfolio companies from a variety of causes.
The results Investment risks of this stress testing showed that the Company would be able The Company made four new investments during the year, in to withstand the impact of these scenarios occurring over the ESVAGT, two new Oiltanking terminals, the West of Duddon Sands three-year period.
The Directors also considered scenarios OFTO project, and the Condorcet Campus primary PPP project.
that would represent a serious threat to its liquidity in the time period.
These scenarios were not considered to be plausible.
The performance of the investments in the India Fund remained weak in the year.
The Modi government, elected in May 2014, has The Directors consider that a three-year period to March 2019 made a number of important policy statements in support of is an appropriate period to review for assessing the Companys investment in the infrastructure sector.
This reflects greater predictability of the Companys have yet to translate into concrete initiatives that can improve the cash flows over that time period, the term of the Companys performance of the portfolio materially.
The India Fund sold its entire Revolving Credit Facility, and increased uncertainty surrounding holding in Ind-Barath Energy during the year, realising an uplift to economic, political and regulatory changes over the longer term.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in Operational operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the The key areas of operational risk include the loss of key personnel three-year period to March 2019. atthe Investment Adviser, and whether the Investment Advisers team can continue to support the delivery of the Companys objectives.
The Board monitors the performance of the Investment Adviser through the Management Engagement Committee.
It also monitors the performance of key service providers, receiving reports of any significant control breaches.
Financial risks valuation Following the compression in market returns and changes in asset pricing across the infrastructure sector, together with a new regulatory settlement for Elenia from the Finnish Energy Authority, there were several significant changes to asset valuations within the Companys portfolio in this financial year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 35
