risK ManageMent The successful delivery of Acacias strategy depends on our ability to manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the interests of our stakeholders.
we assess the principal risks to our business as part of ongoing business Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporate risks performance and operational reviews, as follows: identified as a result of these reviews.
Residual risks are identified based on the effectiveness of existing controls.
The principal risks We conduct Group-level risk workshops to consider overall strategic risks identified via this process are then monitored, assessed and reviewed to the business.
throughout the year by the Executive Leadership Team in the first We conduct operational risk workshops focused on specific operational instance, the audit and EHS&S Committees where relevant to their risks in the context of each of our operations.
respective remits of responsibility, and ultimately by the Board, as part of acacias continuing assessment of risk trends and developments.
We conduct functional risk workshops to assess key matters which could affect underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax, Further detail as regards the outcome of the Boards internal control and technical services and business improvement, required for our long-term risk management review for the year is provided on page 68 and below.
We ensure that principal risks are assessed as material components of our monthly operational and financial performance reporting.
riSk management framework principal riSk matrix: reSidual riSkS 2016 2015 Board Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
1 1 Audit EHS&S Committee Committee 6 8 5 2 8 5 2 7 4 4 7 3 9 Executive Leadership Team 3 9 Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and the consistent 6 application of risk management systems.
General managers and functional heads Ensure risk management compliance is embodied LOW IMPACT HIGH in Acacia culture, practices and operations.
principal risks by residual risk 1.
Political, legal and regulatory developments 3.
Safety risks relating to mining operations Internal audit function Assists the Board and management in executing 4.
Implementation of enhanced operational systems 7.
Significant changes to commodity prices 9.
Single country risk 28 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 RARE PROBABILITY ALMOST CERTAIN strAtegic rePort relevant pages p30 Principal risks and uncertainties 2016 principal risk review For 2016 our principal risks have continued to assessment of viability fall within four broad categories: strategic risks, In addition to the risk management reviews a three-year assessment period has financial risks, external risks and operational we have also conducted additional reviews been selected on the basis of the key risks.
The makeup of our principal risks has not relating to business viability relevant to our components and criteria underpinning the significantly changed throughout the year from assessment of acacias ongoing viability and acacia Groups life of mine planning process.
those identified as principal risks in 2015. the related confirmations required to be This process is built on a mine-by-mine basis made in this regard.
using a detailed physical and financial model.
as a result of the review, at the end of 2016 It makes certain assumptions as regards we viewed our principal risks as relating to accordingly, the Directors confirm that they the ongoing gold price environment and the following: have a reasonable expectation that the the performance level of each mine.
Each acacia Group will continue to operate and Security, trespass and vandalism component of the plan is then stress tested meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the for market sensitivities as part of ongoing Political, legal and regulatory developments next three years.
The key components of the plans, has been made with reference to the acacia Safety risks relating to mining operations associated principal risks and relevant Groups current position and prospects, its scenario testing to this planning process are Equipment effectiveness strategy and the acacia Groups principal reviewed by the Directors at least annually.
risks and how these are managed, with Environmental hazards and rehabilitation In addition, the life of mine planning process particular regard to those which are viewed is underpinned by regular Board briefings Implementation of enhanced operational as having the most relevance to acacia as part of ongoing periodic operational systems continuing in operation, when assessed in performance reviews and the discussion terms of financial and operational planning Continuity of power supply of any operational initiatives to be undertaken and impact over a three-year period, being: in the ordinary course of business.
Significant changes to commodity prices environmental hazards and rehabilitation: implementation of enhanced operational The information relating to acacias Single country risk systems: significant change to commodity performance included on pages 34 to The principal risk matrix opposite shows how prices: political, legal and regulatory 59 inclusive of this annual Report is we have allocated residual risk ratings across developments: safety risks relating to mining incorporated by reference into this Strategic these principal risks for 2016.
In addition, the operations: and equipment effectiveness.
report and is deemed to form part of this table entitled principal risks and uncertainties Further details as regards these risks are Strategic report.
overleaf sets out a description of each of our provided in the principal risks and principal risks, along with commentary regarding uncertainties table overleaf.
management responsibility, Committee and Board oversight, relevance to strategy, mitigating action and key progress made in 2016 for further information purposes.
We also chart year-on-year trends and continuing impact assessments.
In addition to those risks stated, there may be additional risks unknown to acacia and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial or that relate to the wider gold mining industry, that could turn out to be material to the Group.
In this regard, we are currently assessing the impact of the ban imposed by the Tanzanian Ministry of Energy and Minerals on the export of gold copper concentrate, announced on 3 March 2017, on our business over the short, medium and long term, as we look to obtain clarity on this from the relevant Ministries.
For the time being, we have increased the potential impact of the political, legal and regulatory developments principal risk, when assessed against 2015. additional discussions of certain trends and uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided in other parts of this Strategic report.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 29
