principal risKs and uncertainties We define principal risks as those risks or combination of risks that would threaten Acacias business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
executive board board relevance to change leaderShip team committee overSight progreSS Strategic potential from further riSk reSponSibility reSponSibility mitigation comment made in 2016 pillarS impact 2015 information strategic risks single country risk all of acacias revenue is derived from production at its three operations in Tanzania.
To ensure CEO CFO Head Board acacia assesses a wide range of potential growth Continuing evaluation of High Please continued growth, the Group needs to identify new resources and development opportunities of Discovery opportunities to build on its existing portfolio, particularly corporate development see our opportunities across africa.
through exploration and acquisition targets.
The identification of potential growth opportunities acquisition and development opportunities outside Tanzania Exploration in other territories is required to strengthen the business through geographic diversification in to maximise growth potential and to help mitigate the review.
Continued progression of order to mitigate the effects that significant in-country developments could have on our effects that significant developments in Tanzania could exploration projects in Kenya, operations and business.
financial risks significant changes to commodity prices acacias financial performance is highly dependent on the price of gold and, to a lesser extent, CFO Board acacias strategic objective is to provide maximum exposure Ongoing review of commodity High Please the price of copper and silver.
Fluctuations in the pricing of these commodities, which are largely to the price of gold and we will only implement gold hedging price fluctuations as part of see our financial management controls.
attributable to factors beyond acacias control, will likely have a corresponding impact on acacias in specific short-term scenarios to protect viability of certain Financial financial condition, particularly in the context of rapid pricing fluctuations.
acacia may enter into hedging arrangements for review.
Ongoing review of hedging certain commodity exposures copper, silver and diesel to policies for certain commodities.
attempt to mitigate the impact of pricing fluctuations for Continued cost control and such commodities.
We also monitor our exposure to capital discipline.
commodity price fluctuations as part of financial and treasury planning and controls procedures.
external risks political, legal and regulatory developments acacias exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws and CEO Vice Board acacia management assesses legal and political risks Continuing enhancement of High Please Governmental and regulatory regulations governing various matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
acacias ability to President, as part of its evaluation of potential projects.
It actively see the engagement and dialogue.
conduct its business is dependent on stable and consistent interpretation and application of laws Corporate affairs, monitors legal and political developments in countries Strategic and regulations applicable to mining activities and its operations, particularly in Tanzania.
Changes Head of Legal in which its existing operations are located.
acacia Enhancement of public relations report.
to existing applicable laws and regulations, a more stringent application or interpretation of and Compliance management actively engages in dialogue with Governments campaign in Tanzania.
applicable law and regulation, or inconsistencies and irregularities in the interpretation of applicable and legal policy makers in regions in which it is present to Continued focus on law and regulation by relevant Government authorities could adversely affect the progression of discuss all key legal and regulatory developments applicable sustainability initiatives in the acacias operations and development projects.
acacias operations and financial condition will to its operations.
regions in which we operate also be adversely affected if existing Mineral Development agreements are not honoured by the Tanzanian Government.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, and political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its surrounding countries.
continuity of power supply Power stoppages, fluctuations and disruptions in power supply, particularly electricity supply in COO Board acacia has made a number of investments in power Continued assessment of High Please power improvementprojects.
Tanzania, could result in production stoppages and, as a result of increased dependency on diesel generation capacities at its operations, such that we have see our usage, could increase operating costs.
capacity for the self-generation of power to maintain critical Strategic Continued review ofadditional systems across sites.
We also assess our power supply power stabilisation options report.
sources to introduce cost saving efficiencies where possible.
30 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 strAtegic rePort strategic pillars Key our business increase our people decrease our relationships no change our future new for 2016 executive board board relevance to change leaderShip team committee overSight progreSS Strategic potential from further riSk reSponSibility reSponSibility mitigation comment made in 2016 pillarS impact 2015 information strategic risks single country risk all of acacias revenue is derived from production at its three operations in Tanzania.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 31 principal risKs and uncertainties CONTINuED executive board board relevance to change leaderShip team committee overSight progreSS Strategic potential from further riSk reSponSibility reSponSibility mitigation comment made in 2016 pillarS impact 2015 information operational risks security, trespass and vandalism acacia faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider security-related matters COO Head of Legal EHS&S acacias security management system adopts a range Continuing review of acacias High Please security model and strategy.
relating to trespass, vandalism, illegal mining and incursions and small-scale mining in proximity to and Compliance of measures to protect employees, assets, operations see our its operations and on specific areas covered by the Groups exploration and mining licences, all of and people, including local communities, and is guided Sustainability Ongoing compliance which may have an adverse effect upon Group operations and financial condition.
acacia is also at by the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights programmes and training review.
risk of being held legally responsible for violations of human rights as a result of the activities of our VPSHR.
These measures include the implementation focused on acacia Code of Conduct and anti-Fraud and private security teams or the actions of government police forces in responding to serious securityof security checks and procedures: infrastructure such as anti-Corruption Policies.
related risks in the areas of our operations.
perimeter and asset fencing and surveillance equipment: contracts with private security providers and Memoranda Continuing assessment and enhancements to security of understanding with local police forces with clear and safety controls.
expectations regarding respect for human rights: support for human rights training for private security Ongoing enhancements to personnel and the police: and human rights violation security and human rights training, ongoing reviews of grievance processes.
grievance processes, and ongoing engagements with local police forces.
safety risks relating to mining operations Mining, particularly underground mining, is subject to a number of hazards and risks in the CEO COO EHS&S acacia uses a wide range of safety management systems Continued enhancement High Please see of safety training initiatives.
workplace, such as fall of ground relating to underlying geotechnical risks, potential fires and mobile in order to safeguard safety in the workplace.
We provide the Strategic equipment incidents.
Despite mitigating measures implemented, such incidents may occur, which continuous training and supervision on safety management report and Continued enhancement of in turn may have adverse effects on safety in the workplace.
in order to promote and embed the use of safe safety management systems our Operating operating practices.
and critical risk control and standards for key operational Sustainability safety risks.
Continued safety audits and inspections.
implementation of enhanced operational systems The achievement of acacias production and cost targets is dependent on the use of optimised COO Board as part of ongoing business improvement initiatives, acacia Enhancements made to High Please see mine planning reviews.
operational systems that allow for increased productivity at lower cost levels.
This includes the use is implementing various enhancements to planning and the Strategic of appropriate mine planning techniques with integrated financial modelling.
The use of inefficient operating controls, procedures and frameworks in order to report and Ongoing development of or redundant systems could undermine acacias ability to achieve future production and cost align operating systems and techniques with production integrated mine planning our Operating control objectives.
equipment effectiveness acacias mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuing COO Board Management assesses the critical components of acacias Continuing enhancements to High Please see maintenance and planning availability and reliability of operational infrastructure and operating equipment.
Interruptions operational equipment on a continuous basis.
In addition, the Strategic practices.
or inefficiencies in the use of operating equipment, for example through equipment failure or management continues to review opportunities to enhance report and disruption or through poor utilisation or maintenance practices, can undermine equipment maintenance systems and equipment utilisation practices Continuing review of equipment our Operating utilisation levels and thereby negatively impact productivity levels.
in order to enhance equipment productivity levels.
environmental hazards and rehabilitation acacias operations are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and COO EHS&S acacia uses a number of environmental management Enhancements to acacias High Please see chemicals used in its extraction and production methods.
acacia may be liable for losses and costs systems and controls across its business and operations to environmental strategy.
our Strategic provide for appropriate environmental practices, including associated with environmental hazards at its operations, have its licences and permits withdrawn or report and Enhancements to acacias the adoption of specific environmental management plans suspended as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and our Operating environmental management for each of our operations and the use of environmental and remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents relating to its operations, plans.
and social impact assessments for potential projects.
Sustainability Continued regular also monitors mining and operational activities against key reviews.
environmental audits and international standards, such as the International Cyanide inspections.
Management Code, and assesses remediation and Ongoing development of rehabilitation costs on an annual basis.
32 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 strAtegic rePort strategic pillars Key our business increase our people decrease our relationships no change our future new for 2016 executive board board relevance to change leaderShip team committee overSight progreSS Strategic potential from further riSk reSponSibility reSponSibility mitigation comment made in 2016 pillarS impact 2015 information operational risks security, trespass and vandalism acacia faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider security-related matters COO Head of Legal EHS&S acacias security management system adopts a range Continuing review of acacias High Please security model and strategy.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 33
