Strategic Report: Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Board, with support from the Group Risk Committee and the Group Risk Department, undertakes a regular and robust assessment of the principal risks.
These risks have been summarised as those which would threaten its business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency.
The table below sets out the principal risks which Admiral has identified through its Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
The impact of those risks and actions taken to mitigate them are explained below.
Insurance Risk Reserving Risk in UK and International Insurance Admiral is exposed to reserving risk through its underwriting of motor and household insurance policies.
Claims reserves in the financial statements may prove inadequate to cover the ultimate cost of earned claims which are by nature uncertain.
This is a particular risk for motor insurance liabilities, where the amount payable for bodily injury claims particularly large claims can change significantly during the lifetime of the claim as a result of external risks such as changes in Ogden rates and impacts of increased levels of Periodical Payment Orders.
Impact Mitigating factors Adverse run-off leading to higher claims Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and continues to hold a material margin in its financial costs in the financial statements.
statement claims reserves above actuarially determined best estimates.
PPO claims are capital intensive owing Best estimate reserves are estimated both internally and externally by an independent actuary.
to increased uncertainty of the cost of For very large claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates a portion significant claims over a longer term.
Admiral holds a margin in booked reserves to cover changes impacting claims.
Furthermore, Admiral continues to hold an additional margin in its reserves in excess of the projected ultimate outcomes to cover other potential claim shocks.
Regular reviews of both settled and potential PPO cases are undertaken by the Claims and Actuarial teams, with independent Actuarial opinions provided as part of the external reserving analysis.
Admirals investment portfolio is the result of a structured, disciplined and transparent investment process which considers settled and potential future PPOs.
Premium Risk and Catastrophe Risk The Group is exposed to the risk that claims cost on future business is higher than allowed for in the premiums charged to customers.
The group is exposed to the risk of increased claims and reduced business volumes following both a UK and European recession.
Catastrophe Risk: Admiral is exposed to the risk of high losses due to the occurrence of man-made catastrophes or natural weather events.
Impact Mitigating factors Higher claims costs and loss ratios, resulting There are a number of aspects which contribute to Admirals strong UK underwriting in reduced profits or underwriting losses.
results, including: A large flood or windstorm causes extensive Experienced and focused senior management and teams in key business areas including property damage both motor and household pricing and claims management: to a significant proportion of the portfolio, Highly data-driven and analytical approach to regular monitoring of claims and leading to a large total claims cost in relation to underwriting performance: the event.
Capability to identify and resolve underperformance promptly through changes to key performance drivers, particularly pricing: and Continuous appraisal of and investment in staff, systems and processes.
Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact of very large individual or catastrophe event claims.
40 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Reduced availability of co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements Admiral uses proportional co-insurance and reinsurance across its insurance businesses to reduce its own capital needs and increase return on the capital it does hold and to mitigate the cost and risk of establishing new operations.
There is a risk that support will not be available in the future if the results and or future prospects of either the UK business or more realistically one or more of the newer operations are not satisfactory to the coand or reinsurers.
Impact Mitigating factors A potential need to raise additional capital Admiral mitigates the risk to its reinsurance arrangements by ensuring that it has a diverse to support an increased underwriting share.
range of financially secure partners.
This could be in the form of equity or debt.
Admiral continues to enjoy a long term relationship with one of the worlds largest Return on capital might reduce compared reinsurers, Munich Re, which has supported Admiral since 2000. to current levels.
Admiral also has relationships with a number of other reinsurers.
As well as UK Motor, long term arrangements are also in place for UK Household and International businesses.
Group Risk Erosion of competitive advantage in UK Car Insurance Admiral typically maintains a significant combined ratio advantage over the UK market.
This advantage and or the level of underwriting profit and associated profit commission could be eroded.
This risk could be exacerbated by irrational competitor pricing and or new technologies used within the insurance market.
It may arise from new or existing competitors.
Impact Mitigating factors A worse UK Car Insurance result and lower return Admirals focus remains on the wide range of factors that contribute to Admirals combined ratio on capital employed.
outperformance of the UK market.
Some are set out earlier in the Strategic Report, but in addition: A sustained and uncorrected erosion of competitive Track record of innovation and ability to react quickly to market conditions and developments: and advantage could affect the ability of Admiral to Keen focus on maintaining a low-cost infrastructure and efficient acquisition costs.
extend its reinsurance arrangements, which might in turn require Admiral to hold more capital.
Failure of geographic and or product expansion Admiral continues to develop the UK household and overseas operations.
One or more of the operations could fail to become a sustainable, profitable long term business.
Product expansion into new areas could lead to unprofitable business and increased regulatory risk.
Growth in business plans exceeds the scale of infrastructure of the operation.
Impact Mitigating factors Higher than planned losses and potentially Admirals approach to expansion and product development remains conservative, applying the closure costs and distraction of key management.
test and learn philosophy that has proven successful for previous operations.
International insurance businesses have generally executed cautious launch strategies and are all backed by A collective failure of these businesses proportional reinsurance support which provides substantial mitigation against start-up losses in would threaten Admirals objective to the early years.
diversify its earnings by expanding into new markets and products.
New price comparison businesses have aligned their marketing investment with the extent of improvement in key performance indicators such as average cost per quote and conversion ratio.
The Group also accepts partial disposals of equity to share start-up losses with partners.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess the suitability of the infrastructure and management structure in place for Admirals new UK and international operations.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Strategic Report: Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Group Risk continued Potential diminution of Other Revenue Admiral earns other revenue from a portfolio of products and other sources.
The level of this revenue could diminish due to regulatory or legal changes, customer behaviour or market forces.
Impact Mitigating factors Lower profits from insurance operations Admiral continuously assesses the value to its customer of the products it offers, and makes and lower return on capital.
changes to ensure the products continue to meet customer needs and offer good value.
Admiral seeks to minimise reliance on any single source by earning revenue from a range of products.
This would mitigate the impact of a regulatory change which might affect a particular product or income stream.
Competition in UK Price Comparison Admiral is dependent on the four main UK price comparison websites as an important source of new business and growth.
Growth in this distribution channel could slow, cease or reverse, or Admiral could lose one or more of the websites as a source of customers.
Impact Mitigating factors A potentially material reduction in UK Car Admirals ownership of Confused.
com one of the leading UK price comparison websites which Insurance new business volumes.
operates independently of the UK Car Insurance business helps to mitigate the risk of overreliance on this distribution channel.
com of higher levels of competition in the price comparison market, Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of other price comparison businesses and either through the aggressive activities of existing therefore it is not considered probable that a material source of new business would be lost.
players or the entry of significant new participants The management of Confused.
com maintain a very keen awareness of the risks of would be to lower profits.
However, a more competitive market might benefit the car insurance business through lower acquisition costs.
Legal and Regulatory Risk Failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements and or changes.
Unexpected regulatory changes are introduced.
Impact Mitigating factors Exposure to regulatory intervention, Mitigated by regular review of the Groups compliance with current and proposed requirements censure and or enforcement action including the General Data Protection Regulation and interaction with regulators by Executive through fines and other sanctions.
There is investment in resources to prepare for a Partial Internal Model application, which is expected to be made during 2017.
The project will have regular progress updates with the Board and Regulators.
Counterparty Risk Admiral is primarily exposed to credit risk in the form of a default of reinsurer: b failure of banking or investment counterparty.
One or more counterparties suffer significant losses leading to a credit default.
Impact Mitigating factors Additional capital may need to be raised as a Admiral only conducts business with reinsurers of appropriate financial strength.
In addition, most result of a major credit event, dependent on reinsurance contracts are operated on a funds-withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit its nature and severity.
risk, as Admiral holds the cash received as collateral.
Admiral would also need to ensure that it Concentrations of credit risk are managed by investing in liquidity funds which invest in a wide range continues to have sufficient liquid assets to of short duration, high quality securities.
Cash balances and deposits are placed only with highly meet its claims and other liabilities as they rated credit institutions.
Some long term investments are held in Government bonds to further fell due.
mitigate the exposure to credit risk.
Admiral considers counterparty exposure frequently and in significant detail, and has in place appropriate triggers and limits, to mitigate exposure to individual investment counterparties.
42 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Market Risk Market risk arises as a result of fluctuations in the value of market prices of investment assets, liabilities, or the income from our investment portfolio.
Impact Mitigating factors Market volatility notably very significant The Groups low appetite for market risk results in an investment strategy that focuses on capital reductions in risk free interest rates can preservation, low volatility of returns and strong liquidity.
The majority of the portfolio is invested adversely impact the Groups solvency due to in high quality fixed income and other debt securities, and money market funds in order to achieve an increased regulatory valuation of claims these objectives.
liabilities, in particular in relation to longer The Groups mitigation for interest rate risk resulting from long duration PPO liabilities includes a dated potential PPO claims.
comprehensive level of reinsurance cover and continuing focus on strategies to ensure that the risks relating to both assets and liabilities are appropriately matched.
The Group has relatively low exposure to net assets and liabilities in currencies other than pounds sterling.
Operational Risk People, processes, business continuity Operational Risk arises within all areas of the business.
The principal categories of operational risk for Admiral are: People Processes IT Systems Information Security Business Continuity Customer Outcomes Impact Mitigating factors The risk of reductions in earnings and or We aim to attract, retain and motivate quality staff to deliver quality customer service and value, through financial or reputational loss, achieve business objectives.
from inadequate or failed internal processes Succession planning is based on targeted recruitment, identifying potential leaders through and systems, or from people related or internal development, talent management and retention processes.
Internal controls are in place and monitored to mitigate the risk and the control framework is In particular: regularly reviewed.
Potential customer detriment and or The internal audit function has an agreed cycle of testing of the adequacy and effectiveness potential regulatory censure of controls.
enforcement and or reputational Regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive Management and damage as a result of Admirals action.
Risk to Admiral occurs through the losses that Strong project governance and oversight of new systems implementations with external specialist could occur if the internal control framework review and assurance where required.
to manage these business processes fails.
Admiral continues to invest in its Security Programme in order to mitigate Information Security risks.
Availability of systems & data Within IT there is a major incident team which is tasked with maintaining system availability, with Integrity of data business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place.
Confidentiality of data Data is backed up to allow for its recovery in the event of corruption.
Admiral operates the three lines of defence model for overseeing its products, processes and service.
At each stage of the customer journey customer outcomes are monitored, managed and reported in order to mitigate customer detriment.
Admiral purchases a range of insurance covers to mitigate the impact of a number of operational risks.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Stevens, CBE Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2017 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
