STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT IDENTIFYING, EVALUATING AND MANAGING RISK RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH RISK CONTROL ASSURANCE The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management Internal audit work is undertaken by an independent and internal control systems and for reviewing their organisation who develop an annual internal audit plan effectiveness, supported by the Audit Committee and having reviewed the Groups risk register and following the Risk Committee.
A risk management framework is discussions with the external auditors, management and in place which sets out the ongoing processes for the members of the Audit Committee.
identification, assessment and management of risks, and for their ongoing monitoring and review.
The Board has During the year the Audit Committee has reviewed defined its risk appetite in a number of key areas for the reports covering the internal audit work.
This has business this sets out the relative level of risk that the included assessment of the general control environment, Group is prepared to seek or accept in the pursuit of its identification of any control weaknesses and strategic objectives.
The aim is to ensure that the risks quantification of any associated risk, together with 42 taken by the Group fall within its defined risk appetite.
a review of the status of mitigating actions.
The Audit Committee has also received reports from management Effective risk management is essential to enable us in relation to specific risk items together with reports to achieve our operational and strategic objectives from external auditors, who consider controls to the and deliver long-term value creation.
During the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth reporting period we have continued to focus on and fairness of the financial statements.
embedding a culture of risk management throughout the organisation which will contribute towards successful The Groups internal control and risk management strategy execution.
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can ROBUST RISK ASSESSMENT provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance The risk management framework sets out a systematic against material misstatement or loss.
approach to risk management which is designed to identify risks to the business, regardless of source.
Once The report of the Audit Committee can be found on identified, risks are assessed according to the likelihood page 58. and impact of the risk occurring and an appropriate risk response is determined in line with the Groups risk PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES appetite.
Risks are re-assessed based on the strength of The Board has carried out a robust, systematic the mitigating controls implemented.
The implementation assessment of the principal risks facing the Group of risk mitigation plans is subject to ongoing monitoring during the period, including those which would threaten and review.
A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure that a its business model, future performance, solvency or consistent approach is taken across the business at both liquidity.
The principal risks as determined by the Board a corporate and functional level.
This risk assessment are listed in the table below, together with corresponding and review process is documented in the appropriate mitigating actions.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive risk register.
The Groups risk register is reviewed list of all risks and uncertainties that may arise.
quarterly by the Risk Committee and by the Board and the Audit Committee twice each year.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUP Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Changes in consumer Consumers may decide The Group offers a broad range of branded products across a range of flavours, preferences, perception to purchase and consume subcategories and markets which offer choice to the end consumer.
or purchasing behaviour alternative brands or spend less on soft drinks.
Changing consumer attitudes and behaviours are monitored on an ongoing basis and inform our brand plans and new product development.
Changing consumer attitudes Consumers may decide to Externally, we are responding as a soft drinks industry to the increased focus of the towards sugar government purchase and consume media and government on sugar through the British Soft Drinks Association.
intervention on sugar alternative brands or spend less on soft drinks.
The Group offers a broad range of branded products, many of which are low sugar 43 or sugar free.
We continue to progress reformulation projects to reduce sugar levels in our products.
Our new product development activity is focused on development of lower calorie products and our marketing programmes incorporate our lower calorie choices.
Adverse publicity in relation Adverse publicity in relation Our risk management process is designed to identify and monitor events that may to the soft drinks industry, the to the soft drinks industry, the impact the Group as a result of adverse publicity and to ensure that controls are in Group or its brands Group or its brands could have place to manage these risks.
an adverse impact on the Groups reputation, consumer We liaise with relevant industry bodies who work with government and policy makers.
consumption patterns, sales and operating profits.
Nutritional information is shown on all of our products and we have signed up to the UK Governments front-of-pack nutritional labelling scheme.
Processes are in place to ensure compliance with health and safety legislation and ethical working standards and these are regularly reviewed by the Board and management committee.
Quality standards are well defined, implemented and monitored.
A Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is in place, with a clearly defined and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
The Group maintains and develops ISO 9001 and 14001 systems and BRC standards which are subject to annual external audits, with any non-conformances addressed in a timely manner.
Failure to maintain customer Failure to maintain appropriate The Group offers a broad range of brands that it manufactures and distributes relationships or take account of customer relationships or a through a variety of trade channels and customers.
Performance is monitored closely changing market dynamics reduction in the customer base by the Board and management committee by trade channel and customer as could have an adverse impact appropriate.
This includes monitoring of metrics which review brand equity on the Groups sales and strength, financial and operational performance.
The Group focuses on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity.
We work closely in partnership with our customers on an ongoing basis.
Members of the senior management team meet with key customers throughout the year.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUP CONTINUED Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Inability to protect the Groups Failure to protect the Groups The Group invests considerable effort in proactively protecting its intellectual intellectual property rights intellectual property rights could property rights, for example through trademark and design registrations and vigorous result in a loss of brand value.
legal enforcement as and when required.
Failure of the Groups A catastrophic failure of the Assets within the Group are proactively managed and maintained.
Risk assessments operational infrastructure Groups major production or are carried out on a regular basis and appropriate actions taken.
Robust business distribution facilities could lead continuity plans are in place and are regularly tested.
to a sustained loss in capacity or capability.
44 Loss of continuity of supply The loss of continuity of supply There is a robust supplier selection process in place.
Supplier performance is of major raw materials of major raw material ingredients monitored on an ongoing basis and audits are undertaken for major suppliers.
and or packaging materials Multiple sources of supply are sourced wherever possible.
Commodity risks are could impact our ability to reviewed and managed by the procurement team and reviewed by the Treasury and manufacture, with an adverse Commodity Committee.
Contingency measures are in place and are tested regularly.
impact on the Groups sales and operating profits.
Loss of product integrity A loss of product integrity in Appropriate risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis and robust quality the manufacturing supply chain controls and processes are in place to maintain the high quality of our products.
could lead to a product Product recall procedures are tested regularly.
Failure of critical IT systems A failure of critical IT systems IT assets within the Group are proactively managed and procedures exist that could result in a loss of key support rapid and clean recovery.
Robust business continuity plans and contingency systems, business interruption, measures are in place and are regularly tested.
lost sales or lost production.
Financial Risks The Groups activities expose it Our underlying objective is to secure budgeted exchange rates and thereby reduce to a variety of financial risks which the volatility through our cost of goods.
Financial risks are reviewed and managed include market risk including by the Treasury and Commodity Committee, which seeks to minimise adverse effects medium term movements in on the Groups financial performance through hedging known currency exposures exchange rates, interest rate risk throughout the year.
and commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups finance team reviews cash flow forecasts throughout the year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly.
The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits offered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts.
The Groups financial control environment is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Internal audits focus is to work with and challenge management to ensure an appropriate control environment is maintained.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate account of the Groups current position, the Groups Governance Code 2014, the directors have assessed experience of managing adverse conditions in the past the viability of the Company over a three year period and the mitigating actions available to the business.
to January 2019, taking account of the Groups current A reverse stress test was also performed, allowing the position and the Groups principal risks, as detailed in Board to assess scenarios and circumstances that would the Strategic Report.
Based on this assessment, the render its business model unviable and enabling the directors have a reasonable expectation that the identification of potential business vulnerabilities and the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet development of appropriate mitigating actions.
its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to January 2019.
The Board selected the period of three years as an 45 appropriate period for the Companys viability statement In making this statement, the directors have considered for the following reasons: the resilience of the Group in severe but plausible The Company operates on a three year business scenarios, taking account of its current position and cycle: and prospects, the principal risks facing the business and how Management currently use three year forecasts as these are managed.
This assessment has considered the part of the business planning process and capital potential impact of these risks on the Companys investment cycle.
business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the three year period.
The following three principal risks were selected for enhanced stress testing: changing consumer preferences, loss of product integrity and major raw material supply disruption.
These are the principal risks assessed to have the highest probability of occurrence or the most severe impact: they were stress tested both individually and in combination, taking A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
