52 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Risk factors that could affect business performance APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK Risks Following on from the work completed in 2015 to revise and refresh our approach to risk management, this year we The Group recognises the importance have focused on embedding the improved process.
Our risk ofidentifying and actively managing the management framework delivers an effective and efficient approach to the management of risk, whilst making a positive financial and non-financial risks facing contribution to effective decision-making and business growth.
We want our people to feel The Groups Register of Principal Risks is the foundation empowered to take advantage of attractive uponwhichthe Groups risk management process is built.
opportunities, yet we want them to do so This iscompiled based upon registers of principal risks held withinourtwo Business Units and our Central Functions.
within the risk appetite set by the Board.
A GroupRisk function has been established to facilitate the Itisimportant that we have in place a robust, effective and consistent implementation of the risk framework repeatable risk management framework and a GroupRisk Committee was established during the year.
The Groups risk appetite has been reviewed and refreshed by the Group Risk Committee during 2016 and approved by the Board.
We continue to monitor management of risk against this appetite and will review our risk appetite annually.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK, ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES PAGES 55 TO 60 RISK APPETITE The Group has financial targets in place and is focused on growing the business: we are willing to accept higher levels of risk where we deem the likelihood of success to be achievable and the level of reward commensurate but within clear boundaries as set by theExecutive and approved by the Board.
Risk appetite has been articulated for each of the risk categories in the Risk Categorisation Model and has been communicated tomanagement to guide the consideration as to whether further risk mitigation activities are required for specic risks identied.
FOCUS DURING THE YEAR In 2016 we focused our risk management efforts on further embedding the framework into the business.
Risk ownership has improved and actions are being taken to increase the effectiveness of preventative measures and mitigating activities.
BREXIT As with other businesses, we are closely following developments relating to Brexit, although our business in the UK and Europe makes up a relatively small part of the Group.
A weaker Pound has increased the Sterling value of our revenue and assets, the majority of which are denominated in US Dollars.
The Sterling values of our debt and borrowing facilities have increased by similar amounts, so our debt headroom has remained steady.
More broadly, we believe it is too early to determine the impact of the UK leaving the European Union on the Groups activities, although we donotexpect this to have a material impact on the Group.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 53 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 1.
Assess 1 2 3 4 IDENTIFY PRIORITISE ASSESS MONITOR Identify the risk events Prioritise risks based on Assess each risk to determine Monitor each risk using or missed opportunities the impact to the business whether further actions relevant KPIs, where whichcouldhave a material shouldthey occur and the arerequired to effectively availableandthrough impact on the ability likelihood of occurrence manage the risk to within the regular management ofAggreko tomeet its bothbefore and after Groups risk appetite.
consideration of control, necessary, further actions design andoperation.
arecaptured and tracked Impact scoring is determined to completion.
by consideringseveral factors: Financial: HSE: Operational:Reputational: and Regulatory.
RISK CATEGORISATION MODEL Any risk identied within the business can be categorised within the following model.
The model assists with theidentication and consolidation process and isthebasis for how we articulate our risk appetite.
Strategic Risk Operational Risk Hazard Risk Compliance Risk Financial Risk Risks related to Risks arising from people, Risks related to the Risks related to Risks which might impact theCompanys processes and systems wellbeingof our people non-compliance upon our ability to meet abilitytodeliver on impacting upon efficient andthe wider stakeholders withgovernmentand ournancial expectations businesspriorities.
People, Organisation Asset Life Cycle Health & Safety Ethics FX and Interest & Culture Rate Volatility Service Delivery Security Corporate Governance Mergers & Acquisitions Liquidity and Funding Supply Chain Environment Laws and Regulations Technology Credit Risk Contractual Market Dynamics Tax Information Technology Financial Management Information Security and Control 54 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW KEY TO RISK SUMMARY TABLE Risk summary Customer Technology efficiency People Primary strategic Primary KPIs Risk area affected impacted Change in 2016 STRATEGIC RISK RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANYS ABILITY TO DELIVER ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Challenging market Revenue growth Market conditions conditions reduce Rental Solutions Margins volumeand profitability Returns in our Rental Solutions business.
Capital efficiency Changes in market Fleet size Market dynamics dynamics result in major and composition Power Solutions contracts maturing without Capital efficiency equivalent replacement.
Failure to deliver the Revenue growth Change management expected benets relating to our Margins fromourstrategic priorities.
strategicpriorities Returns Failure to attract, retain and Employee satisfaction Talent management develop keyemployees.
Ineffective new product Fleet size and composition Technology market introduction marketintroduction Capital efficiency hindersgrowth.
Revenue growth OPERATIONAL RISK RISKS ARISING FROM PEOPLE, PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS IMPACTING UPON EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE OPERATIONS A cyber security breach Revenue growth Cyber Security leads to a loss of data, a Customer loyalty loss of data integrity or a Earnings per share disruption to operations.
HAZARD RISK RISKS RELATED TO THE WELLBEING OF OUR PEOPLE AND THE WIDER STAKEHOLDERS WITH WHOM WE INTERACT A security incident occurs Fleet size and composition Security which affects our people, Safety our assets or our operations.
Revenue growth A health and safety Safety Health & Safety incidentoccurs which results in serious illness, injury or death.
An environmental incident Customer loyalty Environment occurs due to a failure in Revenue growth project execution.
Safety Employee turnover COMPLIANCE RISK RISKS RELATED TO NON-COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE JURISDICTIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE An employee or person Customer loyalty Failure to conduct acting on our behalf makes business dealings Revenue growth a payment which is or is withintegrity Operating profit margin perceived to beabribe.
and honesty FINANCIAL RISK RISKS WHICH MIGHT IMPACT UPON OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR FINANCIAL EXPECTATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS Unanticipated tax liabilities Earnings per share Taxation in developing countries.
Non-payment by customers Capital efficiency Failure to collect or the seizure ofassets.
payments or to Margins recover assets Returns Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 55 Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Aggreko, including those which would threaten our business model, our future performance, and our solvency andliquidity.
These are as set out over the following pages.
This list is not exhaustive: our operations are largeand geographically diverse and the list might change, as something thatseems immaterial today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
The order in which they are presented is aligned to our risk categorisation model.
STRATEGIC MARKET CONDITIONS RENTAL SOLUTIONS EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: BRUCE POOL, PRESIDENT RENTAL SOLUTIONS Risk Background and impact Mitigation Challenging market North America is the largest Area in Rental Solutions Implementation of our strategic priorities, including conditions reduce volume and Oil & Gas and Petrochemical & Rening are its a revised business model for the Rental Solutions and profitability inour largest market sectors, so any change in market business aligned to our key sectors and development RentalSolutions business.
conditions for these sectors has a significant impact ofour sales force capabilities.
Reorganisation of our business in North America including realignment of the sales force around customer sectors to improve diversication.
Development of our Temperature Control business including acquisitions in this area help to offset slowergrowth in power.
Global footprint and eet homogeneity allows ustomove eet between businesses.
In-house manufacturing of equipment enables us to quickly adjust capital expenditure to react to downturns.
Market monitoring and analysis using external data where appropriate to reect economic conditions infuture forecasts.
Changes during 2016: As noted in our commentary on performance in the Rental Solutions business on page 41, this risk caused a significant impact in 2016.
The lower oil price reduced the demand for temporary power from customers in the Oil & Gas sectors, particularly in the North American market.
In future we anticipate that any future impact would be lower as these conditions have been factored into our future forecasts.
The higher theoil price, the lower we expect the impact of this risk to be.
Read more about Rental Solutions performance on page 41.
MARKET DYNAMICS POWER SOLUTIONS EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: NICOLAS FOURNIER, MANAGING DIRECTOR POWER SOLUTIONS Changes in market dynamics A change in market dynamics could have a material As part of the change programme running within the resultinmajor contracts effect on revenues and profit.
business, there are specic initiatives to improve the maturing without equivalent sales capability within the Power Solutions business The impact of low commodity priceson the economies replacement.
whilst reducing the overall cost base to allow us to of developing countries has reducedtheir capacity remain competitive.
Technology improvements make our offering Customer buying power has increased as a result more competitive as we improve fuel efficiency ofincreased competition for power projects.
and provide alternative fuel technology allowing ustoreduce the overall cost of energy.
Project pipeline and eet utilisation form a part ofthemonthly business reviews.
Diverse customer base to minimise exposure toanysingle geography.
Changes during 2016: We have been successful in signing extensions in Bangladesh and Venezuela during 2016.
In addition, we have taken on 1,057MW of new orders over the course of 2016.
The successful implementation of our business priorities will stand us in good stead to continue to adequately mitigate this risk area.
In January 2017, we announced that the Government of Argentina had extended 174MW of our xed site contracts originally 180MW until 31 December 2017.
214MW of our standby contracts originally 270MW were also extended until the end of February or March 2017.
However, the outlook for our contracts in Argentina remains uncertain.
Read more about Power Solutions performance on page 42.
56 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties continued STRATEGIC CONTINUED CHANGE MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: TOM ARMSTRONG, GROUP CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER & PROGRAMME DIRECTOR Risk Background and impact Mitigation Failure to deliver the The market environment in which we operate has The programme continues to have senior leadership expectedbenets from become more challenging.
In recognition of a need to focus and sponsorship.
evolve, we have outlined a number of business initiatives A programme management ofce is in place which we are undertaking in order to better position the with executive management leadership providing Group for thefuture.
challenge, assurance and risk oversight.
If we do not successfully execute these in a timely and Formal project management disciplines, appropriate sustainable manner, it could result in a material impact resourcing and management reporting of each on projected future revenue and profit.
Changes during 2016: We have made good progress towards delivery of the business initiatives identied previously and have good governance inplaceto ensure the initiatives are fully delivered.
However, we recognise the criticality of the phase we are in, hence the heightened risk identied.
Read more about Strategic Priorities on page 27.
TALENT MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: ANNA FILIPOPOULOS, GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR Failure to attract, retain and Aggreko knows that it is people who make the Talent management review which covers developkey employees.
difference between great performance and mediocre the management population and fosters performance.
This is true at all levels within the business.
Succession planning exercise completed during 2016.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract the right people, establish them in their roles and manage their We reward people well for good performance and development.
have in place aLong-term Incentive Plan.
Failure to do so could result in loss of productivity and intellectual capital, increased recruitment costs and lower staff morale.
Changes during 2016: Group staff turnover excluding redundancies is lower than last year.
However, staff turnover has increased in a couple of key areasof the business and we are taking action to address this.
During 2016, we continued with our plans to complete a comprehensive talent management and succession planning review and have taken steps to address opportunities for improvement which the review identied.
Read more about People on page 23.
TECHNOLOGY MARKET INTRODUCTION EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: NICOLAS FOURNIER, MANAGING DIRECTOR POWER SOLUTIONS Ineffective new product New product development and its introduction into Rigorous new product introduction process development and market our eet is one of our key business initiatives.
We are operating to identify and resolve any product introduction hinders growth.
continuing to evolve our product offering toinclude: performance issues prior to roll out.
engineswith greater fuel efficiency e. g. NextGeneration Market intelligence gathered and utilised to Gas : alternative fuel technology e. g. Heavy Fuel Oil : and formulate a marketing strategy for new products.
renewable technology e. g. Diesel Solar hybrid.
Training delivered to the sales team on the product, To introduce new products effectively we need to market opportunities and commercial risks ensure that we understand the markets where there associated with new technology.
In addition, we need to develop Sales champions identied for new technology the appropriate expertise to successfully commission ineach region.
and operate our eet, whilst ensuring that the Monitoring of pipeline conducted on a monthly basis.
technical capability ofour sales teams is appropriate toadequately manage customer expectations.
Changes during 2016: 2016 saw considerable focus on and investment in the development of our HFO and NGG offerings which are due to be introduced to the market in 2017.
Read more about the technology developments taking place as part of our Strategic Priorities on page 28.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 57 OPERATIONAL CYBER SECURITY EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: TOM ARMSTRONG, GROUP CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER & PROGRAMME DIRECTOR Risk Background and impact Mitigation A cyber security incident A cyber security incident may be caused by an external IT security lead appointed, responsible for the leadsto aloss of data, a loss attack, internal attack or by user error.
ofdata integrity or a disruption A cyber security forum has been formed to monitor Such an incident may lead to the loss of commercially to operations.
relevant risks and controls in this area.
sensitive data, a loss of data integrity within our systems orthe loss of financial assetsthrough fraud.
Cyber security health check review completed by athird-party expert with results implemented A successful cyber attack on our systems could also through the security plan.
result in us not being able to deliver service to our Suite of security technology in place including customers, As a result, we could suffer reputational antivirus and malware software, rewalls, email damage, revenueloss and financial penalties.
Monthly monitoring and regular review of user privileges.
Changes during 2016: The incidence of cyber security breaches continues to increase globally.
We have strengthened our incident response capabilities through the retention of a third-party provider.
Our cyber security forum is now in place and is overseeing several improvement initiatives in this area.
HAZARD SECURITY EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CHRIS WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER A security incident occurs The risk that a security incident occurs which adversely The Group Security team under the direction of whichaffects our people, impacts upon the wellbeing of our people, the security the Group Head of Security provides guidance and assets, orour operations.
of our assets, affects ourreputation or our ability to direction on the appropriate security requirements generate revenue.
The Group Security team monitors the security environments in the countries in which we operate and ensures that the appropriate risk mitigation measures are in place.
Employees have access to information on what is required for them to be adequately equipped for thesecurity environment in which they operate.
The Group Security team monitors alerts from independent security information providers on anyincidents which may affect our staff.
Security risks are monitored closely by the Executive management team with monthly briengs provided by the Head of Security.
Specic security plans are created for locations inHigh Risk Areas.
In some cases, insurance against losses has been procured.
Changes during 2016: The overall level of risk has not materially changed in the year, however, we continued to face specic security challenges inIraq, Libya, Venezuela and Yemen.
In addition, we are cognisant of the increased threat from terrorism across our areas of operations.
58 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties continued HAZARD CONTINUED HEALTH & SAFETY EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CHRIS WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Risk Background and impact Mitigation A health and safety incident We have a number of staff operating in high risk We have a proactive operational culture with health occurswhich results in serious locations.
Aside from those security considerations, and safety at the top of our agenda.
Our global policy illness, injury or death.
issues facing personnel include: poor road infrastructure, has been communicated across the organisation in a lack of availability of healthcare and exposure to all languages.
We also operate within high risk HSE management system including KPIs which are customer sites such as offshore oil and wind platforms reviewed by the Board on aregular basis.
We work very closely with our customers, employees Operationally, the business of the Group involves and health and safety authorities, to evaluate transporting, installing and operating large amounts and assess health and safety risks to ensure that ofheavy equipment, which produces lethal voltages health and safety procedures are developed and orvery high pressure air and involves the use of millions rigorously followed.
All of these could cause serious damage Where health matters are of concern, we implement to our people andthird parties if not handled with stringent testing procedures and restrict access to appropriate caution.
Comprehensive site induction materials are provided to all visitors and staff rotating into anew country.
Defensive driving training is provided in high risk countries whilst journey management is an important part of our HSE system.
Our equipment is subject to rigorous testing prior toitbeing utilised.
Comprehensive training materials are compiled and communicated to relevant staff.
Changes during 2016: No material changes in 2016.
We have rolled out an online risk identication tool which allows tracking of health and safety risks andincidents to allow improvements to be made.
As our new eet is developed, risk assessments have been conducted in order to identify any specic health and safety considerations.
Read more about Health and Safety on page 66.
ENVIRONMENT EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CHRIS WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER An environmental incident We are committed to exploring new ways of reducing Equipment designed to minimise the risk of occurs due to a failure in our impact on the environment by reducing emissions uid spillage and to quickly alert operators when project execution.
We comply with all air quality aspillagemay have occurred.
regulatory requirements for emissions and have a All equipment is subject to regular review technology roadmap, looking at bio-fuels, fuelcells and maintenance.
Aggreko and its customers handle a HSE representatives monitor spill levels and identify considerable quantity of diesel fuel on a daily basis.
risk areas in order that proactive preventative steps Despite our bestefforts, there remains a possibility can be taken.
that accidentalfuel spills could occur with a resultant environmental impact.
Spill prevention procedures are inplace in all Aggrekosites where large quantities of fuel are stored.
This may be caused by an equipment failure or Following any spillage, an incident report is compiled humanerror.
and any learnings communicated across the Group.
We have operated well within our target during 2016 and have plans in place to further improve ourequipment design and spill response plans.
Read more about Environmental Management on page 66.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 59 COMPLIANCE FAILURE TO CONDUCT BUSINESS DEALINGS WITH INTEGRITY ANDHONESTY EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: PETER KENNERLEY, GROUP LEGAL DIRECTOR & COMPANY SECRETARY Risk Background and impact Mitigation An employee or person The scale and global nature of much of our business Anti-bribery and corruption framework designed acting on our behalf makes exposes us to risks of unethical behaviour.
inline with UK Government guidance and a payment which is or is implemented across the Group.
This risk is particularly relevant due to the following perceived to be a bribe.
Ethics policy in place with which employees, factors: agentsand sales consultants are required to comply.
We operate in several countries with perceived Training of employees and third-party sales highlevels of corruption: consultants on anti-bribery and corruption policies We participate in tenders for highvalue contracts and procedures.
involving public procurement: and Board-level leadership through our Ethics Committee which oversees the compliance policies and Our business model involves the use of third-party procedures and aims to foster a culture of integrity sales consultants agents in some countries where and honesty in all of our business dealings.
wedo not have apermanent presence.
Due diligence undertaken on sales consultants We are aware of the potential reputational and and agents.
Once appointed we regularly monitor nancialimpact of such behaviour and we their performance, audit payments and refresh have inplacea robustcompliance programme duediligence at least every two years.
tomitigateour exposure to this risk.
Head of Compliance and Internal Audit monitor compliance with policy requirements in this area.
An independent whistle-blowing system is in place which allows employees to report concerns condentially and anonymously.
All reports received are fully investigated.
Changes during 2016: We have continued to strengthen our compliance programme in 2016 having delivered online training toallemployees and face-to-face training with the senior management teams and completed the roll out of the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Read more about Ethics and Integrity on page 69.
60 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties continued FINANCIAL TAXATION EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CAROLE CRAN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Risk Background and impact Mitigation Unanticipated tax liabilities Due to Aggrekos extensive geographic footprint we are Group Tax Director supported by regional tax teams indeveloping countries.
exposed to tax risk as follows: across the business.
Local external tax advisers are consulted before and We fail to understand our responsibilities with subsequent to entry into a new jurisdiction to allow respect to registration, tax lings and or the extent usto identify specic tax customs requirements ofour liabilities.
andtoappropriately manage our tax affairs.
We may be subject to taxation that we did not The Group Tax team is involved in the review anticipate when we began working in some of all proposals which would involve operating developing countries where tax regimes may be inanew country.
subject to frequent change and there is a lack ofprecedent or guidance.
Regular monitoring of compliance obligations within the countries in which we operate.
Changes during 2016: Although there have been changes in the level of risk both positive and negative in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate, overall our net risk remains broadly similar to that of last year.
FAILURE TO COLLECT PAYMENTS ORTORECOVER ASSETS EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBLE: CAROLE CRAN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Non-payment by customers The Group has some large contracts in emerging Regular monitoring of the risk prole and debtor ortheseizure of assets.
market countries where payment practices can position for large contracts.
be unpredictable or where their liquidity has been Mitigation techniques will vary from customer to adversely affected by a fall in commodity prices.
There is customer, but include obtaining advance payments, a risk that we do not obtain payment for a large project letters of credit, and in some cases insurance or combination of projects and or that a material value against losses.
The scale of our business and the deliberate diversity We take a rigorous approach to credit risk management ofour customer portfolio makes it less likely that any and to date have not suffered a significant loss.
bad debt or equipment seizure would be material tothe Groups balance sheet.
A customers non-payment would result in an increased bad debt provision or write-off of the debt.
Should our assets be seized, we would also lose future revenue and profit associated with that equipment whilst having to writeoffits residual value.
A related risk is that of excessive delays in customer collections impacting cash ows.
Changes during 2016: Our risk in this area has risen slightly in 2016 with debtor days increasing since a year ago.
However, we have not suffered asignicant loss in this area during 2016 and have made progress with the most challenging of the overdue debt in Venezuela.
