34 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Emerging risks Themes Risk Regulatory change intervention In December 2015 the BCBS issued a second consultative document, Revisions to the Standardised We conducted an impact assessment of the proposed changes, The IFRS9 work on credit models see Emerging Risks Basel Committee on Approach for Credit Risk containing, amongst others, proposals to increase the capital treatment followed by scenario analysis including feasible management actions.
IFRS9 takes us closer to the sophistication required for Banking Supervision.
of buy-to-let and commercial real estate lending.
If these proposals were implemented as outlined, an IRB approach to capital which may help to mitigate the The Bank also undertook a feasibility study on transitioning from the capital requirements for these market segments would increase significantly and require the risk of future changes in capital requirements.
We will December 2015 Second Standardised to an Internal Ratings Based IRB approach to capital.
execution of management actions to mitigate their impact.
continue to monitor the cost and benefits associated to This included a gap analysis against current regulatory requirements consultation on Revisions moving to IRB, as the regulatory changes and timeframes and has informed our thinking into possible responses, including to the Standardised for implementation become clear.
the possibility of applying for regulatory approval to operate in an Approach for Credit IRB environment.
Risk proposals New reporting requirements under IFRS 9 introduce forward looking credit loss models which will lead We assessed the impact of IFRS 9 and have initiated a project plan We are on track with enhancements to our credit IFRS 9 to changes in the timing of impairment recognition.
The requirement, which comes in to effect from to ensure compliance with the new standard ahead of its proposed risk models and expect to be IFRS9 compliant ahead 1 January 2018, requires the development of new risk models.
The risk is that the Group is unable to implementation date of 1 January 2018. of January 2018 when the new accounting standard deliver these before new regulation takes effect.
Potentially adverse impact on buy-to-let market of changes to UK tax regime and failure to comply Continued monitoring of Buy-to-Let business levels.
Further review of PRAs expectations in terms of portfolio Buy-To-Let Mortgages with expectations of the regulator set out in PRA Supervisory Statement on buy-to-let Underwriting landlords and use of personal income in affordability Amendment to Buy-to-Let affordability calculation interest cover Tax Changes Standards issued in September 2016. calculation, with expectation that all changes to ratio and stress rate in December 2016 to meet expectations in and revised PRA approach considered necessary will be introduced by the PRAs supervisory statement.
30 September 2017 deadline Underwriting Standards Economic and political environment Heightened economic and political risks following the UKs decision to leave the European Union.
As a The Group incorporated these risks in stress testing conducted The Group will continue to monitor the situation and will The UKs decision to leave UK focused Group, we are sheltered from the more direct impacts of the Referendum, such as access during 2016. decide on an appropriate response, based on internal the European Union to European markets but we are exposed to the wider economic impacts.
To date we have seen no scenario planning, as the situation develops.
direct impact on either the lending or deposit sides of our business.
The geopolitical environment presents risks to global markets, including the impact of a new We have monitored these risks, and the UK economy has remained The medium-term outlook is unclear and there remains International economic administration in the USA, deflationary concerns in the EU and continued political risks in Russia and robust in the face of these domestic and global headwinds.
As a UKa possibility that material international events could and political environment the Middle East.
focused business we have not felt any adverse consequences across adversely affect the UK, in addition to any EU exit impacts.
These could act as a drag on the UK economy and affect the sectors to which we lend.
We aim to manage these risks by maintaining a well-diversified product base, and remaining firmly focused on the UK.
We have a substantial lending exposure to the residential, buy-to-let, and commercial property The Group continued to monitor and manage the performance of our The risks are expected to remain unchanged in 2017.
Exposure to real estate sectors.
Any property value falls, or increase in unemployment may lead to a rising number of defaults.
real estate backed lending, and identified no significant change in performance in 2016.
We also continued to enforce our underwriting criteria, which includes affordability testing at the point of origination.
The low interest rate environment, introduced to stimulate growth following the financial crisis, We conducted specific stress testing on our loan portfolio and We will continue to monitor the external environment and Interest rate environment has persisted for longer than first expected.
If interest rates are increased, or growth slows, maintained strict underwriting criteria, which includes stressing respond to any interest rate rises as appropriate.
unemployment may rise and loan servicing costs may increase, which could cause an increase in affordability rates at interest rates above those being paid today.
Competitive environment The competitive landscape contains risks from new entrants, increased competition from incumbent The risk of competition has been incorporated in our forward planning We will continue to monitor the external environment and New entrants and lenders and disruptive products software solutions potentially affecting both lending and deposit process and the external market is monitored on a consistent basis.
The effect of this could result in lower volume, higher customer attrition and or lower net interest margins.
Technology risk Cyber-crime is a significant threat in our increasingly interconnected world and exposes all businesses During 2015, and continuing into 2016, we strengthened our defences This remains a key risk area and the Group will continue to Cyber-crime and in particular financial services companies to financial as well as reputational damage.
invest in ongoing security improvements.
Cyber threats continue to evolve as demonstrated by high-profile cases.
The increased size of the We have a cyber risk response plan, which involves working with our Group, and growing customer base, increases the profile of the Group to would-be cyber attackers.
technology partners, and ensures that there is a practical response and appropriate escalation.
The Group has a number of major outsource partners and critical supplier relationships who are key The Group has controls in place in relation to sourcing and onboarding Continued focus during 2017 as the updated framework is System failure elements of the overall supply chain.
The failure of one of these key partners could significantly impact suppliers.
In 2016, work was begun to further enhance the supplier implemented across the supplier estate.
outsourcing the Groups operations and reputation.
35 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: Up Stable Down Likelihood change from What we did in 2016 What we expect in 2017 and Direction last year Regulatory change intervention In December 2015 the BCBS issued a second consultative document, Revisions to the Standardised We conducted an impact assessment of the proposed changes, The IFRS9 work on credit models see Emerging Risks Basel Committee on Approach for Credit Risk containing, amongst others, proposals to increase the capital treatment followed by scenario analysis including feasible management actions.
