e c D n e a n r n e e v d o r i g s k k s a i r p p g e n t o i t r e t S 32 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Risk overview and culture Our approach to risk Risk principles and risk culture Effective risk management is a core component of the Group and is Risk culture embedded throughout the organisation.
The Board and senior management ensure that a strong risk culture is at the heart of everything we do, with a clearly defined risk appetite.
Risk Management Franchise preservation Framework The Risk Management Framework outlines the process by which we identify, manage, monitor and report risks to which the Group is exposed.
The framework is supported by supplemental frameworks, policies, processes and procedures which ensure that the Groups risks are managed appropriately and within the Board sanctioned risk appetite.
Franchise preservation Risk culture More detail is provided on page 108.
The protection of our reputation and franchise The Board ensures that the Group actively is paramount.
Everything we do is guided by embraces a strong risk culture, where all staff are Principal risks: the principle of putting the customer at the accountable for the risks they take.
The Board centre of what we do.
It informs our business leads in setting the risk appetite and ensuring Principal risks are the primary risks strategy, the way in which we do business, and that the Risk Management Framework is fully that the business faces, which could the manner in which we treat our customers and embedded with a strong focus on the adherence other stakeholders.
to risk appetite in all metrics.
Staff performance impact the delivery of our strategy.
management and reward practices all have key Read more about those risks and how risk inputs, and a focus on risk management in they are managed opposite and in detail their design.
The Group aims for employees to be risk aware, and to strike the right balance between on page 112. delivering on objectives, individual accountability, and maintaining a safe and secure business Emerging risks: adhering to risk appetite Emerging risks are those risks that have been identified on the horizon, which may have an impact on our future Strong risk governance: Defined risk appetite performance, compromise our existing A clearly defined Risk Appetite Framework is in Risk is managed using the three lines of defence strategy or threaten our business place which allows the setting of detailed risk principle separating risk origination from risk model.
These risks are discussed on appetite and reporting metrics for principal risks.
Governance is pages 3435. provided through a formal committee process, including the Board Risk and Audit Committees.
Legal and Regulatory risks: We operate within the context of the UK legal and regulatory environment as well as European law adopted Risk management and control Independent risk oversight and challenge and supported by UK regulators.
Risk is the risk oversight and challenge function, Risks are identified, managed, monitored and reported against pre-determined risk appetite independent of the businesses and functions, with The Legal and Compliance functions a reporting line to the Board Risk Committee.
All are subject to governance ensure that we are aware of both and controls.
Responsibility for the identification, the basis of the second line of defence.
assessment, measurement, monitoring and current and upcoming legal or management of the risks rests with the first line of regulatory requirements.
defence, being the business units and functions.
