33 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: Up Principal risks Stable Down Principal risk Mitigation Commentary Focus lending where we have specific expertise Group cost of risk remains low Credit Risk at 23bps 2015: 19bps reflecting The risk that customers Limit concentration of lending by size, geography the maturation of the book and a and sector are unable to make their move to less benign conditions.
Obtain appropriate level of security cover and perform affordability testing at origination The heightened uncertainty for the UK economy following Embed clear lending policies in each business area the referendum vote, and the Regularly review performance against risk appetite implementation of the result, Stress test the portfolio to test resilience has increased the possibility of higher future credit losses.
Monthly monitoring of capital adequacy against The Groups capital remains Capital and Liquidity Risk targets and forecasts stable and well above regulatory The risk that we fail to hold minimum requirements.
Maintenance of a liquidity buffer based on sufficient or appropriate stressed requirements We successfully raised reserves to support growth, additional 60m Tier 2 capital meet regulatory requirements, Daily monitoring of liquidity buffer in October 2016. or repay obligations as they Stress testing and sensitivity analysis of both capital fall due.
and liquidity The Groups liquidity position remains stable.
Maintenance and annual review of the Contingency Funding Plan Ongoing review, analysis and impact assessment of regulatory changes We do not seek to take or expose the Group to market The Groups approach remains Market Risk risk and we do not carry out proprietary trading prudent and underlying risks The risk that market remain unchanged.
movements adversely impact We match interest rate structures of assets and liabilities to create a natural hedge where possible the Group.
Unmatched interest rate exposures are hedged with derivative Swap contracts Embed and ensure all staff understand and follow the The Group continues to invest Operational Risk Operational Risk Management Framework in its IT infrastructure including The risk of loss due to failure in Cyber controls and resilience.
processes, systems or human Analysis of Risk Event Reporting and follow-up actions error, including outsourcing.
Monitoring of the operational risk profile, and risk event reporting Continuing to invest in information security and cyber controls following our Cyber strategy Implementation of a Third Party Supplier Framework The Group provides simple and transparent products Whilst the financial services Compliance, Conduct and and operates solely in the UK market.
sector remains subject to Financial Crime Risk Provide and monitor against clear policy frameworks, increasing regulation and The risk of sanctions or including Conduct Risk and Product Governance scrutiny we believe our risks financial loss as a result remain unchanged from the Continued investment in staff training and awareness of a failure to comply with prior year.
Horizon scanning and impact assessment of potential applicable laws, including antiregulatory change money laundering and the risk of causing unfair outcomes or detriment to customers.
All governance committees have reputational risk We believe the risks remain Reputational Risk considerations as a key part of their remit unchanged from the prior year.
Failure to meet the Group Corporate Affairs monitors reputational risk, expectations and standards under the executive direction of the Group CEO of our customers, investors, regulators or All employees are made aware of their responsibilities under the Banks Reputational Risk Policy other counterparties.
Maintenance of open and transparent relationships with regulators and other key stakeholders
