Strategic Report Risk Management Risk Management Framework This section of the report deals with the The Group has a Risk Management Framework that provides a robust structure of the Groups Risk Management and comprehensive approach for the identification and management of key risks facing the business.
The Framework helps in the assessment Framework and risk reporting.
and management of current and future risks.
Principal Risk categories include Market and Prudential, Operational, Strategic and Regulatory and Conduct Risk.
The Risk Management Framework supports two key processes: the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, which helps to determine the capital requirements including potential stress points of the Group: and the ILAAP Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process, which helps to determine the liquidity requirements including potential stress points of the Group.
Market and Prudential Risks Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Investment performance fails to deliver Asset allocation strategy and governance Investment sufficient capital growth due to poor stock Robust investment process underselection, sector allocation or wider market Compliance with investment parameters regularly tested performance movements.
Stress and scenario testing of portfolios Risk and performance management information regularly reviewed by the Board The Company does not have sufficient Majority of investments are in listed equities Liquidity liquid resources to ensure that it can meet Daily monitoring of cash positions its liabilities as they fall due during normal Gearing availability and stressed times.
Operational Risks Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Failure to ensure that the business is adequately Systems and controls to protect the business Cyber attack protected against the threat of cyber attack, regularly tested which may lead to significant business disruption Ongoing monitoring of environment to understand or external fraud.
threat landscape Programme of enhancements to keep pace with Despite action taken by management to latest defence strategies improve systems the increasing trend is due to Business continuity plans in place should an the general growth in cyber related incidents incident occur across the industry.
The Company changed its investment manager Experienced investment managers Change of to Alliance Trust Investments in 2016 and will Use of transition manager for the investment switch Investment change it to Willis Towers Watson in 2017. to Willis Towers Watson Manager Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 22 I Strategic Report II III Risk Appetite Principal risks A Risk appetite statement has been approved by the Board and In common with other financial services organisations, our business provides the basis for the level of risk the Group is prepared to accept.
model results in a number of inherent risks which are continuously A suite of risk appetite metrics have been agreed and activity is monitored and managed.
The risks have been categorised as Market monitored against stated triggers and limits.
Details of exceptions and Prudential, Operational, Strategic and Regulatory and Conduct to our Risk Appetite are noted on the following page.
The Board regularly carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks that the Group could face and their mitigants.
Risk Governance Committees The Audit and Risk Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, with delegated responsibility from the Board to provide oversight and challenge to the appropriateness of the Risk Management Framework and the forward-looking risks facing the Group.
Alliance Trust Investments and Alliance Trust Savings both had their own Audit and Risk committees focused on the risks associated with their businesses.
The Committee received reports of Risk Exposures and Events, as well as discussing any breaches of the agreed risk appetite.
Strategic Risks Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Stock market action involving Alliance Trust Continuous monitoring against KPIs at Board level Performance results in uncertainty around the business Regular meeting with shareholders impacted by model and impact on performance current Regular reviews of business model and strategy external factors and future.
Ongoing review of political and economic environment The increasing risk is due to continued focus by shareholders on delivery of the Trusts strategy.
Alliance Trust Savings or Alliance Trust Regular reporting to Board of performance against plan Subsidiary underInvestments do not meet their business plans, Active management of costs performance causing the Company to fail to make a return Reviews of threats to revenue streams and management on its investment.
of key clients Diversified proposition The sale of Alliance Trust Investments in 2017 will reduce this risk Regulatory and Conduct Risks Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Failure to ensure that systems and controls are Risk Control Self-Assessment process regularly assesses Regulatory adequate to allow compliance with all relevant robustness of control environment non-compliance regulatory requirements.
Regulatory developments process to ensure changes are appropriately implemented Verification activities by Depositary as part of AIFM Directive requirements Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 23 Strategic Report Risk Management continued We undertake an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Risk Framework Risk framework see the diagram opposite.
The most recent assessment was presented to the Audit and Risk Committee following the year end and noted that there were no Risk universe significant concerns to highlight.
An annual report on the effectiveness of Risk appetite the internal control systems is provided to the Board.
This includes a review of all material financial, prudential, operational Policies and compliance controls.
The report builds on the reporting of each line of defence that is provided across the course Governance Management information of the year through the governance committees up to the Board.
The latest report was presented to the Audit and Risk management organisation Risk measurement Risk Committee following the year end and no material issues were identified.
Embed risk practices Culture Conduct Risk Appetite Risk Appetite measures which at the year end and in each quarter of 2016 were outside the limits approved by the Board were: Net Asset Value relative to MSCI ACWI Management of Alliance Trust PLC Direct Costs The Board believes that the output from the Strategic Review and the actions being taken to implement a new investment approach will see these measures return to within our risk appetite limits.
The other measures which breached the agreed risk appetite during the year were: Discount Breached from Q1 to Q3, with an improvement to within target following the Strategic Review announcement in December and the commencement of an active programme of share buybacks.
Performance of subsidiaries against business plan Breached in Q1 and Q2, with improvements made in the second half of the year with Alliance Trust Investments moving to operational profitability: however, Alliance Trust Savings profit finished the year below budget.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 24
