Accountability Risk management and internal control systems The board has overall responsibility for setting Amec Foster A significant programme of work was undertaken following Wheelers risk appetite, and for maintaining sound risk the acquisition of Foster Wheeler to integrate the control management and internal control systems.
Responsibility for framework and risk and control systems with those of the wider risk management activities and practices, and internal control group, and 2015 saw the Group reach full compliance with our systems, is undertaken on behalf of the board by the audit obligations under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX.
committee and risk committee, both of which provide reports Work continued during 2016 on the continued development to the board on their work.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness and refinement of the Groups obligations under SOX.
Pursuant and adequacy of the Groups financial, operational, compliance to section 302 of SOX, we have again carried out an evaluation and risk management systems are undertaken and considered of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our by the board.
These systems can, however, only provide disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the Exchange Act as they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk under the supervision and the participation of the Executive of failure to achieve business objectives.
Committee, which is responsible for the management of the internal controls, and which includes the Chief Executive The internal control processes are complemented by an annual Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
There are inherent control self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure businesses.
This covers health, safety and environment, legal, controls and procedures, including the possibility of human commercial and contractual, financial, information technology error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of control monitoring process.
Based upon our evaluation Amec Foster Wheeler has interests in a number of joint as at 31 December 2016, we have concluded that the disclosure arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part controls and procedures i were effective at a reasonable level of the Groups formal corporate governance process because of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this annual of the joint management responsibilities.
Responsibility for report in ensuring that information required to be recorded, such reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations processed, summarised and reported in the reports that boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, is recorded, of Amec Foster Wheelers normal internal audit process.
processed, summarised and reported within the time periods Details of the Companys related undertakings can be found specified in the SECs rules and forms and ii were effective on pages 212 to 221. at a reasonable level of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this annual report in ensuring that information to The board and its committees have an ongoing process that is be disclosed in the reports that are filed or submitted under reviewed regularly by the board for identifying, evaluating and the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the managing the principal risks faced by Amec Foster Wheeler, Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive Officer and including strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant the Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry into and exit from required disclosure.
This process and the associated internal control systems accord with the September 2014 Financial Pursuant to section 404 of SOX, under the supervision and the Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management, Internal participation of the Executive Committee, which includes the Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following internal control over financial reporting.
We have carried out an a structured and documented review of potential opportunities evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under risk exposure.
the Exchange Act based on the Internal Control Integrated The threats and opportunities associated with tender Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Based on various levels in the Group in line with the delegated authorities.
this evaluation, we have concluded that our internal control over Tenders that are outside the delegated authority of the business financial reporting was effective as at 31 December 2016. lines are also reviewed by the tender review committee and, Ernst & Young LLP has audited the consolidated financial in addition, tenders for entering into high-risk contracts with statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and has also an estimated revenue in excess of $750m are approved by the assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial board.
The most significant contractual issues in terms of risk reporting.
Their attestation report can be found on page 103. require the approval of the relevant business line lead and the business line Company Commercial Director.
During the period covered by this annual report, we have not made any changes to our internal control over financial As a result of its ongoing involvement in and overview of reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely risk management and internal control systems across the to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Group, the board is satisfied that the systems in place remain effective.
Further details of the Groups risk management process, including reporting and monitoring, and roles and responsibilities, can be found on page 28.
Amec Foster Wheeler 64 Annual report and accounts 2016
