Risk factors We describe below those risks and uncertainties that we The Company expects to continue to derive the majority of its consider to be significant because their outcome may have revenue from its operations in the United Kingdom, the United a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial States and Canada.
Therefore, the Company may be particularly condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We have not listed affected by political and economic conditions in these geographic these risks and uncertainties in any particular order of priority.
regions, such as political uncertainty, energy prices, potential Other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to economic deterioration and the availability and cost of credit, us, or that are known but not currently considered by us to and by political and economic conditions in other regions that be significant, could become apparent to us or change and affect the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada.
therefore may ultimately have such material adverse effects.
The transition to a new presidential administration in the United States may cause uncertainty and unpredictability for a period Adverse global economic, political or other macroeconomic of time which may impact confidence and spending levels.
developments in the markets and jurisdictions in which the In addition, following the majority vote in June 2016 for the United Company operates may adversely affect the Companys Kingdom to leave the European Union, there is uncertainty as to business, financial condition and results of operations the effects an exit may have on economic or market conditions The Company derives the largest share of its revenue from in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally.
the Oil, Gas & Chemicals OG&C business line, which it expects to continue to be the case for the foreseeable future.
The result of the UK general election on 8 June 2017 will also In recent years, the oil and gas industry has faced a number determine the stance Britain takes in its negotiations to leave of challenges, including continuing pressure on consumer the EU as well as the future of projects within the National demand, escalating costs and reduced oil and gas prices, Infrastructure Plan, which could create further uncertainty as described in the risk factor entitled Changes in the prices in UK projects.
of commodities and other materials may adversely impact Such uncertainty has the potential to lead to decreased demand for the Companys services below.
Similar trends or delayed investments in projects in the United Kingdom.
have also been experienced in the Mining industry.
As a result Prolonged uncertainty or a worsening of economic conditions of the continuing nature of these challenges, many oil and gas in the United Kingdom could have a material adverse effect and mining companies have reduced, and may reduce further, on the Companys business, financial condition and results their capital expenditure in response to financial and investor of operations.
pressure, which has had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on the Companys business, financial condition Adverse or volatile economic conditions may also impact liquidity and results of operations.
and the availability of credit to the Companys customers, as well as the demands of investors for greater returns in these In other markets, such as Power & Process, spending markets, each of which may in turn influence the amount and by customers depends on cost developments for new timing of customer spending on capital investment and or asset technologies, support for government initiatives and maintenance and may result in delays or cancellation of projects.
the availability of funding for projects.
In Environment & Infrastructure, spending by customers is dependent upon If the Company is unable to successfully anticipate changing changing environmental regulations, such as emissions economic and political conditions affecting the jurisdictions and reductions regulations described in The Company may markets in which it operates, it may be unable to effectively plan be adversely impacted by regional, national and or global for, or respond to, those changes.
requirements in respect of emissions reductions, as well Changes in the prices of commodities and other materials as government spending on infrastructure projects, which may adversely impact demand for the Companys service may be influenced by budgetary constraints.
The Company Prices of commodities and other materials are volatile and has experienced and may continue to experience increased influenced by a number of external factors, including the supply competition for new contracts and some customers have of, and demand for, the materials themselves, speculative also insisted on different, more onerous contract terms activities by market participants, global political and economic due to these conditions.
conditions, the levels of production and the costs of exploring for, developing, producing, storing and delivering the materials.
In particular, fluctuations in prices related to the oil and gas, metals, mining and minerals industries have adversely impacted the Companys business since they have adversely affected customer spending.
Fluctuations in prices have also adversely affected margins due to the reduced volume of work in the relevant industries and resulting increase in competition, which has negatively impacted margins for asset maintenance contracts, as well as for projects.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the majority of the Companys revenues were derived from OG&C and Mining.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 177 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued In addition, political and social unrest, for example in the Oil prices have declined significantly since 2014, dropping below $26 per barrel in early 2016 before recovering somewhat.
Middle East, has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on existing and future opportunities in the region.
The reduction in oil prices has adversely impacted investment in both oil & gas production by driving companies to focus on Political, economic and social instability may impact the Companys operations by hindering its ability to send ways in which they can be more capital efficient, and this may continue if oil prices remain low.
For example, companies may personnel abroad, to hire and retain local personnel, to conduct its operations in the same manner that it would in other choose to reduce overall levels of upstream and downstream capital expenditure and look at options to improve the efficiency jurisdictions or by requiring it to exit unstable jurisdictions.
The foregoing may result in higher costs and have a material of operating expenditure.
In addition, low oil prices may also negatively affect the availability of funding for projects.
adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations.
Conversely, as oil prices recover, downstream oil and gas customers may reduce expenditure on projects as a result of The Companys future business performance will depend increasing costs, which may negatively impact the Company on the award of new contracts, which depends on factors as it seeks to grow its business in this segment.
Fluctuations not entirely within the Companys control in the price of metals and minerals, such as gold and copper, A substantial portion of the Companys operating revenues are have also impacted mining customer spending.
Such declines derived from new contract awards or projects.
It is generally in the levels of capital expenditure by mining customers as difficult to predict whether and when contracts will be awarded a result of a reduction in prices could negatively impact the due to the lengthy and complex bidding and selection process.
Any delay, deferral or size reduction in This process is affected by a number of factors, such as its customers projects may restrict the opportunities available market conditions, a bidders reputation and experience both to the Company for organic growth and the achievement of its in the market and with the customer, financing arrangements, targets.
A sustained and significant adverse change in the prices governmental approvals and environmental authorisations.
of commodities and other materials could have a material The Company may experience a loss of new business, and adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition therefore a loss of market share, if it is unable to accurately and results of operations.
assess these factors as part of its bid.
The Company has The Company is exposed to the risks associated with also experienced competition in relation to tenders for new operating in developing markets contracts on price and or based on the greater perceived The Company expects that an increasing proportion of financial strength, resources, experience or technological revenues in the future will be in developing markets.
Operations advantages of its competitors.
The Company competes in these markets are exposed to risks that may not be with international, national and local engineering, project encountered in countries with well established economic and management and consultancy firms.
The Company may have political systems, which include, to a greater or lesser extent, to agree to lower prices or less favourable contract terms for changes in governmental regulations, trade restrictions and contracts under bid or risk losing a bid, or it may decide not laws, tariffs and other barriers, the potential for nationalisation to pursue a contract if the expected profit margins are below of enterprises or government policies favouring local production minimum acceptable margins based on an assessment of the or restricting foreign investment, renegotiation or nullification of project or if the contract terms are unacceptable, all of which existing agreements, fluctuations in interest rates and currency could negatively impact the Companys order book and future exchange rates, the introduction of exchange controls and other business performance.
restrictions by these foreign governments, timeliness of client The bidding costs associated with tendering for new contracts payments, differing protections for intellectual property and can be significant and may not necessarily result in the award enforcement thereof and divergent environmental laws and of a new contract.
These costs are not usually recoverable, even regulations.
The Company may also be subject to heightened if the tender is won.
Furthermore, if new contract awards are levels of crime, corruption or arbitrary and or inconsistent not received, if awards are delayed or there are modifications governmental actions.
These risks may impact the Companys regarding the scope of the contract, the Company may incur ability to operate successfully in a given emerging market in additional costs reallocating staff in a timely manner or may which it does not have experience operating or may influence its be required to terminate excess staff.
In addition, preparation decision to expand its operations into other emerging markets.
of bids can divert significant management and operating Furthermore, some of these jurisdictions may have complex resources away from other activities key to the running and, at times, immature legal and regulatory frameworks.
Amec Foster Wheeler endeavours to conduct its business in Any of the above factors could impact the Companys ability to accordance with the principles set forth in its Code of Business win new contracts and the failure to do so could have a material Conduct, and with its policies and procedures, and within the adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results framework set by applicable regulatory requirements in each of operations.
of its chosen markets and in the geographic regions in which it operates.
However, if the Company does not comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, either as a result of the actions of its employees or the employees of the partners with whom the Company sometimes operates, this may lead to the loss of licences, cessations of business and or potential civil and criminal liability for the Company and its management.
Amec Foster Wheeler 178 Annual report and accounts 2016 other unexpected delays or costs.
If any of the Companys Failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery could result in damage to reputation and or loss of repeat contracts are subject to these changes or modifications, and if the Company is unable to obtain a variation of the existing business, and potentially lead to disputes Many of the contracts that the Company enters into with contract, or is not sufficiently reimbursed for the costs incurred as a result of these changes or modifications, there could be its customers are long-term and may contain liquidated damages clauses relating to on time delivery and or liquidated a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.
damages relating to performance and or liability in respect of unliquidated damages.
A number of factors, including failure Long term contracts may be subject to early termination, to follow best practice guidelines, could mean that projects variation or non renewal provisions are not delivered to time, cost, quality or appropriate health, The Company enters into long term contracts with customers, safety and environmental standards and therefore do not meet which are performed over a period that may exceed two years.
customer expectations or the expectations of the relevant Such contracts may be terminated earlier than expected, third party.
Any failure to deliver in accordance with customer either within the relevant notice periods or upon default expectations could subject the Company to damages and or or non performance by the Company, which may result in reduce its margins on these contracts.
Failure to meet customer additional costs if adequate compensation is not received.
expectations may also result in disputes or litigation, cancelled It may be difficult to replace any lost contract with a new contracts, additional costs incurred in excess of current equally attractive contract, a new but less attractive contract, contract provisions, or back-charges for alleged breaches or at all.
The Companys contracts may be subject to variation of warranty and other contract commitments.
Damage to the by renegotiation or by requiring a different level of service to Companys reputation or loss of repeat business as a result of be provided.
In some reimbursable contracts, customers may its failure to meet its customers expectations could negatively disagree with the statement showing the costs which have been impact its ability to win contracts in the future.
The occurrence incurred on a project.
Such costs may be disallowed and so may of any of these events could have a material adverse effect not be recoverable.
To the extent that the Company experiences on the Companys business, financial condition and results any of the foregoing risks, it may experience reduced of operations.
As a result, this could have a material Lump sum contracts are subject to the risks associated adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition with unanticipated modifications, technical problems and results of operations.
and delays, which may have material negative financial Projects included in the Companys order book may be consequences delayed or cancelled The Company enters into reimbursable contracts including The Companys order book, at any specified date, consists of target price contracts, in which it contracts either on the basis the Companys share of the total remaining value of secured of actual costs plus a fee or multiplier or, especially in the oil projects to be executed.
Contracts are only included in the and gas market, on the basis of a schedule of daily or hourly Companys order book when they are signed or if they are due rates, and lump sum contracts, in which it contracts based to be formally signed off within one month.
Changes in project upon specifications and other design information provided scope or schedule create uncertainty as to the portion of orders by the customer.
Lump sum contracts have accounted for an that can be performed or the amount of revenue that will be increasing proportion of the Companys revenue and order book recognised in any given year.
Customers may also not be able to and are expected to continue to grow in the medium term.
secure approvals for their projects, which could result in a delay Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable or cancellation of the proposed project.
Even where a project contracts because the selling price of the project is agreed proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties based on estimates at the time the contractor enters into the may default and fail to pay amounts owed or fail to comply with contract and the contractor assumes a greater proportion of the indemnity obligations in a given contract.
Furthermore, the risks associated with completing the project.
In particular, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the value in the engineering, procurement and construction EPC of the order book.
As a result of these uncertainties, the contracts in which the Company engages, the contractor order book may not be a reliable indicator of future operating sometimes has to assume the risk of design changes for revenues or profitability.
Material delays, cancellations or which there is no variation entitlement under the contract payment defaults could have a material adverse effect on because the contractor has assumed responsibility for the the Companys business, financial condition and results engineering design development, for example in situations of operations.
where contractual responsibility has to be accepted for a front end design undertaken by others.
The Company would typically seek to review the front end engineering design prior to agreeing to an EPC price and schedule.
There can be no assurance that the Company will have the opportunity to fully validate the front end design before fixing the price and schedule.
There may also be unanticipated technical problems with the equipment being supplied or developed by the contractor, changes in the costs of components, materials or labour, difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals, changes in labour conditions and Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 179 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued The success of the Companys projects depends Failure to successfully defend against claims made by project owners, suppliers or subcontractors, or failure to substantially on the satisfactory performance by its partners of their contractual and other obligations recover adequately on claims made against project owners, suppliers or subcontractors, could materially adversely The Company has historically bid for contracts jointly with various partners, which are subject to inherent risks, such as affect the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations differing opinions or views between partners, which may result in delayed decision making or a failure to agree on material The Companys projects involve complex designs and engineering, the procurement of equipment and supplies issues.
The Company expects to continue to enter into similar arrangements from time to time and as needed for contracts, and construction construction management.
The Company may encounter difficulties related to designs or engineering, thereby exposing it to such risks.
In addition, from time to time, in order to establish or preserve a relationship, or to equipment and supply delivery, schedule changes and other factors, some of which are beyond its control that may better ensure venture success, the Company may accept risks or responsibilities that are not necessarily proportionate to affect its ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule or to meet the contractual the reward it expects to receive.
Although the Company may have decision making and audit rights in respect of its joint performance obligations.
contractual arrangements, it typically will not wholly operate The Company generally relies on equipment manufacturers, these ventures and therefore the Company may have limited subcontractors and suppliers to assist with the completion of control over decisions and actions, including internal controls their contracts, and the Company will continue to rely on such and financial reporting.
parties to complete its contracts in the future.
As such, claims involving project owners, suppliers and subcontractors and The success of these contractual arrangements also depends, other counterparties may be brought against the Company in large part, on the satisfactory performance by the Companys and by the Company in connection with project contracts that partners of their contractual and other obligations, including had been previously entered into by the Company.
Claims their obligation to commit working capital, equity or security brought against the Company may include back charges for and to support their indemnification and other contractual alleged defective or incomplete work, breaches of warranty, obligations.
If a partner fails to satisfactorily perform its negligence and or late completion of the project work.
The obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, the claims and back charges can involve actual damages, as well parties may be unable to adequately perform or deliver their as contractually agreed-upon liquidated sums.
Under these circumstances, the Company may suffer losses on contracts if the amounts it is required to may be required to make additional investments and provide pay for subcontractor services exceed the original estimates.
additional services to ensure the adequate performance and Claims brought by the Company against project owners may delivery of the contracted services.
These additional obligations include claims for additional costs incurred in excess of current could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, increased contract provisions arising out of project delays and changes liabilities or significant losses with respect to the contract.
In in the previously agreed scope of work.
Claims between the addition, a failure by a partner to comply with applicable laws, Company and its suppliers, subcontractors and vendors may rules or regulations has in the past and could in the future include claims for non-performance, delayed performance negatively impact the Companys reputation and business and, or sub-standard performance like those described above.
furthermore, could expose the Company to the risk of civil or These project claims, if not resolved through negotiation, are criminal penalties, fines or the loss of licensing.
In particular, often subject to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration the Company may decide to exit the arrangement on terms proceedings, and it is often difficult to accurately predict when less favourable than its initial investment.
these claims will be fully resolved and what the ultimate cost The occurrence of any of these events could have a material will be.
Costs and charges associated with claims could have adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial and results of operations.
condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, the Company assumes the technical risk and associated warranty obligations for selected contracts and projects meaning that the Company must tailor products and systems to satisfy the technical requirements of a project even though, at the time the project is awarded, they may not have previously produced such a product or system.
The Company, as part of its operations, provides process technology and may be required to assume risks associated with the performance of such technology.
Warranty obligations in both reimbursable and lump sum contracts can range from re-performance of engineering services to modification or replacement of equipment.
Breach of technical requirements and associated warranty obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations.
Amec Foster Wheeler 180 Annual report and accounts 2016 Implementation of Amec Foster Wheelers new If the Company is unable to execute its business strategy, its business, financial condition and results of operations organisational model involves numerous challenges that may be more time-consuming and costly than expected, could be adversely affected Amec Foster Wheelers financial performance and future or may not achieve the expected results Amec Foster Wheeler has recently reorganised its prospects depend significantly on its ability to successfully implement its transformation programme and growth strategy, organisational model along four market facing business lines in order to better align its business to meet customer needs both at a corporate level and for individual business lines.
A significant amount of managements The success of Amec Foster Wheelers strategic delivery time has been and will be dedicated to the reorganisation and will rely on its ability to identify new opportunities and to this may impact their ability to run the business effectively.
generate sufficient customer interest for new offerings and In addition, it is possible that the reorganisation may result in in new segments and jurisdictions.
This will be impacted by turnover of key personnel and the management team may be competition and, in particular, how Amec Foster Wheelers required to spend additional time and money hiring suitable competitors respond to the Companys refreshed business replacements.
Uncertainty arising from the reorganisation line strategies and existing market conditions.
Furthermore, could also result in decreased productivity by Amec Foster Amec Foster Wheelers ability to expand its existing offerings Wheelers employees, which in turn could negatively impact internationally will be subject to the risks of operating in new Amec Foster Wheelers ability to deliver projects to the required regions, and in particular in developing markets, as described timeframe or quality and could have a negative impact on the in the risk factor entitled The Company is exposed to the risks Companys reputation.
associated with operating in developing markets.
Transfer of employees and compliance with regulation, among other things, Furthermore, as part of the reorganisation Amec Foster Wheeler will result in additional costs for the Company.
identified approximately 100 million of net annualised cost savings, primarily through a reduction in headcount, along The successful delivery of Amec Foster Wheelers corporate with associated property and personnel costs.
Such actions strategy is contingent on the Companys ability to retain or may lead to employee dissatisfaction, which could impact the attract employees with specific skill sets, as described in the Companys ability to meet its obligations under its contracts risk factor entitled The Company may lose key management and manage its operations efficiently, and may also negatively or face difficulty in attracting and retaining appropriately impact the Companys ability to attract individuals to fill skilled personnel, to deliver efficient services to customers, key roles.
To the extent that these measures take longer meeting their expectations and demands and, in some specific than expected to implement, this may negatively impact instances, to expand the scope of work beyond what Amec the Companys ability to achieve its targeted cost savings Foster Wheeler has traditionally provided to its customers.
and the Company may be required to incur additional costs.
This will, in part, require the development or introduction Furthermore, such headcount reductions carry the risk of legal of new technological offerings or the establishment of new actions taken by employees who believe they have been unfairly partnerships with industry participants, such as technology or wrongfully terminated.
Legal actions could result in additional owners or EPC contractors.
There can be no assurances that costs being incurred by the Company.
new offerings will be implemented in a timely manner or at all, and any delay may result in Amec Foster Wheeler incurring additional costs.
There can also be no assurances that new partnerships will develop as expected, which may impact Amec Foster Wheelers ability to deliver certain services to customers.
Part of Amec Foster Wheelers strategy will also entail building the capacity and headcount of its India Operations.
The Company expects that these operations will enable it to more efficiently and effectively deliver projects to its customers across all markets.
Failure to do so may impact Amec Foster Wheelers ability to compete on new bids, as well as its ability to deliver projects in line with customer expectations.
In the event that Amec Foster Wheeler is unable to achieve the anticipated benefits of its strategic plan, this could have a material adverse effect on its growth prospects and future profitability.
In addition, depending on changing market, operational and financial conditions and managements future expectations, the Company may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of its stated strategy.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 181 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued Failure to comply with health, safety and environmental The Company is subject to risks associated with divesting non-core businesses and assets laws could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the The Company may face risks arising out of its ongoing portfolio review.
In particular, the Company may be unable to find Company The Company is subject to numerous laws, regulations and purchasers for assets or businesses to be disposed, and the Company may not be able to meet the targets associated with policies concerning the protection of health, safety and the environment, such as those concerning the use and production its disposal programme.
For example, it has taken longer than expected to execute the sale of the Global Power Group and, of waste and by products considered to be hazardous under the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in although the sale of the circulating fluidised bed boiler business is expected to close in the second quarter of 2017, the Company which it operates, including nuclear and low level radioactive materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, is still in discussions on the sale of the remaining portion of the business.
Activities arising from the ongoing portfolio review waste water and waste disposal or that otherwise relate to environmental protection.
Failure to comply with such laws, and any subsequent disposals will require additional time of key management, as well as additional financial resources.
To the regulations and policies could potentially lead to reputational damage, fines, litigation and claims for compensation, which extent that the Company is unable to proceed with the portfolio review and any disposals in the timeframe that it expects, or can be substantial.
Non-compliance may also result in the further management or other resources are required to carry withdrawal or suspension of licences and permits, or the out those activities, it may have a negative financial impact Company may be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean on the Company.
up action or to pay for government ordered remedial clean up actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused The Company remains at risk of potential litigation and by third parties.
The Company may also be subject to liabilities business claims in relation to divested and non-core businesses for environmental contamination as an owner or operator where it has provided warranties and or indemnities to the or former owner or operator of a facility or as a generator purchaser or has continuing obligations, such as to carry out of hazardous substances without regard to negligence or environmental remediation.
Where appropriate, the Company fault.
The Company could also be exposed to risks associated has made provision for these obligations, but it is possible that with the proper storage and decommissioning of radioactive the actual costs incurred in settling any claims will materially materials and the impact of nuclear regulation.
As part of any exceed those provisions.
Claims that may arise in connection contract involving work or services at or in connection with with such obligations and liabilities may divert the Companys nuclear facilities, the Company typically seeks an indemnity management and may result in additional financial resources in respect of nuclear liability from its customers.
Where an being incurred, and could have a material adverse effect indemnity is not provided, international nuclear conventions, on the Companys business, financial condition and results such as the Paris Convention and the Vienna Convention, of operations.
protect the Company against liability, provided that the A major environmental or health and safety incident could Companys contracting entity is registered in a country which lead to reputational damage and potential liabilities is a signatory of the relevant convention.
However, an incident The Company is involved in activities and environments that which results in a breach of nuclear regulation, including can be dangerous and that have the potential to cause serious contamination, may still result in reputational damage for injury to personnel or damage to property or the environment.
In cases where the Companys customers are The Companys projects are complex and place employees not prepared to provide an indemnity of this nature, and if no and others near large equipment, dangerous processes, highly protection is provided by local legislation and or international regulated materials or in remote and challenging environments.
convention, the Company may be required to bear the cost of The Company is responsible for the safety and security of its such liabilities in addition to any reputational damage.
employees travelling on company business and while working Changes in environmental laws and regulations, remediation at project sites, and of third party personnel while working obligations, enforcement actions, stricter interpretations of at project sites under the supervision of the Company, and, existing requirements, future discovery of contamination or accordingly, must implement safety procedures.
Failure claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources to comply with such procedures may cause the Company or the environment could result in unanticipated material costs to be subject to losses and liability under client contracts and liabilities.
There can be no assurance that the Company will or statutory regulations.
not incur significant additional costs in the future or be subject Should significant environmental damage occur, either as a to further liabilities in relation to its operations.
The Company result of actions by the Company or by third parties, this could is also required to comply with environmental and engineering have a negative impact in the markets in which the Company licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which operates.
Any failure in health and safety performance or a it currently operates.
Failure to do so could lead to fines, major environmental incident is likely to result in additional disgorgement of profits, withdrawal or suspension of licence costs in terms of potential liabilities or remediation costs or other penalties.
The occurrence of any of these events could incurred as a result.
Such a failure could generate significant have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, adverse publicity, result in employee turnover and damage the financial condition and results of operations.
Companys reputation, which may adversely impact its ability to win new business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.
Amec Foster Wheeler 182 Annual report and accounts 2016 X If the actual number and or cost to Amec Foster Wheeler adverse changes to forecasting, estimation or valuation of resolving asbestos-related claims is higher than assumptions or methodologies whether related to potential expected, there may be an adverse effect on its cash flows liabilities, claims and or associated costs : and its results to the extent that the additional cost is not X payment of damages in amounts greater than expected: or covered by insurance, or expected insurance recoveries are not, in fact, realised X adverse changes in legislative or judicial standards governing Certain of Amec Foster Wheelers subsidiaries have been named the filing, handling or resolution of asbestos-related claims.
as defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and Whilst certain of these claims are covered by insurance, the out of court administrative claims in which the plaintiffs claim settlements that the Company made with its insurers were damages for bodily injury or death alleged to have arisen from sometimes for fixed monetary amounts and or provide cover exposure to asbestos, primarily in connection with asbestos only for claims made before a specified future date.
Accordingly, placed by others on steam generating units and auxiliary a future increase in Amec Foster Wheelers asbestos-related equipment allegedly assembled, installed and or sold by those liabilities would not result in an equivalent increase in the subsidiaries.
In the United States, certain former Foster Wheeler amount recoverable from those insurers.
It is also possible subsidiaries have received claims alleging personal injuries due that insurance recoveries may not be realised in full and on time to contracting work performed by them and occasionally from or at all, due to insurer insolvency or for some other reason.
exposure to asbestos-containing components installed in their To the extent that any defence and or indemnity costs steam generating units and auxiliary equipment.
The Company incurred by Amec Foster Wheeler for open and expected future expects that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in asbestos-related claims are not covered by insurance proceeds, additional and or similar suits, and that new claims will be filed it would be responsible for the payment of those costs, which in the future.
Whilst some of these claims have been, and are would adversely affect its cash flows.
expected to be, made in the United Kingdom, the majority have been, and are expected to be, made in the United States.
If further provisions are necessary to sufficiently cover future asbestos related liability, this could have a material adverse The Company has provided for the estimated indemnity effect on the Companys business, financial condition and amounts and defence costs that it expects to incur in relation to results of operations.
open and expected future asbestos-related claims in each year in the period to 2050.
The Company has also recognised the The Company may be adversely impacted by regional, estimated future recoveries under its insurance arrangements national and or global requirements in respect of against the costs of resolving these claims.
emissions reductions International agreements, national laws, state laws and various Several factors, including differences in how claims are regulatory schemes that limit or otherwise regulate emissions evaluated and external events affecting the quantity and types measuring and control of air pollutants and greenhouse of asbestos claims, could result in the cost of current asbestos gases are under consideration by different governments claims and the number and cost of future asbestos claims being and governmental entities.
Increasingly stringent regulatory substantially higher than previously estimated.
The timing of requirements in the area of air pollution control and greenhouse payment of such claims could also be sooner than expected gases may be imposed in the future.
For example, in 2015 the and the duration of the payment period for asbestos liabilities United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris COP21 could be longer than previously estimated.
established a new framework for achieving reduced emissions It is possible that the actual number of future claims brought levels, which in turn means lower fossil fuel consumption.
against the Company and the cost of resolving pending and Such regulations may negatively impact client investments future claims could be substantially higher than expected due in capital projects in the Companys markets.
For example, it to a number of factors, which include: is anticipated that, following COP21, the oil and gas industry X an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and will be negatively impacted in a number of ways.
In particular, exploration may decline which would in turn lead to a significant increases in the number of new claimants: reduction in capital expenditure by the Companys customers.
X adverse changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered Furthermore, involvement in markets which are perceived as by the claimants: being high in carbon emissions may negatively impact Amec X Foster Wheelers ability to grow its business and market its adverse changes in the mix of claimants making allegations: services in the renewables and low carbon markets.
The X increases in indemnity payments or defence costs associated occurrence of any of these events could have a materially with asbestos claims: adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition X and results of operations.
decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero indemnity payments: X indemnity payments being required to be made sooner than expected: X adverse fluctuations in the discount rate e. g. the 30 Year US Treasury Rate used to discount the provision for asbestosrelated claims and related insurance recoveries: Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 183 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued The Companys operations are especially dependent on the use The Company may lose key management or face difficulty in attracting and retaining appropriately skilled personnel of internal data and customer data.
The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with mandatory The Companys future success is dependent on its ability to attract and retain key management and suitably qualified privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations people to execute its projects, such as qualified engineering managers and lead engineers, project managers and other relating to the collection, use and security of personal information data.
Failure to comply with such data privacy highly skilled personnel for their new and ongoing businesses and projects.
In some of the markets in which the Company laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, claims and reputational damage.
Additionally, if data security controls fail, operates, there is still a scarcity of resources for key positions and ongoing competition for suitably qualified and experienced there is a risk that the Company will unintentionally disclose protected, sensitive or personal data, including important personnel from other companies and organisations.
intellectual property, which could lead to the violation of client While the Company may have appropriately qualified and confidentiality agreements, reputational harm and the loss of experienced personnel, it may find it difficult to move them critical data, and which in turn could lead to fines and or claims.
between projects and regions and this could impact its ability to meet obligations under its contracts.
In addition, in Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect certain jurisdictions, the Company may be required to meet on the Companys business, financial condition and results employment or ownership targets for local and or historically of operations.
In addition, Amec Foster Wheeler Failure to adequately defend intellectual property rights or may be unable to provide compensation to such individuals third-party claims of intellectual property rights violation at the same level as its competitors, which may put it at a could result in a loss of future business to competitors competitive disadvantage.
Amec Foster Wheelers intellectual property consists mainly Senior management has contributed to the Companys of trademarks in some of the jurisdictions in which it operates ability to obtain, generate, manage and develop customer and limited patented technology.
The Company has relied and revenue opportunities.
There can be no assurances that on a variety of laws and contractual restrictions to protect such individuals will remain following the reorganisation of its intellectual property rights, including patent protection, Amec Foster Wheelers business.
Prolonged absences by or laws governing trade secrets and unfair competition and shortages of key personnel and difficulties in relocating the non-disclosure and confidentiality provisions.
Companys personnel could adversely affect the Companys The Company protects its intellectual property using any ability to implement its strategy and manage its operations available legal means, including, where necessary, pursuing efficiently, which could have a material adverse effect on its legal action.
However, these means may not adequately protect business, financial condition and results of operations.
See the the Companys rights or permit the Company to gain or keep risk factor entitled Implementation of Amec Foster Wheelers any competitive advantage.
The Company may be required new organisational model involves numerous challenges that to defend claims of patent infringement, infringement of may be more time-consuming and costly than expected, third-party proprietary rights or breach of confidence, and its or may not achieve the expected results above.
success within the Companys historic markets will depend on Failure or security breaches of the Companys information its ability to do so.
Any claims, even if they are without merit, technology IT systems and or data security may result may be burdensome, expensive and time consuming to defend, in losses subject the Company to damages, cause it to cease making, The Company is dependent on the efficient operation of its IT using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed systems and its use of internal and client data.
Such systems, intellectual property, require it to redesign its products, divert including those provided by third party service providers, may management time and attention and or require it to enter into fail and or sensitive data held by them may be lost.
costly royalty or licensing agreements, in each case which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, Information and communication systems by their nature financial condition and results of operations.
are susceptible to internal and external security breaches, including computer hacker and cyber-terrorist breaches, wilful breaches by employees and employees succumbing to criminal scamming from external sources, and can fail or become unavailable for a significant period of time.
A significant performance failure of Amec Foster Wheelers IT systems could lead to loss of control over critical business, project information, client and Company information and or systems such as design tools, contract costs, invoicing, payroll management and or internal reporting, resulting in an adverse impact on the ability to operate effectively or to fulfil contractual obligations.
Such failure may, in turn, lead to a loss of customers, revenue and profitability, the incurring of significant remedial costs and reputational harm.
Amec Foster Wheeler 184 Annual report and accounts 2016 current assumptions, it expects to be able to fund its ongoing Failure to comply with anti corruption laws and regulations, economic sanction programmes or other pension liabilities without seeking recourse to additional external financing.
Actual results could differ from the laws and regulations may result in the Company becoming subject to fines or penalties and the disruption of its assumptions made.
business activities A prolonged period of lower than expected asset returns and Many of the countries in which the Company operates have or unexpected increases in longevity could create or worsen anti corruption laws and regulations that restrict the offer or a funding shortfall in one or more of the schemes, in which payment of anything of value to government officials or other circumstances, the Company may agree, or be required, to persons with the intent of gaining business or favourable make additional cash contributions to the schemes to eliminate government action.
The Company is subject to these laws and the funding shortfall.
If significant, such additional contributions regulations, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act may constrain the Companys ability to invest in acquisitions or of 1977 and the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Additionally, economic capital expenditure, thereby adversely impacting growth and sanctions programmes, including those administered by profitability.
In addition, in certain limited circumstances, the the United Nations, the European Union and the US Office Company may be required to contribute significant additional of Foreign Asset Control, restrict the Companys business amounts to its UK pension schemes, either as a result of dealings with certain sanctioned countries.
Many of these actions by the Pensions Regulator in the United Kingdom to regulations and sanctions programmes establish record impose financial support directions or contribution notices, keeping obligations.
or by the trustees of the Companys defined benefit schemes, The Company is exposed to the risk of violating anti corruption for example, if the trustees take a more prudent approach to laws and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries deficit recovery payments or if the trustees were to determine where it or its partners operate.
Some of the locations in which that a portion of any proceeds from a disposal or capital raising the Company currently operates lack a developed legal system should be used to support the pension fund, which could and have high levels of corruption.
thereby also have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Whilst the Company mandates compliance with relevant policies, laws and regulations including anti-corruption laws, Adverse changes in macroeconomic, market and and has implemented procedures and controls to monitor other conditions could result in the impairment of the internal and external compliance, there can be no assurance Companys goodwill and other intangible assets and may that the Companys policies and procedures will be followed affect the Companys distributable reserves at all times or will effectively detect and or prevent violations Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more often if of the applicable laws or other fraudulent activity by one or an event or circumstance indicates that it may be impaired.
more of its employees, consultants, subcontractors, agents or Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever partners.
In addition, the Company may also be deemed to be there is an indication of impairment.
An impairment test is responsible or face civil or criminal liability including penalties an assessment of whether the carrying amount of an asset or other fines as a result of historical matters related to can be supported by the net present value of the future cash previously acquired companies.
flows that are expected to be delivered from it, either by the Company in its business or from sale.
An impairment test Violations of anti corruption laws and sanctions regulations are requires management to make certain critical assumptions, punishable by civil penalties, including fines, disgorgement of including future sales volumes, profit margins and long-term profits, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, growth rates and to determine an appropriate discount rate to debarment from government contracts and termination of apply to the estimated cash flows.
Other factors that may affect existing contracts and revocations or restrictions of licences, revenue and profitability for example, intensifying competition, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment.
The quantum of pricing pressures, regulatory changes and other industry any fines levied is difficult to predict and may be material.
Discount rates are based In addition, any major violations or failure to comply with on current yields on government bonds, the level of which may corporate governance best practices could have a significant change substantially from period to period and which may be impact on the Companys reputation, including by way of affected by political and economic developments which are shareholder activism, and, consequently, on its ability to win beyond the Companys control.
Should any of the above occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying value of the condition and results of operations.
asset is not supported by the net present value of the cash flows expected to be derived from it.
Whilst an impairment The Company is exposed to funding risks in relation loss does not in itself affect cash flows, it may be an indication to its defined benefit pension schemes that future cash flows will decline.
Moreover, any significant The Company operates a number of defined benefit pension impairment in the carrying value of goodwill may indicate schemes, where careful judgement is required in determining an associated impairment in the related investment held by the assumptions for salary escalation for those plans where the parent company.
No assurance can be given that any benefits are linked to future salaries, pension increases, such future impairment loss would not affect the Companys discount rate, inflation, investment return and member distributable reserves and, therefore, its ability to pay dividends longevity.
The Company expects to continue to operate to its shareholders.
these schemes, although the most significant schemes are now closed to future accrual.
Based on the Companys Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 185 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued It can be difficult or expensive to obtain insurance External events beyond the Companys control could have a negative impact on its operations or reputation coverage and there can be no assurance that sufficient coverage will be secured or maintained The Companys operations may be interrupted by a significant external event beyond its control, including a fire, flood, natural Amec Foster Wheeler maintains commercial insurance in amounts that are believed by the respective entities to be disaster, pandemic or political or social unrest.
Such external events pose a risk to Amec Foster Wheelers employees and appropriate against risks commonly insured against by similar businesses.
However, there can be no assurance that its business infrastructure and a prolonged disruption to its operations could negatively impact its ability to deliver projects the Company will be able to obtain similar levels of cover on acceptable terms going forward or at all.
In addition, even with on time or at all.
A failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery could result in damage to Amec Foster such insurance in place, the risk remains that the Company may incur liabilities to clients and other third parties which Wheelers reputation.
Whilst the Company has implemented emergency preparedness procedures, there can be no exceed the limits of such insurance cover or are not covered by it.
If any of the Companys insurers fail, refuse to renew or assurance that the Companys policies and procedures will be followed at all times or ensure an effective and or timely revoke coverage or otherwise cannot satisfy their insurance requirements to the Company, then the overall risk exposure response to an event.
The occurrence of any such harm or any disruptions to the Companys business could have a material and operational expenses of the Company could increase adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and the Companys business operations could be disrupted, and results of operations.
which would have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Company is exposed to certain tax risks The Company undertakes tax planning that management Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively believes is compliant with legislation and accepted practice.
impact the Company However, recent changes to the tax environment have brought The primary impact of fluctuations in exchange rates for the into question the legitimacy of tax planning previously Company is translational i. e. the translation of foreign assets undertaken by multinational entities, and in particular, there and liabilities into pounds sterling for reporting purposes.
have been several recent tax cases against tax authorities and The Company presents its financial statements in pounds large groups.
Changes to tax legislation or the tax authorities sterling and has a significant portion of euro, Canadian dollar view that the Companys tax planning is compliant could have and US dollar denominated assets, liabilities and earnings as a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial a result of the significant assets and revenues of the Company condition and results of operations.
For further detail, see across Europe and North America.
Consequently, any change note 1 on page 121. in exchange rates between the euro, Canadian dollar and US dollar, on the one hand, and the pound sterling, on the The Company may also be negatively impacted by increases other hand, could affect the Companys consolidated income in its effective tax rate.
The effective tax rate of Amec Foster statement and balance sheet when translated for reporting Wheeler can fluctuate significantly from period to period as purposes.
In addition, since a significant portion of the a result of changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their Companys order book is denominated in currencies other than interpretation, of any country in which it operates, the varying pounds sterling, currency fluctuations may also affect its order mix of income earned in the jurisdictions in which it operates, book, making it a less reliable indicator of future revenues.
the realisability of deferred tax assets, including the inability to recognise a tax benefit for losses generated by certain Transaction risk arises when future commercial transactions unprofitable operations, cash repatriation decisions, changes or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency in uncertain tax positions and the final outcome of tax audits that is not the entitys functional currency.
In the ordinary and related litigation.
An increase in the Companys effective course of business, Amec Foster Wheeler hedges the risk of tax rate could have a material adverse effect on the Companys foreign currency exposure by way of forward foreign exchange business, financial condition and results of operations.
Such hedging transactions do not, however, eliminate the exchange rate risk entirely and may not be fully, or at all, effective.
Defaults by the other party to a hedging transaction can result in losses in the hedging transaction.
Moreover, hedging transactions are entered into based on assumptions which may prove to be incorrect and hedging activities involve the risk of an imperfect correlation between the hedging instrument and the asset being hedged, which could result in losses both on the hedging transaction and on the instrument being hedged.
Use of hedging activities may not prevent significant losses and could increase losses.
Amec Foster Wheeler 186 Annual report and accounts 2016 A further weakening of the pound sterling may impact the Companys overall liquidity as its facilities are sterling denominated.
The Company will continue to hedge its exposure to currency transaction risk and will look to hedge its exposure to foreign currency cash flows through the use of foreign currency debt and forward foreign exchange contracts, thereby exposing it to the risks associated with hedging activities.
If these risks are not effectively managed, there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations.
The uncertainties about the effects of the recommended all share offer for Amec Foster Wheeler plc by John Wood Group the Offer could have a materially adverse effect on the Company Uncertainty about the effects of the Offer, including effects on employees, host governments, partners, contractors, regulators, suppliers and customers, could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company.
These uncertainties could cause: X parties that have business or other relationships with the Company to defer the consummation of other transactions or other decisions concerning the business of the Company or to seek to change their existing business or other relationships with the Company X our prospective customers to decline or delay entering into new agreements or purchasing our services which could cause our future revenues to materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenues to be lower than expected, ultimately impacting our results of operations and cash flows X the attention of our management and our employees to be diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on the requirements of the Offer X our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing employees to be impaired by uncertainties associated with the Offer, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel In addition, our costs and expenses related to the transaction including legal, accounting and certain financial advisory fees and expenses will be required to be paid even if the transaction is not consummated.
The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our share price.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 187 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
