Principal risks and uncertainties Reporting and monitoring The risk committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer Amec Foster Wheeler operates in more than and meets at least twice each year to: 55 countries, serving a broad range of markets X review and advise the board on Amec Foster Wheelers risk and customers.
As such, the Group is subject appetite in relation to the principal strategic risks, taking to certain general and industry specific risks.
account of the current and prospective macro-economic, Where practicable, the Group seeks to mitigate financial, political, business and sector environments exposure to all forms of risk through effective X review and approve the risk management strategy, policies, procedures and processes risk management and risk transfer practices.
X review and report to the board on the effectiveness of the risk management systems The board has overall responsibility for risk management, for determining the risk appetite in relation to the principal risks, X review the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and make for implementation of the risk management policy and for recommendations as appropriate reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management systems.
X review any new or emerging risks and any potential impact Risk management process they may have on risk appetite and the ability of Amec Foster A global mandatory procedure detailing the risk management Wheeler to manage such risks process has been used at project, operating unit, business X review any issues raised by other committees of the board unit and group levels to identify the key risks that could have that impact on the risk profile of Amec Foster Wheeler a significant impact on Amec Foster Wheelers ability to achieve its objectives.
These are recorded in risk registers and evaluated X review and consider reports on key risk issues such as to determine the likely impact and probability of occurring.
The new business and geographical locations for operations procedure is being updated to reflect the new operating model.
or projects Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate risks X consider any internal or external risk trends and that are considered unacceptable.
Risk owners are identified concentrations and given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented The terms of reference of the risk committee have been with appropriate review dates.
amended to reflect the requirements of the 2016 edition The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least quarterly of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
with the relevant risk owners.
Roles and responsibilities Board Risk oversight X ensure appropriate risk management processes are in place X ensure management is positioned to identify and respond to risk X ensure relevant information is raised to the appropriate level Chief Executive Group function heads Head of Risk risk committee Management Risk owner risk manager X participate in the identification of risk X Business unit Leadership teams Business Unit participate in the identification of presidents function heads Head of Commercial risk management action plans X Head of Project ensure action plans are implemented X Delivery monitor and report on risk status Operating unit Leadership teams Operating Unit heads function heads Head of Commercial Head of Project Risk co-ordinator Delivery X ensure risk management process is followed X facilitate risk management reviews X collate and issue risk management Project manager Project team Project risk owners reports registers X promote learning and consistency Amec Foster Wheeler 28 Annual report and accounts 2016 Projects Operating Business plc unit units Group internal audit Principal business and strategic risks The table below shows Amec Foster Wheelers principal business and strategic risks.
Each is specific to the Company and could have a material impact on it.
Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks that may impact the Company are shown on pages 146 to 150 note 19 Capital and financial risk management.
Risk Mitigation Geopolitical and economic conditions Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence Amec Foster Wheeler expects to derive the majority of its revenues from and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase Europe, the US and Canada and is therefore particularly affected by political its exposure to other attractive regions of the world.
and economic conditions in those markets.
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn Changes in general economic conditions may influence customers decisions and affecting the demand for Amec Foster Wheelers services has been on capital investment and or asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business in the development of Amec Foster Wheelers order intake.
These may also portfolio in terms of geographies, markets, clients and service offering lead to changes in the customer base, competition and in the way customers business model.
procure the services we provide.
An increase in competition for new contracts In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to may lead to different, less favourable contract terms and conditions.
assess and monitor any potential impact on Amec Foster Wheelers business Continuing and escalating unrest and insurgency activity in the Middle East opportunities and address potential increased supply chain and, more may have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities in the region.
The transition to the new presidential administration in the United States In January 2017 we implemented a new operating model, involving may cause uncertainty and unpredictability for a period of time which may the reorganisation of Amec Foster Wheeler into four end markets impact confidence and spending levels.
In addition, following the majority Oil, Gas & Chemicals, Environment & Infrastructure, Power & Process and vote in June 2016 for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, there Mining, which will enable us to be more agile and responsive to the customers is uncertainty as to the effects an exit may have on economic or market and the markets we serve.
conditions in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally.
Such uncertainty has The business development team is focused on realising the synergies across the potential to lead to decreased or delayed investments in projects in the our customers, markets, geographies, service offerings and relationships.
The result of the UK general election on 8 June 2017 will also determine the stance Britain takes in its negotiations to leave the EU as well as the future of projects within the National Infrastructure Plan, which could create further uncertainty in UK projects.
Changes in commodity prices This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio of A sustained and significant reduction in oil & gas or commodity prices would geographies, markets, clients and service offerings.
have an adverse impact on the level of customer spending in Amec Foster Improved efficiencies through increased workflow between offices and the Wheelers markets and consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
effective use of centres of excellence and our India operations also contribute The fall in oil prices has had an impact on the investment behaviour of to addressing this risk.
Amec Foster Wheelers customers in this sector, with pressure on capital expenditure leading to a greater focus on smaller projects and operating expenditure and an increase in competition for new contracts.
Project delivery The Technical Functions provide assurance, drive project execution and Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer expectations on project support the development, training and mobilisation of personnel to enhance delivery could result in damage to reputation, loss of repeat business and execution competencies.
potentially lead to litigation and or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler.
In addition, the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
Lump sum contracts This risk is mitigated by having skills and competencies fully aligned with Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable contracts, the project scope.
It is further mitigated by having a clear, delegated authority with the contractor agreeing the contract price at the start of the contract structure in place, combined with the formal global mandatory procedures and accepting the risk of cost overruns in completing the project.
relating to contracting principles and the tender review process.
In addition, the Technical Functions perform reviews, provide assurance and drive Lump sum contracts have accounted for an increasing proportion of the project execution.
Companys revenue and order book and are expected to continue to grow in the medium term.
Staff recruitment and retention This risk is mitigated with a clear HR strategy, which is aligned to the business An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre employees strategy and focused on attracting, developing and retaining the best people could become a barrier to the continued success and growth of for the Company with succession planning as appropriate.
It is underpinned Amec Foster Wheeler.
by an employee framework which describes how we manage our people consistently and we have introduced talent and performance management Senior management departures or prolonged absences could also systems to help us identify and nurture talent.
adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and manage our operations efficiently.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment The uncertainties about the effects of the recommended all share offer teams capable of recruiting large numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler.
for Amec Foster Wheeler plc by John Wood Group could hinder our ability to attract new employees and retain our existing employees.
The additional recruitment and attrition challenges being faced as a result of the planned takeover are being mitigated by retention measures.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 29 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Health, safety, security and environment In order to control risk and prevent harm, Amec Foster Wheeler is focused on Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in activities and environments that have the achieving the highest standards of health, safety and security management.
potential to cause serious injury to personnel or damage to property or the This is achieved through setting of an effective policy and putting in place environment and damage to our reputation.
clear standards which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental management systems.
These activities may involve operations such as design, construction, commissioning and decommissioning, which have potential to cause serious We have put in place processes to assure that our systems work effectively environmental damage, pollution and habitat destruction.
throughout the organisation and health and safety performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continual improvement.
Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering specialists to support projects in implementing comprehensive project management planning at all stages of a project.
These processes are governed by appropriate quality management systems and are supported by risk identification tools aimed at identifying and managing all aspects of project environmental risk.
Environmental licences Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and mitigate Amec Foster Wheelers build own operate facilities and fabrication this risk.
manufacturing sites rely on maintaining environmental licences to operate, Planned preventative maintenance schedules are in place to further mitigate which includes protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable this risk.
Failure to maintain these standards may result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, resulting in criminal or civil action and or financial risk to the business.
Failure to maintain assets and or pollution abatement equipment may result in a failure to meet legally binding objectives and targets for the operation.
Information technology IT Appropriate controls are in place to mitigate the risk of systems failure Amec Foster Wheeler is exposed to the risk that the IT systems on which it and data loss, including systems back-up procedures, data security breach relies fail, are breached or are exploited by cyber attack with a corresponding response plans, disaster recovery plans and globally distributed data impact on the confidentiality, integrity and or the availability of sensitive data centres providing a secure and reliable environment for hosting critical held by the Company.
There is also appropriate virus protection, malware detection and remediation, network security controls and penetration testing and encryption of mobile devices.
Ethical breach Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place to mitigate the A substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance with laws or regulations risk of a substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance with laws or could potentially lead to damage to Amec Foster Wheelers reputation, fines, regulations, including: litigation and claims for compensation.
X embedded policies and procedures X Code of Business Conduct X segregation of duties X management oversight X financial and operational controls X independent whistle-blowing mechanism X appointment of Head of Ethics and Compliance and ethics and compliance champions X anti-fraud and other internal audits X legal team advice X training programmes supporting the Code of Business Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption and competition law X gifts and hospitality procedure with annual internal audits X oversight by the HSSEE committee see pages 70 to 71 Amec Foster Wheeler 30 Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk Mitigation Financial breach of covenant, counterparty and liquidity The Company had been preparing to launch a rights issue of approximately Whilst the Company was, as at the most recent test date of 31 December 500m on 21 March 2017 which would have addressed the risk of a breach 2016, in compliance with the unmodified financial covenants in its existing of the leverage ratio covenant but as a consequence of the recommended banking facilities there was a possibility that the Company would have all share offer for the Company by John Wood Group, the preparations for breached the leverage ratio covenant under its existing banking facilities a rights issue have been suspended.
To ensure continued compliance with at the next test date on 30 June 2017. its financial covenants, the Company has approached its banking group and successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking If a counterparty is unable to repay deposits, fund a loan in a committed loan facilities to provide additional headroom through to the reporting period relationship or fund a position under foreign exchange arrangements then ending 30 June 2018. the company faces the risk of capital loss.
In the event that the acquisition of the Company by John Wood Group The Company is subject to liquidity risk from being unable to generate does not proceed, the Company will consider recommencing preparations sufficient cash from operations for either growth or to repay debt.
If sterling for a rights issue.
The Company has suspended dividend payments until weakens this may impact on our overall liquidity as part of our debt is drawn the Company is generating sustainable free cash flow.
in currency and our facilities are Sterling denominated.
Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to mitigate the counterparty risk by limiting the amount that can be invested with any one counterparty.
Limits are arrived at by ratings and a review of factors such as five year credit default swap prices, economic and national considerations.
Bank ratings are monitored to ensure security of counterparty for both deposits and lending.
If Sterling continues to weaken and liquidity comes under pressure we would seek additional funding from the banking group.
Pensions This risk to Amec Foster Wheelers pension schemes is mitigated by: Amec Foster Wheeler operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, X maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time where careful judgement is required in determining the assumptions for X taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other professional future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment advisers returns and member longevity.
There is a risk of underestimating this liability.
X agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees X close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges See note 14 on pages 138 to 142 for further details on our pension schemes.
Legacy risks The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core businesses remain legal advice.
The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler.
promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may require skills that Amec Foster Wheeler has made provisions for the legacy issues that are are not common to the rest of the Company.
believed to be adequate and is not aware of any other current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
Specialist Ground contaminants remain at some former Amec Foster Wheeler teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in as required.
operational localities where the pollutant may have been as a result of the Companys operations, or the Company is responsible for its clean-up.
In the case of any known contaminated land, strategies have been developed There is a risk that pollution may result in a risk to human health or the to minimise the risk posed by such contaminated land, including asset environment.
There is potential for civil and or criminal action against management and land remediation projects and they remain under the Company for such pollutants.
Asbestos liability There is a dedicated in-house finance and legal resource including a team The legacy Foster Wheeler business is exposed to significant numbers of specialist asbestos lawyers who manage the claims, assisted by National of claims relating to alleged exposure to asbestos.
The quantum of these Co-ordinating Counsel NCC and local counsel.
A claims strategy has been claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against these developed with the NCC and regular reviews are undertaken.
However there is a risk that these loss projections will be The team monitors legal developments in these claims and the strategy exceeded and the provisions could be inadequate to meet the liabilities.
to deal with them on a regular basis.
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against the ultimate loss projections.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 31 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Viability statement In making this assessment the directors have also taken The Company was, as at the most recent test date of into account the Companys current trading performance 31 December 2016, in compliance with the unmodified financial and prospects, the stated strategy concerning the disposal covenants in its existing banking facilities.
However, going of non-core assets and the boards appetite for risk.
forward, had the waiver of the financial covenants referred to The approach adopted for this assessment was a detailed below not been obtained, it is possible that the Company would review of the principal risks by a senior management team have breached the leverage ratio covenant under its existing with representatives from finance, commercial, legal, tax banking facilities at the next test date on 30 June 2017. and treasury, strategy, internal audit, compliance and risk to The Company had been preparing to launch a rights issue consider which of these risks might threaten the Companys of approximately 500m on 21 March 2017 which would have viability.
The assessment of these risks included modelling addressed the risk of a breach of the leverage ratio covenant them in severe but plausible scenarios taking account of: but as a consequence of the recommended all share offer for X varying impacts of specific risks across business lines the Company by John Wood Group, the preparations for a rights issue have been suspended.
To ensure continued compliance X any potential risk interdependencies with its financial covenants, the Company has approached its X the risk mitigation measures currently in place banking group and successfully agreed a waiver to increase the leverage covenant in its banking facilities to provide additional The analysis of the principal risks has been weighted towards headroom through to the reporting period ending 30 June 2018. downside risk and a sensitivity analysis has been used to stress test the risk events most likely to negatively impact the In the event that the acquisition of the Company by John Company.
Specific scenarios have been tested and include: Wood Group does not proceed, the Company will consider recommencing preparations for a rights issue.
The Company X a further fall in oil prices, increasing pressure on customer has suspended dividend payments until the Company is spending and impacting prospects for future projects generating sustainable free cash flow.
X project delivery failure resulting in delayed payments, The directors have selected a three-year period for this viability settlement payments, reputational damage and reduced assessment, in line with the three-year business planning future work process and this also reflects the average duration of the larger X risk of cost overruns on lump sum contracts customer contracts entered into by the Company.
X a substantive ethics breach and or non-compliance with In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of The UK Corporate laws or regulation which could result in reputational damage, Governance Code April 2016 revision the directors have fines, litigation and claims for compensation performed a robust assessment of the Companys current position and the principal risks detailed on pages 29 to 31 X a serious environmental incident causing third party damage for the next three years.
and or injury and reputational damage They have concluded, based on the following assumptions, that they have a reasonable expectation that Amec Foster Wheeler will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this three-year period and that Amec Foster Wheeler will remain compliant with the covenants and undertakings contained within its banking facilities over this same period: X in the event that the acquisition of the Company by John Wood Group does not proceed and the Company proceeds with a rights issue, that it is approved by shareholders and completes before 30 June 2018 X dividend payments are suspended until the Company is generating sustainable free cash flow Amec Foster Wheeler 32 Annual report and accounts 2016
