1 3 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY Byron Grote MANAGING RISK Chairman, Audit Committee EFFECTIVELY VIABILITY STATEMENT Anglo American recognises that risk is inherent Context in all its business activities.
Our risks can have a An understanding of our business model and strategy is key to assessment of our prospects.
Our ambition is to financial, operational or reputational impact.
The create a resilient business that delivers robust profitability volatility in commodity markets over the past few and sustainable, positive cash flows through the cycle.
Details of our business model are provided on pages 9-11. years provides a good illustration of risk inherent While the mining industry has seen some recovery from in our business.
As understanding our risks and the sharp decreases in commodity prices in 2015 and developing appropriate responses are critical early 2016, current geopolitical and macro-economic uncertainties are expected to cause continued commodity to our future success, we are committed to an price volatility.
Such volatility is further exacerbated in a commodity pricing environment that is now almost entirely effective, robust system of risk identification, spot priced, compared to the quarterly and longer term and an effective response to such risks, in order contract pricing mechanisms that used to be the norm, and with the accompanying very significant non-physical to support the achievement of our objectives.
Against that background, the Board has low appetite for risk in major new projects and investments unless they are world class orebodies with competitive HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO OUR cost positions and long reserve lives.
projects are likely to be syndicated with other investors Risks can arise from events outside of our control or to reduce our risk profile and capital requirements.
Each of the risks described The assessment process and key assumptions on the following pages can have an impact on our Assessment of the Groups prospects is based upon ability to achieve our strategic elements: the Groups strategy, its financial plan and principal risks.
Where we compete: optimising and streamlining The Groups strategy during 2016 has focused on our portfolio improving cash flow generation and executing selective asset disposals to strengthen the balance sheet and How we win: maximising our performance focus our portfolio to create sustainable value.
Critical core skills: creating a capable organisation.
Identifying risks Anglo Americans assessment of strategic, A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the operational, project and sustainable Group: at business units, operations and projects.
This is being development related risks applied consistently through the development and ongoing implementation of a Group integrated risk management framework and associated guidelines.
Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish root causes, financial and non-financial impacts, and likelihood of occurrence.
Consideration of risk treatments is taken into account to enable the creation of a prioritised register and in determining which of the risks should be considered as a principal risk.
Determining management actions required The effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.
If additional controls are required, these will be identified and responsibilities assigned.
Reporting and monitoring Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to mitigate key risks and to determine if any such risk falls outside the limits of our risk appetite.
Management is supported through the Groups internal audit programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls.
The risk management process is continuous: key risks are reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risks also being reported to the Sustainability Committee.
40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 4 2 Strategic report A financial forecast covering the next three years is prepared CATASTROPHIC RISKS based on the context of the strategic plan and is reviewed on We also face certain risks that we deem catastrophic risks.
a regular basis to reflect changes in circumstances.
The These are very high severity, very low likelihood events that financial forecast is based on a number of key assumptions, could result in multiple fatalities or injuries, an unplanned the most important of which include commodity prices and fundamental change to strategy or the way we operate, and foreign exchange rates.
We do not consider The principal risks are those that we believe could prevent the likelihood when assessing these risks as the potential Group from delivering its strategic objectives.
A number of impacts mean these risks must be treated as a priority.
these risks are deemed catastrophic to the Groups prospects Catastrophic risks are included as principal risks.
and have been considered as part of the Groups viability.
Catastrophic risks 9-12 on pages 44-45 Assessment of viability RISK APPETITE The assessment of the Groups prospects have been made with reference to the Groups current position and expected We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk performance over a three year period, using budgeted Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.
We look at risk appetite from the context of performance and cash flows have then been subjected to severity of the consequences should the risk materialise, stress and sensitivity analysis over the three year period any relevant internal or external factors influencing the risk, using a range of severe but plausible scenarios.
The and the status of management actions to mitigate the risk.
scenarios tested include: A scale is used to help determine the limit of appetite for each risk, recognising that risk appetite will change over time.
Commodity price reductions of 10% from budget prices over three years with no offsetting foreign exchange If a risk exceeds appetite, it will threaten the achievement of rate improvement objectives and may require a change to strategy.
Risks that are approaching the limit of the Groups risk appetite may Operational incidents that have a significant impact require management actions to be accelerated or enhanced on production at key sites in the Group in order to ensure the risks remain within appetite levels.
Technology developments impacting demand Further details on the risk management and internal control systems for diamonds and the review of their effectiveness are provided on pages 82-83 Our ability to supply products due to infrastructure SUMMARY constraints Our risk profile has changed during the course of 2016, Failure to achieve budgeted level of financial performance as the external economic and political environment has due to cost inflation and interest expense increases.
evolved and progress has been made in the mitigation of Viability statement our risks.
We no longer consider Organisation change and The directors confirm they have a reasonable expectation Portfolio restructuring as principal risks, but we have added that the Group will continue in operation and meet its Future demand for diamonds, Future demand for platinum liabilities as they fall due for the next three years.
This group metals PGMs and Delivery of cash targets as new period has been selected for the following reasons: principal risks.
The Groups strategy and budgeting process is aligned with a three-year view The volatility in commodity markets in recent years makes confidence in a longer assessment of prospects highly challenging The Group will be managing the reduction of net debt over this period.
PRINCIPAL RISKS We define a principal risk as a risk or combination of risks that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity of Anglo American.
In addition to these principal risks, we continue to be exposed to other risks related to currency, inflation, information and cyber security, community relations, environment, infrastructure and human resources.
These risks are subject to our normal procedures to identify, implement and oversee appropriate mitigation actions.
Principal risks 1-8 on pages 42-44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 41 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY continued 1.
COMMODITY PRICES This risk has decreased since 2015 Pillars of value: Global macro-economic conditions Impact: Low commodity prices can result Risk appetite: Operating within leading to sustained low commodity in lower levels of cash flow, profitability and the limits of our appetite.
Debt costs may rise owing to rating Commentary: The target agency downgrades and the possibility of Root cause: The most significant factors of reducing net debt to below restricted access to funding.
The Group may be contributing to this risk at present are a $10 billion by the end of 2016 unable to complete its divestment programme continued slowdown in growth in China and was achieved, which has improved within the desired timescales or achieve other emerging markets, low growth rates in our resilience to this risk.
The capacity to invest in developed economies and an oversupply of growth projects is constrained during periods commodities into the market.
Other factors of low commodity prices which may, in turn, such as weak regional economies, fiscal crises affect future performance.
and conflict can also influence the economic environment and contribute to weak Mitigation: High levels of liquidity will be commodity prices.
maintained during the current cycle.
An organisation change programme incorporating cost reductions has been implemented, while the roll-out of the Operating Model, reductions in capital expenditure and the divestment of certain assets for value are continuing.
The Board regularly monitors progress of these actions.
This risk has reduced over the course of 2016, owing to improving commodity prices and progress in implementing management actions.
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value: Uncertainty and adverse changes to Impact: Uncertainty over future business Risk appetite: Operating within mining industry regulation, legislation conditions leads to a lack of confidence in the limits of our appetite.
or tax rates can occur in any country in making investment decisions, which can Commentary: Current global which we operate.
economic conditions have a Increased costs can be incurred through Root cause: The Group has no control significant impact on countries additional regulations or resource taxes, while over political acts or changes in local tax rates.
whose economies are exposed the ability to execute strategic initiatives that Our licence to operate through mining rights is to the downturn in commodities, reduce costs or divest assets may also be dependent on a number of factors, including placing greater pressure on restricted, all of which may reduce profitability compliance with regulations.
governments to find alternative and affect future performance.
Political stability means of raising revenues, and can also result in civil unrest or nullification of increase the risk of social and existing agreements, mining permits or leases.
These factors could These may adversely affect the Groups increase the political risks faced operations or performance of those operations.
Mitigation: Anglo American has an active engagement strategy with the governments and regulators within the countries in which we operate or plan to operate.
We assess portfolio capital investments against political risks and avoid or minimise exposure to jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels.
We actively monitor regulatory and political developments on a continuous basis.
PILLARS OF VALUE: Safety and Health Production Environment Cost Socio-political Financial People 42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report 3.
FUTURE DEMAND FOR DIAMONDS A new principal risk Pillars of value: Demand for diamonds reduces as a result Impact: Potential loss of polished and rough Risk appetite: Operating within of developments in the synthetic industry.
diamond sales leading to a negative impact the limits of our appetite.
on revenue, cash flow, profitability and value.
Root cause: Technological developments Commentary: This is a new are making the production of man-made gem Mitigation: fide Beers has a mitigation principal risk.
synthetics commercially viable and there are strategy based on a number of measures, increased distribution sources.
The marketing including differentiation of diamonds from of synthetics seeks to place them as being synthetics, and the technology to detect environmentally or socially superior.
FUTURE DEMAND FOR PGMs Pillars of value: A new principal risk Demand for PGMs is impacted by Impact: A negative impact on revenue, Risk appetite: Operating within fundamental shifts in market forces.
cash flow, profitability and valuation.
the limits of our appetite.
Root cause: Future demand is at risk from Mitigation: Anglo American Platinum has Commentary: While this is a new declining combustion engine manufacturing a strategy to grow PGMs demand in industrial principal risk, we see this as a longer and a switch to battery operated vehicles and jewellery sectors through marketing and term threat to the business.
instead of fuel cell electric vehicles, which investment initiatives in research, product continue to use higher volumes of PGMs.
development and market development opportunities.
MINAS-RIO Pillars of value: No change in risk Delay in obtaining the operating Impact: Inability to achieve planned production Risk appetite: Operating within licence extension.
and revenues and or reductions in the cost of the limits of our appetite.
This may also result in loss of Root cause: Increased regulatory scrutiny Commentary: An extension to the investor confidence and reputational damage.
for the licence extension can be expected operating licence has been granted as a result of a major tailings dam incident Mitigation: A comprehensive stakeholder which takes projected production to involving loss of life at a competitor facility in engagement plan is in place to manage the the second half of 2018.
There is also the continuing licence extension and actions are being taken to obtain the Step 3 licences to allow need to manage community issues.
This may to address the ramp-up risks identified.
the mine to reach its nameplate delay completion of the civil works associated capacity of 26.5 Mtpa wet basis with the mines development, while delays in has also started and is expected to obtaining licences would cause operational be secured in late 2018. constraints.
The licence process is complex, with multiple stakeholders involved in the approval process at federal, state and local community levels.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 43 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY continued 6.
SOUTH AFRICA POWER No change in risk Pillars of value: Electricity supply not able to meet the Impact: Unplanned and short-notice power Risk appetite: Operating within countrys demands, leading to unplanned supply outages can lead to production shortfalls, the limits of our appetite.
outages and failure of the national grid.
with a negative effect on revenue, costs and Commentary: Reduced industrial productivity.
There are potential safety Root cause: Anglo American is a significant demand has improved the position, implications, particularly for underground mines consumer of power owing to the extent of our but new generation capacity has not and process activities.
Loss of critical computing operations in South Africa.
The risk is created yet been delivered to the extent systems can interrupt normal business activities.
through lack of investment in generating required.
A complete failure of the capacity due to funding challenges and a Mitigation: A central electricity monitoring national grid is considered to be a maintenance backlog in some generating system enables measurement and analysis of very low likelihood event.
facilities, leading to unplanned outages.
Business units have emergency generation capability for deep-level shafts and procedures are in place to minimise disruption.
Regular interactions are held with management of the state-owned power supplier to understand operational challenges.
DELIVERY OF CASH TARGETS Pillars of value: Inability to deliver the EBIT improvement Impact: Inability to deliver required levels Risk appetite: Operating within targets of $1 billion in 2017. of cash flow and loss of investor confidence.
Root cause: Unplanned and unexpected Mitigation: A number of initiatives are under Commentary: This is a new operational issues will affect delivery of the way and regular tracking and monitoring principal risk for 2016. target.
Delivery will require the support of joint mechanisms are in place.
Implementation of venture partners for non-wholly-owned our Operating Model is one of the key initiatives operations.
SAFETY Pillars of value: This risk has increased since 2015 Failure to deliver a sustained improvement Impact: Loss of life, workplace injuries and Risk appetite: Operating within in safety performance.
safety-related stoppages all immediately affect the limits of our appetite.
production, while, over the longer term, such Root cause: Inability to deliver a sustained Commentary: During 2016 there factors are also a threat to our licence to operate.
improvement in safety performance will result were 11 fatalities compared with from management interventions and training Mitigation: A continued, relentless focus six in 2015.
Although the total initiatives failing to translate into behavioural on safety improvement and safety risk recordable case frequency rate change by all employees and contractors.
management is adopted by executive TRCFR reduced from 0.93 to Non-compliance with critical controls is a management.
Operating standards and 0.71 per 200,000 hours worked, common failure in safety incidents.
guidelines are in place to mitigate safety management has increased the risk, supported by a robust risk management risk rating to ensure an appropriate and risk assurance processes.
response to the increase in fatalities.
TAILINGS DAM FAILURE Pillars of value: No change in risk A release of waste material leading Impact: Potential for multiple fatalities Risk appetite: Operating within to loss of life, injuries, environmental and injuries, at the mine site and in local the limits of our appetite.
damage, reputational damage, financial communities, long term environmental Commentary: Tailings dam failure costs and production impacts.
damage, significant reputational damage is considered a catastrophic risk and loss of licence to operate.
The financial Root cause: Tailings dam failures can result i. e. a very high severity but very low impact associated with clean-up costs and from over-topping, poor operating practices, frequency event that must be treated legal liability claims could be substantial.
instability of pit slopes, inadequate design and with the highest priority.
Mitigation: Anglo American employs technical standards that provide minimum design criteria and operational performance requirements: all of which are regularly inspected by technical experts.
Assurance work is conducted to monitor the controls associated with management of tailings dam facilities.
44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report 10.
SLOPE WALL FAILURE No change in risk Pillars of value: A sudden and unexpected failure of a Impact: Potential for multiple fatalities or Risk appetite: Operating within slope causing landslides and inrush to pit injuries, significant production impact and the limits of our appetite.
or other asset such as a pipeline, leading damage to assets.
Financial costs associated Commentary: Slope wall failure to loss of life, injuries, environmental with recovery and legal claims may be extensive.
is considered a catastrophic risk damage, reputational damage, financial Regulatory issues may result and community i. e. a very high severity but very low costs and production impacts.
frequency event that must be treated Root cause: Slope wall failure can result Mitigation: Technical standards exist that with the highest priority.
from inadequate design, unexpected adverse provide minimum criteria for slope stability geological conditions, shortcomings in the design and operation.
Monitoring of slope mining process, or natural events such as movement is conducted at all open pit seismic activity or excessive rainfall.
Inspections and training and awareness programmes are provided by technical experts, and assurance work is conducted to assess the effectiveness of controls.
MINESHAFT FAILURE Pillars of value: A sudden and unexpected failure of Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, damage Risk appetite: Operating within a mineshaft.
to assets, production loss and reputational the limits of our appetite.
Financial costs associated with Root cause: Mineshaft failure can occur Commentary: Mineshaft failure recovery and liability claims may be significant.
as a result of rope failure, fire and explosion is considered a catastrophic risk in a shaft, flooding, power failure, mud rush, Mitigation: Technical standards exist that i. e. a very high severity but very low conveyance failure or structural failure.
provide minimum criteria for mineshaft frequency event that must be treated management.
Inspections are carried out with the highest priority.
The sale by technical experts and assurance work of the Rustenburg operations has is conducted to assess the effectiveness reduced the number of vertical of controls.
shafts in the Group and the exposure to this risk.
FIRE AND OR EXPLOSION Pillars of value: No change in risk Fire and explosion risks are present Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, damage Risk appetite: Operating within at all mining operations, and processing to assets, loss of production, reputation damage the limits of our appetite.
facilities such as smelters and refineries, and loss of licence to operate.
Financial costs Commentary: Fire and explosion in our Platinum, Copper and Nickel associated with recovery and liability claims is considered a catastrophic risk businesses.
i. e. a very high severity but very low Root cause: The combined presence of Mitigation: Technical standards exist that frequency event that must be treated fuel, heat and oxygen, as well as conditions provide minimum criteria for prevention of with the highest priority.
that can lead to the concentration and underground explosions and fire.
Inspections confinement of these elements, can are carried out by technical experts and cause an explosion including gas, coal assurance work is conducted to assess the dust particularly in underground mines, effectiveness of controls.
Third-party reviews sulphide dust or furnace gas explosions.
of fire risk are conducted at each location where significant risk is present.
PILLARS OF VALUE: Safety and Health Production Environment Cost Socio-political Financial People Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 45
