RISK MANAGEMENT RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Effective risk and compliance management is essential to the Groups operations and strategy.
The accurate and timely identi cation, assessment and management of risks are key toachieving the Groups operating and financial targets.
THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT: Provides guidelines, standards and bestSupervises the operations risk management practice examples of risk and compliance Reviews the effectiveness of management at the corporate and business mitigatingactions unit levels Supports internal stakeholders in key Takes responsibility for the risk and strategic decisions compliance management systems Ensures there are policies, guidelines Maintains the Groups risk register and procedures in place to support the Organises and promotes risk and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls complianceworkshops Following up agreed actions for materialised Systematising compliance processes AREAS OF FOCUS AND risks and action plans regarding the On Site for the review of suppliers, gifts and DEVELOPMENT DURING 2016 Review of operations hospitality declarations and conflict of interest statements RISK Establishing risk management training programmes for key users Strengthening compliance training The focus was on the continued consolidation programmes for employees and contractors of risk, compliance and internal control management processes, which included COMPLIANCE the following: INTERNAL CONTROL Including the Modern Slavery Act in the Compliance Model.
All of the Groups Ensuring SAP transactions are Working to improve from maturity level four suppliers were reviewed to ensure that in full compliance with delegated to maturity level five, the top level of the Risk modern slavery is not occurring in the authority structures Maturity Model business or its supply chains Ensuring that key in-built SAP automatic Expanding risk analysis to incorporate new Reviewing more than 4,000 employees controls are appropriate and effective business areas and widen coverage conflict of interest statements Improving key risk controls and taking action Further information about the Groups Risk Implementing guidelines concerning business to reduce the impact and or probability of Management Systems is given in the relationships with companies employing identified risks, particularly through the use Governance section on pages 88 to 91 and politically exposed persons PEP in the Sustainability Report on pages 52 to of preventive action plans 59.
Further detailed disclosures in respect Strengthening compliance processes through Updating, improving and testing the Disaster of financial risks relevant to the Group are conflict of interest assessment and due Recovery Plans DRP and Business set out in Note 25 to the Financial diligence of all business partners Continuity Plans BCP Statements.
Updating key guidelines of the Compliance Verifying the effectiveness and design of Model to comply with amendments to 1.
In accordance with Risk Maturity Model processes key controls through the On Site Review developed by Deloitte, based on COSO ERM, ISO Chilean Law No.
20,393 Criminal Liability for of operations 31000 and other Standards.
Legal Entities 20 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Groups risk and compliance management framework can be divided into three tiers: RISK GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT Communicating the Groups vision, strategy Ensuring that there are structures and processes Ensuring that the Group adheres to internal and objectives throughout the organisation, in place to identify and evaluate risks, and policies, procedures and controls, as well as all and putting in place appropriate governance developing appropriate controls and mitigation relevant laws and regulations.
structures, policies and procedures to embed techniques to address those risks.
Ensuring that key risks, and performance in managing those risks, are reported on a timely basis to the relevant parties.
Further information on the Board and its Committees is given in the Governance section on GOVERNANCE pages 68 to 119 The Board is responsible for determining the of potential issues and assessment of any Risk management reports are sent to nature and extent of the significant risks that necessary mitigating actions.
the Group will accept in order to achieve its The Audit and Risk Committee assists The Code of Ethics sets out the Groups strategic objectives, and for maintaining sound the Board by reviewing the effectiveness of the commitment to undertaking business in a risk management and internal control systems.
risk management process and monitoring key responsible and transparent manner.
The Code The Board receives detailed analysis of key risks and mitigation procedures.
The Chairman requires honesty, integrity and accountability matters for consideration in advance of Board of the Audit and Risk Committee reports to from all employees and contractors and meetings.
This includes reports on the Groups the Board following each Committee meeting includes guidelines for identifying and managing operating performance, including safety and and, if necessary, the Board can discuss the potential conflicts of interest.
An Ethics health, financial, environmental, legal and social matters raised in more detail.
Committee comprising members of senior matters, key developments in the Groups management implements, develops and updates These processes allow the Board to monitor exploration, project and business development the Code and monitors compliance.
The Code effectively the Groups major risks and activities, information on the commodity and other compliance matters form part of the mitigation procedures, and to assess the markets, updates on talent management and induction programme for all new employees.
acceptable level of risk arising from the analysis of financial investments.
The provision Groups operations and development activities.
of this information allows the early identification See page 88 for more information on our risk management practises RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk and Compliance Management detailed update of key risks, mitigation activities if necessary.
Workshops are also used to Department is responsible for risk and and actions being taken.
assess key risks that may affect relationships compliance management systems across the with stakeholders, limit resources, interrupt The General Managers of each of the Group.
It maintains the Groups risk register, operations and or negatively affect potential operations have overall responsibility for which specifies the strategic risks that future growth.
Mitigation techniques for leading and supporting risk management.
represent the most significant threats to the significant strategic and business unit risks are Risk Champions within each operation have Groups performance and achievement of its annually reviewed by the Risk and Compliance direct responsibility for the risk management strategy, along with any necessary mitigation Management Department.
processes in their operations and for the activities.
The risk register is regularly updated continuous update of individual business The Board regularly reviews Group compliance and annual strategic risk workshops are held risk registers, including relevant mitigation with all relevant laws and regulations, internal at which senior management from across the activities.
The owners of the risks and controls policies, procedures and control activities.
A business review the Groups key strategic risks at each business unit are identified, providing formal risk assessment is conducted at least and related mitigation activities.
The Risk and effective and direct management of risk.
Each once a year at all the Groups operations, and Compliance Management Department reports operation holds its own annual risk workshop all risks are reported and reviewed quarterly by quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee on in which the business units risks and mitigation the Audit and Risk Committee.
the overall risk management process, giving a activities are reviewed in detail and updated ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 21 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED See page 88 for more information COMPLIANCE The Groups Compliance Model applies to Investigating all reports made 4 COMMUNICATION AND both employees and contractors.
It is clearly by whistleblowers TRAINING PROGRAMME defined and is communicated regularly Assessing conflict of interest and due diligence The Group has a comprehensive training through internal communication channels, on all business partners programme to ensure that the policies as well as being available on the Groups Updating and reviewing all employees conflict and procedures of the Compliance Model website.
All contracts with contractors include of interest statements are clearly understood and embedded clauses relating to ethics, modern slavery and Bolstering the compliance programme in the culture of the organisation.
The crime prevention to ensure adherence to the and systems programme emphasises the right to know Groups Compliance Model.
Overseeing third-party reviews of the Crime and there are measures in place to enhance The Compliance Model comprises five pillars: Prevention Model the skills required to ensure its effective implementation.
Implementing policies and processes to 1 ensure the proper management of any nonTHE CODE OF ETHICS The Group updated its compliance training compliance exposure programme in 2016, adding the concept of This code sets out the Groups values and Crime Prevention Handbook modern slavery and examples of its use provides guidelines on behaviour for all Anti-corruption clauses in contracts to the new employee induction and employees and contractors.
Due diligence process, including Code of Ethics global checking Communications news, intranet, posters Conflict of Interest Guidelines Antitrust Politically Exposed Person PEP Training programme induction of new Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines Facilitation Fees Guidelines employees and e-learning Modern Slavery Act Monitoring effectiveness of programme 3 WHISTLEBLOWING 5 COMPLIANCE RISKS AND Annual Statement Employees and external stakeholders can CONTROL ASSESSMENT Please see our Modern Slavery report concerns of irregular conduct or ethical The objective of the Compliance Risks and Statement on page 59. issues through the Companys intranet, by Control Assessment is to identify, develop and email, or letter, or by using a dedicated hotline.
improve internal controls to prevent potential 2 THE CRIME PREVENTION All complaints are investigated, findings are risks.
This assessment is performed at MODEL reported to the Ethics Committee and action least annually.
The security and confidentiality This model ensures compliance with the Identification of risks and controls of employees is ensured for the duration of the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the Assessment of risks and controls, and process, safeguarding individuals and therefore United Kingdom and Chile.
The Vice President improvement of the process achieving greater transparency.
of Finance and Administration is responsible for overseeing, defining and implementing The model is reviewed regularly, both Reporting channels web, telephone the model.
As part of the model, the Group internally and by third parties, and on matters hotline, email regularly undertakes the following activities: relating to corruption it has been certified Methodology of complaints investigation under Chilean anti-corruption legislation.
Training on key risk areas ethics, and reports anti-corruption, modern slavery and Monitoring analysis of complaints and antitrust matters improving internal controls When assessing the prospects of the Group, the Based on their assessment of the Groups VIABILITY STATEMENT Directors have considered the Groups copper prospects and viability, the Directors confirm To address the requirements of provision C. 2.2 price forecasts, the Groups expected production that they have a reasonable expectation that the of the 2014 Corporate Governance Code, the levels, operating cost profile, capital expenditure Group will be able to continue in operation and Directors have assessed the prospects of the and financing plans.
The Directors have taken meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next Group over a period of five years.
into consideration the Groups principal risks five years.
Mining is a long-term business and timescales which could impact the prospects of the Group can run into decades.
The Group maintains over this period, with the most relevant to this GOING CONCERN life-of-mine plans covering the full remaining viability assessment considered to be risks to The Directors also considered it appropriate mine life for each of the mining operations.
Robust down-side to prepare the financial statements on the Moredetailed medium-term planning is sensitivity analyses have been performed, going concern basis, as explained in the Basis performed for a five-year time horizon as well assessing the impact of a significant deterioration of preparation paragraph in Note 1 to the as very detailed annual budgets.
Accordingly, in the copper price outlook over the five-year financial statements.
a period of five years has been selected as the period, along with the impact of the potential appropriate period over which to assess the occurrence of a number of the Groups other prospects of the Group.
This analysis has focused on the existing asset-base of the Group, without When taking account of the impact of the Groups factoring in potential development projects, which current position on this viability assessment, is considered appropriate for an assessment the Directors have considered in particular its of the Groups ability to manage the impact of financial position, including its significant balance a depressed economic environment.
These of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments stress-tests all indicated results which could be and the borrowing facilities in place, including managed in the normal course of business.
their terms and remaining durations.
