How we manage our risks In common with many businesses, AO faces a broad range of risks Risk Management Committee due to the scale and nature of our operations.
These risks have varying Oversees day-to-day risk management: monitors performance: likelihoods and impacts and range from operational risks in our reports back to Audit Committee day-to-day activities: strategic risks due to our high growth and Comprises members from a range of management levels to international expansion strategy and external risks such as the market ensure widest engagement in risk management practice environment and the regulatory frameworks to which we are subject.
Promotes a culture to encourage risk awareness and integrity Effective risk management allows us to identify, appropriately manage Critically reviews risk register: assesses materiality and monitor these risks in line with our risk appetite so that we can deliver measurement of risk and monitors mitigation and controls our strategic objectives and protect value for our key stakeholders.
Supports AO teams in assessing risk Ensures robust risk management procedures are implemented Risk Management Framework and complied with Over the last 12 months the Group has continued to enhance and embed its risk governance and oversight structure throughout the AO Teams business.
We have clearly defined lines of responsibility, accountability and delegation of authority.
Continuous identification and assessment of day-to-day risks and mitigation Communicates significant risks to Risk Management Committee Risk identification and assessment Our risk landscape covers all risks that could affect our business, customers, supply chain and communities.
We have a formal risk identification and management process to ensure that risks from our Board day-to-day operations and from the general economy and our sector, are continually identified, evaluated and, where possible, mitigated throughout all of our operations.
Our Internal Audit function meets with AO team representatives on a bi-monthly basis to assess new and Audit existing risks, how these are being mitigated and how changes from Committee within the business or the wider corporate landscape may impact them.
It is this risk assurance process which forms the basis of our Group Corporate Risk Register CRR.
Our Risk Management Committee, chaired by our Chief Operating Risk Officer, meets every other month to review the status of the existing Internal Management Audit CRR and whether all risks are still current and relevant, and to Committee appraise newly identified risks to determine whether these impact existing risks or require inclusion on the CRR in their own right.
The review includes an assessment of how each risk is being mitigated, its inherent and residual risk and any changes.
The likelihood and impact AO Teams and of each risk is assessed against the Groups Risk Assessment matrix Risk owners which determines its risk factor and resulting risk category which ranges from minimal to aggressive.
This process allows us to regularly understand the strength and performance of the controls in place and to address any potential gaps and weaknesses.
The CRR is reviewed by the Audit Committee at least annually and it is notified of any significant changes in risk as appropriate.
Individual Board risks which are considered to be AOs principal risks are reviewed by Overall responsibility for effectiveness of AOs internal control the Board annually and assessed against the Groups risk appetite and and risk management process capacity.
The Audit Committee annually appraises the Groups Risk Approves risk appetite statement against strategic objectives Management and Internal Control Framework and makes a Monitors performance recommendation to the Board as to its effectiveness.
Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and internal controls Identify Review internal financial controls and risk management systems Reviews and oversees Corporate Risk Register and advises Board on risk appetite Monitor Assess Risk & report Internal Audit management Facilitates Risk Management Committee process process Shares risk management information and best practice across the AO Appraise Compliance checking: identifies gaps and improvements: Discuss mitigation recommends corrective action AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 22 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Our risk management programme can only provide reasonable, not We have broadened our Risk Management Committee meetings to absolute assurance that key risks are managed at an acceptable level allow employees from across the Group to present on risk areas and where possible.
This helps to facilitate open discussion and debate about our risks and helps to foster a culture where risk management Risk appetite becomes part of our everyday decision making process.
Additionally Overall, the Group has a balanced approach to risk taking: we will we have worked with our strategy team to ensure that our risk not be unduly aggressive with our risk taking but we may accept a management process and assessment matrix is fully integrated limited number of significant risks at any one time in order to foster into our assessment of strategic projects.
innovation and to facilitate growth.
We recognise that it is not possible or necessarily desirable to eliminate some of the risks inherent in our We have and will continue to embed our risk culture throughout activities.
However, these must be reviewed against the assessment of our Group, in all territories and areas in which we operate.
other principal risks to ensure that the level of net risk remains within the overall accepted risk appetite.
For example, where it has already Principal risks accepted an aggressive or material risk, this would then limit the Our principal risk categories have been defined as: Culture and acceptance of additional material risks.
The Risk Appetite Statement People: Failure of European Expansion, Brand Recognition and is reviewed annually, in line with the strategic direction of the Group, Damage: IT Systems Resilience: Compliance with Laws and recent experience and the regulatory environment and is subject Regulation and Business Interruption.
The table below summarises our assessment of these risks and This years achievement and future actions how we seek to mitigate them.
This year we have continued to enhance our Risk Management Framework and have allocated roles and responsibilities.
Our Board has approved our Risk Appetite Statement which is clearly defined.
Our aim now is to ensure that this is understood across our business, and there is a consistent approach to risk.
Key risk Nature of the risk Mitigating activities Overall change during the year Culture is a key ingredient in Improved development plans Culture and People the success of the business and introduced to strengthen Risk increase a unique differentiator from our internal succession planning Impact on strategic competitors.
If we fail to maintain AO culture supported by a wide objectives: the culture in conjunction with range of tools and events with a Following the launch of the our growth this could affect all business in the Netherlands dedicated employee events team Culture & Brand areas of the business from our Senior employees receive we now have a new team of ability to attract customers, our people who are learning the attractive remuneration Customers dealings with suppliers and the packages including long-term culture and values.
share options and career structures to encourage retention However, we have Impact on business model: We rely on members of our strengthened the Executive Strengthened operational Group Executive Team and management teams in each component of the Board and People Senior Management Team to also the Group Executive territory give the benefit of provide strategic direction to localised decision making and Team over the year, which the business.
The loss of key has helped to mitigate some reduce reliance on individuals member s of the team would Group Executive Team and of the increase.
have a significant impact on Senior Management Team have our strategy being realised.
a shared responsibility to drive culture throughout the business on the basis of AOs values Expanding into new territories Expansion into new territories Failure of European is a key part of our strategy.
is only undertaken after Risk increase Expansion Failure in these territories extensive research would limit our long-term Expansion leverages AOs Impact on strategic growth and negatively impact existing UK online retailing We have launched the objectives: the Groups finances.
expertise and experience business in the Netherlands in that has been built up over the year under review which Countries many years has given us confidence that Capital requirements are the model can be replicated.
relatively low and investment However in both Germany and is managed in stages the Netherlands there is still Specific targets are in place for much to do.
new territories to enable focus on objectives and measurement of performance AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 How we manage our risks continued Key risk Nature of the risk Mitigating activities Overall change during the year Damage to our brand or There is a dedicated social Brand Recognition failing to achieve growing media team in place to increase Risk decrease and Damage recognition would lead to brand awareness and generate a reduction in customer consumer interest in AO.
com Impact on strategic loyalty, a failure to attract Ongoing marketing campaigns Brand awareness has objectives: new customers or suppliers to raise brand awareness increased over the reporting or affect existing relationships.
through different mediums period and we know our Customers Rigorous monitoring of customers love us and our customer feedback through proposition resonates.
quality processes Impact on business model: In-house PR teams established We still need to be vigilant and People protect the brand at all times.
to deal with press and events AOs main IT systems are Physical and system controls in IT Systems Resilience No change interlinked and critical for place to minimise data breaches ongoing operations.
Therefore There is a continual improvement Impact on strategic failure of one system may cycle in respect of access levels, During the year we have objectives: disrupt others.
housing of critical data, established fail-over systems encryption and penetration to enable the website and Customers The majority of customer testing for customer data telephony to be run from orders are taken through our Software is rigorously tested any one of our sites.
com and therefore and follows a robust release we acknowledge that the significant downtime as a result process before being deployed risk of cyber-crime is ever of a successful systems breach in live environment increasing and is a particular Countries or failure would affect the ability Operation of the IT environment area of focus given we operate to accept customer orders and is continuously monitored, mainly online.
may affect customer loyalty, disaster recovery plans are in Impact on business model: AOs reputation or our place to ensure business can competitive advantage and recover from any interruptions Infrastructure result in reduced growth.
with minimal impact The AO.
com website and The loss of sensitive information internal network is protected relating to strategic direction by a firewall, a holistic view or business performance may of routers and switches compromise our future strategies with potential for individual or the loss of data relating to configuration change, individuals may result in an ICO frequently updated anti-virus complaint and negative publicity.
and penetration testing Changes in regulations or Regulatory developments are Compliance with No change compliance failures may affect routinely monitored both in the Laws and Regulation our strategy or operations.
UK and in Europe to ensure that potential changes are identified, During the year we Impact on strategic assessed and appropriate strengthened the composition objectives: action is taken of our legal team.
Our health AO are supported by a Legal and safety team was relocated Customers team who promote awareness to our distribution centre to and best practice and an Internal be more on-hand in areas Audit team who provide where we perceive the Categories assurance on compliance most risk.
Against this we Third-party legal advice is acknowledge that a Brexit may sought were necessary and bring with it changes to laws Countries any recommendations are and regulations which may implemented and subject to affect our operations.
ongoing monitoring Impact on business model: AOs business is supported by a Proposition qualified health and safety team People Changes to the macro environment and legislation are monitored and implemented promptly AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 24 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Key risk Nature of the risk Mitigating activities Overall change during the year A disastrous event occurring In the UK we have expanded Business at or around one or more of the into an additional warehouse Risk decrease Interruption Groups sites, including our main to increase capacity and distribution centre in each of reduced reliance on the Impact on strategic the UK and Germany, may affect existing distribution centre We increased the number objectives: the ongoing performance of and in Germany the distribution of outbases in the UK by two, our operations and negatively centre is separated into one of which can be used to Customers impact the Groups finances chambers to reduce the impact store stock in emergencies.
of fire or damage Since year-end we have also secured a second NDC in Dedicated engineering teams Countries on-site with daily maintenance the UK.
programmes to support the continued operation of the NDCs Impact on business model: A number of standalone controls Proposition are in place to mitigate a major People event occurring at one of the Infrastructure Groups sites The development of a revised business continuity plan is underway Insurance policies are also in place to further mitigate this risk Further risks in relation to significant financial accounting matters are discussed in the Corporate Governance section on page 54.
Based on the Companys current position and principal risks, Assessment of Groups Prospects Viability Assessment together with the results of the assessment detailed above and the Groups enhanced risk management processes see pages 22 to 25 In accordance with Code C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the Directors are required to assess the longer-term and internal controls see page 52, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation viability of the Company taking into account the principal risks facing the Company.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
The Directors have considered whether the Group will be able Going concern statement to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 March 2019.
This period was The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set considered appropriate due to: the rapid growth plans of the Group and changes in its strategic opportunities: changes in the economic out in the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 35.
The financial position of the Company and its cash flows are described in the Chief Financial environment which may alter consumer demand patterns and the Groups business planning processes which cover this period and Officers Review on pages 33 to 35.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Companys policies and processes for help to support the Boards assessment.
managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures In making its assessment of the longer-term viability of the Group, the Board have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks to credit risk and liquidity risk.
facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, or liquidity.
These risks and how they In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors considered the Board-approved budget, the three-year business plan, cash flow are mitigated are set out above on pages 23 to 25 and in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 54.
The Directors have also reviewed forecast, the availability of a 30m Revolving Credit Facility and the Principal Risks set out on pages 23 to 25. the Groups annual and longer-term financial forecasts and have considered the resilience of the Group using sensitivity analysis to The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company test these metrics over the three-year period.
This analysis involves varying a number of main assumptions underlying the forecasts and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less including, without limitation revenue, margin and working capital, and evaluating the monetary impact of severe but plausible risk than 12 months from the date of this Report.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
combinations and the likely degree of mitigating actions available to the Company over the three-year period if such risks did arise.
The external auditors have reviewed these statements and have nothing to report see the Independent Auditors Report on pages 76 to 79.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25
