STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS Set out below are the Groups principal risks and related mitigation techniques.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks.
FINANCIAL RISKS RISK MITIGATION APPLICATION TO STRATEGY Growth opportunities The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, both internal The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition projects and external opportunities.
A rigorous assessment process is followed to opportunities or may select evaluate all potential business acquisitions, which are subjected to different stress inappropriate targets.
test scenarios for sensitivity analysis, and to determine the risks associated with the project or opportunity.
The long-term commodity price The Groups Business Development Committee reviews potential growth forecast and other assumptions 2 opportunities and transactions, and approves or recommends them within authority used when assessing potential 3 levels set by the Board.
projects and other investment opportunities have a significant Details of the Groups growth opportunities are set out in the Operating Review on influence on the forecast return pages 40 to 43 on investment and, if incorrectly estimated, could result in the wrong decisions.
Commodity prices The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations to be an integral part The Groups results are heavily dependent on commodity prices of the business and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
principally copper and, to a The Group monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the effect of price lesser extent, gold and fluctuations on earnings, capital expenditure and cash flows.
The prices of when it feels it to be appropriate, the Group uses derivative instruments to manage these commodities are strongly 1 its exposure to commodity price fluctuations.
The Group runs its business plans influenced by a variety of 2 through various different commodity price scenarios and develops contingency plans external factors, including 3 as required.
world economic growth, inventory balances, industry The sensitivity of the Groups earnings to movements in commodity prices is demand and supply, possible set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements substitution, etc.
Foreign currency As copper exports account for over 50% of Chiles exports, there is a correlation The Groups sales are mainly denominated in US dollars and between the copper price and the US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate.
This natural some of the Groups operating hedge partly mitigates the Groups foreign exchange exposure.
However, the Group costs are in Chilean pesos.
monitors the foreign exchange markets and the macroeconomic variables that affect them and on occasion implements a focused currency hedging programme to reduce The strengthening of the short-term exposure to fluctuations in the US dollar against the Chilean peso.
1 Chilean peso may negatively affect the Groups financial Details of the Groups currency hedging arrangements are shown in Note results.
25 to the Financial Statements ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 23 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OPERATING RISKS RISK MITIGATION APPLICATION TO STRATEGY Strategic resources Contingency plans are in place to address any short-term disruptions to strategic Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key strategic resources.
The Group negotiates early with suppliers of key inputs to ensure supply inputs such as electricity, water, continuity.
Certain key supplies are purchased from several sources to mitigate fuel, sulphuric acid and mining potential disruption arising from exposure to a single supplier.
equipment could have a Technological and innovative solutions, such as using sea water in the Groups negative impact on production.
1 Longer term, any restrictions mining operations, can help mitigate exposure to potentially scarce resources.
2 on the availability of key The Group also utilises several sources of non-traditional energy such as wind and strategic resources such as solar power.
water and electricity could affect the Groups opportunities Information on the Groups arrangements for the supply of key inputs is for growth.
included within the Key Inputs section on pages 32 to 34, and details of signi cant operating or cost factors related to key inputs are included within A significant portion of the Operating Review on pages 38 to 51 the Groups input costs are influenced by external market factors.
Operating Key risks relating to each operation are identified as part of the regular risk Mining operations are subject to a number of circumstances review process undertaken by the individual operations.
This process also not wholly within the Groups identifies appropriate mitigation techniques for such risks.
These include damage the Board provide variance analysis of operating and financial performance, allowing to or breakdown of equipment potential key issues to be identified in good time and any necessary actions, such as or infrastructure, unexpected 1 monitoring or control activities, to be implemented to prevent unplanned downtime.
geological variations or technical issues, extreme The Group has Business Continuity Plans and Disaster Recovery Plans for all key weather conditions and natural processes within its operations in order to mitigate the consequences of a crisis disasters, any of which could or natural disaster.
The Group also has property damage and business interruption adversely affect production insurance to provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may arise and or costs.
Details of the performance of each of the Groups operations are included within the Operating Review on pages 38 to 51 Project management The Group has a project management system consisting of standards, manuals and Failure to effectively manage the Groups development procedures containing the best practices applicable and enforceable in all phases projects could result in delays of project development.
The project management system supports the decisionin the start of production and making process by balancing risk versus benefit, increasing the likelihood of success cost overruns.
and providing a common language and standards.
All geometallurgical models are reviewed by independent experts.
2 During the project lifecycle, quality checks for each of the standards applied are 3 carried out by a panel of experts from within the Group.
This panel reviews each feasibility study to assess the technical and commercial viability of the project and how it can be safely developed.
Detailed progress reports on ongoing projects are regularly reviewed, and include assessments of progress against key project milestones and performance against budget.
Details of the progress of the Groups projects are included within the Operating Review on pages 40 to 43 24 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK MITIGATION APPLICATION TO STRATEGY Political, legal and regulatory Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations and The Group may be affected by political instability and projects are monitored continually.
The Group operates in full compliance with the regulatory developments in existing laws, regulations, licences, permits and rights in each country in which the countries in which it is it operates.
operating, pursuing projects The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, or conducting exploration 1 activities.
Issues regarding including the nature of any foreign investment agreements.
2 the granting of permits or The Group monitors proposed changes in government policies and regulations and amendments to permits belongs to several associations that consult with the government on these changes.
already granted, and changes This helps to improve the Groups internal processes and better prepare it to meet to the legal environment or any new regulatory requirements.
regulations, could adversely affect the Groups operations Details of any signi cant political, legal or regulatory issues that impact and development projects.
the Groups operations are included within the Operating Review on pages 38 to 51 Identification of new mineral resources The Group conducts exploration programmes both in Chile and in other countries.
The Group needs to identify new mineral resources to The Group has entered into early-stage exploration agreements and strategic ensure continued future growth alliances with third parties in a number of countries and has also acquired equity and does so through interests in companies with known geological potential.
The Group focuses its exploration and acquisition.
exploration activities on stable and secure countries to reduce risk exposure.
There is a risk that exploration 1 activities may not identify A review of the Groups exploration activities is set out in the Operating 2 sufficient viable mineral Review on pages 40 to 41 3 resources.
Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually to reflect The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources estimates material extracted during the year, the results of drilling programmes and any revised are subject to a number of assumptions.
The Group follows the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration assumptions, including Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves the JORC Code in reporting geological, metallurgical and its ore reserves and mineral resources.
This requires reserves and resources technical factors, future 1 estimates to be based on work undertaken by a Competent Person, as defined by commodity prices and 2 the Code.
In addition, the Groups reserves and resources estimates are subject to a production costs.
Fluctuations 3 comprehensive programme of internal and external audits.
in these variables may result in some reserves or resources The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates, along with supporting being deemed uneconomic, explanations, are set out on pages 190 to 197 which could lead to a reduction in reserves and or resources.
CO. UK 25 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY RISKS RISK MITIGATION APPLICATION TO STRATEGY Community relations The Group has a dedicated team that establishes and maintains relations with local Failure to identify and manage local concerns and expectations communities.
These are based on trust and mutual benefit throughout the mining can have a negative impact on lifecycle, from exploration to final remediation.
The Group seeks to identify early the Group.
Relations with local any potentially negative operating impacts and minimise these through responsible communities and stakeholders behaviour.
This means acting transparently and ethically, prioritising the safety and affect the Groups reputation health of its employees and contractors, avoiding environmental incidents, promoting 1 and social licence to operate dialogue, complying with commitments to stakeholders and establishing mechanisms 2 and grow.
3 to prevent or address a crisis.
These steps are undertaken in the early stages of each project and continue throughout the life of each operation.
The Group contributes to the development of communities in the areas in which it operates, particularly through human capital development the education, training and employment of the local population.
The Group endeavours to communicate clearly and transparently with local communities, in line with the established Community Relations Plan, including the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, and local media and community engagement.
Details of the Groups community relations activities are included in the Sustainability Report on pages 52 to 59 Safety and health The Group is seeking continuous improvement of its safety and health risk Safety and health incidents could result in harm to the management procedures, with particular focus on the early identification of risk and Groups employees, contractors preventing fatalities.
The corporate Safety and Health department provides a common strategy to the Ensuring their safety and Groups operations and co-ordinates all safety and health matters.
The Group has a wellbeing is first and foremost 1 Significant Incident Report system which is an important part of the overall approach an ethical obligation for the 2 Group, as stated in the Group to safety.
The Groups goal of zero fatalities and minimising the number of accidents requires all contractors to comply with the Groups Occupational Health and Safety Plan.
Poor safety records or serious This is monitored through monthly audits and supported by regular training and accidents could have a awareness campaigns for employees, contractors, employees families and local long-term impact on the communities, particularly with regard to road safety.
Groups morale, reputation and production.
Critical controls and verication tools are regularly strengthened through the verication programme and regular audits of critical controls for high potential safety risks.
Further information about the Groups activities in respect of safety and health is set out in the Sustainability Report on pages 52 to 59 Environmental management The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks are An operating incident that damages the environment assessed, monitored and controlled in order to achieve the goal of zero incidents could affect both the Groups with significant environmental impact.
The Group works to raise awareness among relationship with local employees and contractors and provides training to promote operating excellence.
stakeholders and its reputation, Potential environmental impacts are key considerations when assessing project undermining its social licence viability, and the integration of innovative technology in the project design to mitigate 1 to operate and to grow.
The Group strives to ensure maximum efficiency 2 3 in water use, pioneering the use of sea water for mining operations in the arid The Group operates in Antofagasta Region of Chile and installing capacity to produce thickened tailings at challenging environments, Centinela, thus achieving high rates of reuse and recovery.
including the Atacama Desert, where water scarcity is a key Further information in respect of the Groups environmental activities is set out in issue.
the Sustainability Report on pages 52 to 59 26 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK MITIGATION APPLICATION TO STRATEGY Talent management and labour relations The Group maintains good relations with its employees and unions, founded on trust, The Groups highly skilled workforce and experienced continuous dialogue and good working conditions.
The Group is committed to safety, management team are critical non-discrimination and compliance with Chiles strict regulations on labour matters.
to maintaining current There are long-term labour agreements in place with employee unions at each of the operations, implementing Groups mining operations, which help to ensure labour stability.
development projects, 1 achieving long-term growth 2 The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues that may arise throughout the and preserving current period covered by existing labour agreements and to anticipate any potential issues operations without major in good time.
Contractors are an important part of the Groups workforce and under disruption.
Managing talent and Chilean law are subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the Groups own maintaining a high-quality employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates and labour force is a key priority for the Group and any failures in its goal is to build long-term mutually beneficial contractor relationships.
The Group this respect could have a maintains constructive relationships with its employees and the unions that represent negative impact on the them through regular communication and consultation.
Union representatives are performance of the existing regularly involved in discussions about the future of the workforce.
The Group develops the talents of its employees through training and development, invests in initiatives to widen the talent pool and focuses on maintaining good relationships with employees, unions and contractors.
The Groups Employee Performance Management System is designed to attract and retain key employees by creating reward and remuneration structures and personal development opportunities.
The Group has a talent management system to identify and develop internal candidates for key management positions, as well as identifying suitable external candidates where appropriate.
Details of the Groups relations with its employees and contractors are set out within the Sustainability Report on pages 52 to 59 and within the Operating Review on pages 32 to 37 Corruption activities The Group employs procedures and controls against any kind of corruption, including The Groups projects or operations around the world open channels of communication that any employee or external party can use in may be affected by risks related order to raise any concerns or complaints.
to corruption or bribery, In addition, the Group has Ethics Committees composed of senior executives including operating disruptions at each of its operations, responsible for investigating complaints and taking any or delays resulting from a 1 refusal to make facilitation necessary measures.
They in turn report such investigations to the Corporate Ethics 2 payments.
Such risk depends Committee, which decides whether any further action is required.
3 on the economic or political All employees in the Group receive training on the Group Compliance Model which is stability of the country in which subject to external certification.
There are also control procedures in place that help to prevent corruption, covering such issues as conflicts of interest, suitability of suppliers, receiving and giving of gifts and hospitality, and facilitation payments.
CO. UK 27 PERFORMANCE Our business model Creating value 30 Operating review Key inputs and cost base 32 Key relationships 35 Our mining division 38 Growth projects and opportunities 40 The existing core business 44 Transport 50 Sustainability report The Groups approach to sustainability 52 Financial review Delivering a strong set of results 60 CENTINELA Copper concentrate crushing plant, SAG and ball mills.
