Risk factors and risk management Overview Risk trends In pursuing its strategic objectives the Group is inevitably While the risks faced by the Group are never static and exposed to risks that could prevent those goals being realised continue to evolve in nature or in threat level, during the year in part or whole.
It is only by taking on the challenge of management have devoted considerable time to deciding upon managing risk that the Group can expect to succeed.
and implementing responses to the following risks where we Accordingly, the Groups policy in relation to risk does not consider the threat levels have increased: seek to eliminate all risk, but to ensure risks are identified, assessed and their potential impacts managed in a costCyber security effective way to achieve an acceptable level of risk by In common with most businesses, we have seen an increase in deploying appropriate controls.
the number of attempts to penetrate our IT security measures, or to attempt to initiate fraudulent activities by deception such Approach as phishing.
The business has intensified its cyber security The Board is responsible for ensuring risk management programme reporting directly to the CEO to respond to this procedures across the Group are effective, for reviewing the increased threat, driven by the IT team but involving all major risks and emerging issues identified by the business, and functions in the business in developing the programme and for considering the potential impact of significant risks on the tracking progress, together with weekly reporting to senior long term prospects and viability of the Group.
Management management on current threat levels and incidents.
are responsible for ensuring risk management procedures are followed, with clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities Terrorism for risk management throughout the business, risk registers Terrorist events and the perception of increased terrorist kept up to date and prompt implementation of agreed tasks.
events have always received serious consideration and To give effect to these responsibilities, the Group operates planning.
The Group has a dedicated security function with both bottom-up and top-down risk management processes.
relevant training and continues to engage highly qualified third party security advisory firms to conduct security reviews of Bottom-up events and our office locations throughout the world.
Such Each operating division has a Risk Committee comprising work covers preventative measures, crisis management divisional leaders and other functional heads, and risk registers procedures and business continuity plans, and working with that identify and prioritise risks identified by Committee business teams to integrate these measures into regular members.
Ascentials Legal Director attends every Risk operational practice.
In addition we continue to work closely Committee to provoke discussion and share best practice with venue providers, external security firms, local police and across the Company.
Each Risk Committee profiles the risk other security forces, to ensure close co-ordination between on impact and likelihood, devising appropriate controls and all parties in dealing with this threat.
remedial plans to avoid or mitigate those risks based on the threat level.
Actions to implement the remedial plans are Brexit allocated to a Committee member to implement, and progress The decision by the UK to leave the EU has created a range of is monitored with update reports back to the Committee.
uncertainty in and outside the UK.
Most aspects of the Group are best served by keeping a watching brief and in preparation Top-down for quick response if a situation were to develop requiring The Board monitors the bottom-up view, to identify emerging action to best position the Company to defend or leverage the risks where Group-wide action is needed e. g. cyber security, opportunity created on behalf of the Companys multi-national terrorism threat.
The top risks and emerging trends are then customers.
The main areas we monitor are impacts on the combined with risks identified during strategic planning, and macro-economic environment, and regulatory and tax risks identified by considering external viewpoints on risks frameworks.
The Groups immediate priority is to support relevant to the business, to form a consolidated risk register.
staff who may, in the future, be personally affected by This is then critically appraised by senior management to changes to residence and employment rights, including EU ensure risks have been consistently rated and that proper nationals working for us in the UK, to ensure we continue attention has been given to different types of risk, classified to benefit from the talents and commitment of these highly as strategic, operational, technological, financial and valued colleagues.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the consolidated risk register, and considers reports from management on the operation of the bottom-up processes, in order to form its assessment of the effectiveness of risk management procedures and the principal risks facing the Group.
28 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks Principal risks The Board considers the following to be the most significant of the risks facing the Group: Risk and potential impact How we manage the risk 1 Macro-economic and geopolitical conditions Customer demand for the Groups products is affected by economic The Groups brands hold market-leading positions in their and geopolitical conditions.
Uncertainty about future developments respective markets and many are closely integrated into customers may suppress customer confidence.
Economic changes may reduce operational processes.
We believe this makes the Groups revenues demand for services over an extended period, with time lags more resilient in the face of reduced demand.
dependent on customer budgeting and procurement cycles.
Political The Group regularly reviews political and economic conditions and and regulatory changes such as those that will arise from the UKs outlook in the main market sectors and geographies it operates in, exit from the EU and change in the US political landscape may to assess whether it needs to change either product offerings or disrupt patterns of trade, reduce demand, impose operating cost structures.
inefficiencies, additional costs and compliance burdens, and may also significantly affect the Groups tax position.
While many of the impacts of Brexit and the US election results are not yet known, the sense of uncertainty exists.
The Group is being thoughtful about how to best position itself in evolving markets while concurrently engaged in active communication with employees.
2 Acquisitions Risks are inherent when undertaking acquisitions and disposals.
The Group takes a disciplined approach to portfolio management Furthermore, execution risks must be considered when integrating decisions, with clear acquisition criteria, careful due diligence and acquired businesses into Company operations and corporate pre-completion planning for integration.
structure including retention of staff, preserving value of assets that provide competitive advantage and realising benefits expected from a transaction.
3 Geographic expansion An element of the Groups growth strategy is expanding in The Groups plans for expansion into new markets are developed fast growing geographic markets.
Rapid expansion presents as part of the annual strategic planning cycle.
Implementation of management, logistical and compliance challenges.
Inadequate these plans involves careful selection of local partners, support plans or poor execution in addressing these challenges may from professional advisers, and regular monitoring by senior damage the Groups growth prospects and reputation.
In most major geographies we have through 2016 appointed an Ascential leader to own the governance and operations for the Group across all brands operating within that region.
29 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Principal risks continued Risk and potential impact How we manage the risk 4 Customer end-market development The Groups customers operate in a variety of end-markets, each The Groups strategic focus on customer retention ensures we stay with their own competitive pressures affecting customer close to customer sentiment and have early indications of whether preferences and spend.
Changes in these end-markets could there is a change in the perceived value of our products.
Customer increase competition, reduce customer spend, make the Groups satisfaction is measured regularly, and detailed usage is tracked to products less relevant to customer needs, or otherwise affect the ensure continued relevance of product offerings.
Groups competitiveness and or profitability.
The Group continues to invest in new product development, and enhancements to existing products, to respond to changing needs and ensure continuing value to the customer.
5 Reputation and performance of top brands The Groups businesses enjoy a high degree of brand recognition in The Groups senior management team devote substantial time to part attributable to the continued relevance of customer proposition its major products, managing and advising the talented operating to customer demand and reputation for quality and service.
This teams to ensure they are focused on priorities and delivering underpins their ability to attract or retain customers.
Each business is operated with a sharp focus on ensuring operational excellence across all brands.
The Group generates a high proportion of revenues and EBITDA from its top brands.
A meaningful diminution in reputation, The Group also allocates capital to products with the highest relevance or performance of the Groups top brands could materially potential to grow both scale and returns, whilst carefully reviewing and adversely affect the Group performance.
extensions into adjacent market spaces to ensure these do not dilute the brand value of the core offering.
6 Venue availability and access The Groups events are held at specific locations on particular The Group maintains close relationships with major venue dates each year.
These specific locations may be unavailable providers, and also maintains contingency plans to move events for use through damage, or may become available only on if necessary.
Business continuity plans are also in place to minimise disruption In addition, various factors may disrupt travel or pose a safety risk, and financial impact.
Our contractual terms provide some preventing both customers and our own staff from reaching the protection against the risk of late cancellation, and we maintain event location, or leading to customers being unwilling to travel.
insurance cover in respect of certain event cancellation risks.
Examples of such factors include natural disasters, risk of disease, civil disorder, political instability, and terrorism.
30 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk and potential impact How we manage the risk 7 Physical safety and security There are risks associated with the safety and welfare of staff and The Group has appointed a Security Officer with responsibility visitors, both in its operational premises and at the Groups events.
for ensuring all our businesses are integrating safety and security The most serious of these, such as fire, natural disasters, civil management into their operations.
The Group has enlisted the disorder and terrorism, have the potential to lead to serious injury support of the top security firms and advisers to support the and death.
conduct security reviews of major events and offices resulting in the undertaking of preventative measures, crisis management procedures and business continuity plans.
These reviews have been, and will be, refreshed regularly, on a Group-wide basis.
The Group also ensures the business adheres to health and safety legislation and Group policies which are reviewed regularly at divisional level.
Divisional policies and procedures also incorporate factors specific to their business model and operating locations together with place of work evaluations that are integrated into business continuity plans.
8 Technology security The Group relies on electronic platforms and distribution systems The Groups IT function maintains and tests network security, to provide customer service.
The Group also relies on IT systems to network resilience and business continuity plans, and monitors manage the Groups business data, communications, and business emerging threats to ensure our preparations and responses are processes.
These systems are also heavily dependent on the current.
We also make use of industry-leading software and internet, both as a means of distribution and for hosting services.
services in support of these activities.
These systems could suffer damage or interruption from a variety The Group runs quarterly meetings with representation from all of causes, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems major products and central Group functions to review technology failures, security breaches, cyber attacks and viruses.
Such incidents security issues and risks, and to ensure appropriate responses are could disrupt the Groups business, requiring management time and put in place.
incurring additional cost to resolve the issue.
This could also result in Each business develops its own clearly defined security objectives transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales in collaboration with the central Group IT function, which are and customers.
reviewed and updated on a regular basis by the senior management In addition, breaches of data security systems or other unauthorised of that business.
access to the Groups data could damage its reputation and lead to a risk of loss of customers, liability for damages, litigation and more onerous compliance requirements from government regulators.
31 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Principal risks continued Risk and potential impact How we manage the risk 9 Technological change The Groups products depend on custom-designed IT platforms.
The Group reviews all major technology development proposals These platforms require continual development to ensure the at a senior level, and manages subsequent delivery through robust services remain competitive, by enhancing existing offerings and project management.
building new solutions to meet customer requirements.
The Group There are rigorous policies and processes in respect of maintenance also develops IT systems to support its own internal operations.
and updates of hardware and software infrastructure to ensure Such technological development carries the risks of poor quality systems are robust and up to date.
implementation, delivery delays, and failure to deliver the expected The Group maintains an awareness of emerging technology benefits such as desired customer solutions, business improvements developments through a variety of sources including relationships or cost efficiencies.
In addition customer-facing platforms may be with existing vendors and independent partners, market research, rendered obsolete by newer technologies offering faster, more and involvement with peer networks.
flexible or more relevant solutions to customer needs.
10 Currency fluctuations The Group receives revenues and incurs costs in currencies other The Groups approach to management of foreign exchange risk than pounds sterling.
Material movements in exchange rates relative is set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
to pounds sterling could adversely affect the Groups reported results and financial position.
11 Taxation The Group has operations in 15 countries and multiple states in the The Group maintains an experienced tax function, supported by United States and sells its products and services into around 150 external professional advisers, to ensure that the Group maintains a countries, and so is subject to many different forms of taxation in constructive relationship with tax authorities, and keeps up to date many different jurisdictions.
with changes in tax legislation and in the development of the Groups operations.
Tax law and administration is complex, and tax authorities may challenge the Groups application of tax law, potentially leading to lengthy and costly disputes and material tax charges.
