30 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MANAGING OUR RISK risk committees, which meet at least quarterly, continues to be The Group recognises the importance of identifying enhanced.
The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year, or more and managing financial and non-financial risks frequently if required, with the objective of encouraging best risk faced by the business.
In response to the risks faced management practice across the Group and a culture of regulatory by the business, it has developed a rigorous risk compliance and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk Committee management framework designed to identify and reports annually through the Audit Committee to the Board.
As part of this process, it reviews the results of the local risk committee assess the likelihood and consequences of risk assessments.
It produces an annual report and updated Group and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate Risk Register which is reviewed by the Audit Committee to assess their impact.
whether the appropriate risks have been identified and to ensure adequate assurance is obtained over those risks and then it is Our risk identification processes seek to identify risks from both presented formally to the Board for discussion, approval and, a top-down strategic perspective and a bottom-up business if appropriate, re-rating of risks.
Our risk appetite is reflected in perspective.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk our rating of risks and ensures the appropriate focus is placed management, setting of risk appetite and implementation of the on the correct risks.
Further detail on our risk management risk management policy.
This is designed to enable our employees framework and priorities during the year is provided on pages 40 to take advantage of attractive opportunities, yet to do so within and 41.
Set out below are the principal business risks that could the risk appetite set by the Board.
impact the Groups business model, future performance, solvency The Group Risk Register is the core of the Groups risk management or liquidity and information on how we mitigate them.
It contains an overall assessment of the risks faced by the we have reintroduced laws and regulations as a principal Group and is maintained by the Group Risk Committee.
The Group risk reflecting our focus on seeking to comply with all relevant Risk Register is based on detailed risk registers maintained by legislation.
Our risk profile evolves as we move through the Sunbelt and A-Plant, which are reviewed and monitored through economic cycle and commentary on how risks have changed local risk committees.
The operation and effectiveness of the local is included below.
Increased risk Constant risk Decreased risk FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES.
P22 ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Potential impact Change Strategic In the longer term, there is a link between demand for our services and levels Our performance is benefitting from priority of economic activity.
The construction industry, which affects our business, the economic cycle and we expect to is cyclical and typically lags the general economic cycle by between 12 and see further upside as the economic 24 months.
However, our longer-term planning is focused on the Mitigation next downturn to ensure we have the Prudent management through the different phases of the cycle.
financial firepower at the bottom of the Flexibility in the business model.
cycle to achieve the next step-change Capital structure and debt facilities arranged in recognition of the cyclical in business performance.
nature of our market and able to withstand market shocks.
COMPETITION Potential impact Change Strategic The already competitive market could become even more competitive and we Our competitive position continues to priority could suffer increased competition from large national competitors or small improve.
We are growing faster than companies operating at a local level resulting in reduced market share and our larger competitors and the market, lower revenue.
and continue to take market share from our smaller, less well-financed Mitigation competitors.
We have increased our Create commercial advantage by providing the highest level of service, market share to 7% in the US and it consistently and at a price which offers value.
Excel in the areas that provide barriers to entry to newcomers: industryleading IT, experienced personnel and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31 FINANCING Potential impact Change Strategic Debt facilities are only ever committed for a finite period of time and we need At 30 April 2016, our facilities were priority to plan to renew our facilities before they mature and guard against default.
committed for an average of six years, Our loan agreements also contain conditions known as covenants with which leverage was at 1.7 times and we must comply.
availability under the senior debt facility was $1,126m.
Mitigation Maintain conservative 1.5 to 2 times net debt to EBITDA leverage which helps minimise our refinancing risk.
Use of an asset-based senior facility means none of our debt contains quarterly financial covenants when availability under the facility exceeds $260m.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY Potential impact Change Strategic We are heavily dependent on technology for the smooth running of our Our business continuity plans were priority business given the large number of both units of equipment we rent and our reviewed and updated during the year customers.
A serious uncured failure in our point of sale IT platforms would and our disaster recovery plans were have an immediate impact, rendering us unable to record and track our high tested successfully.
volume, low transaction value operations.
Mitigation Robust and well-protected data centres with multiple data links to protect against the risk of failure.
Detailed business recovery plans which are tested periodically.
Separate near-live back-up data centres which are designed to be able to provide the necessary services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
PEOPLE Potential impact Change Strategic Retaining and attracting good people is key to delivering superior performance Our compensation and incentive priority and customer service.
programmes have continued to evolve to reflect market conditions and the Excessive staff turnover is likely to impact on our ability to maintain the economic environment.
appropriate quality of service to our customers and would ultimately impact our financial performance adversely.
Staff turnover was at a similar level to the prior year as our well-trained, Mitigation knowledgeable staff have become Provide well-structured and competitive reward and benefit packages that targets for our competitors.
ensure our ability to attract and retain the employees we need.
Ensure that our staff have the right working environment and equipment We continue to invest in training to enable them to do the best job possible and maximise their satisfaction and career development with over at work.
250 courses offered across both Invest in training and career development opportunities for our people to businesses.
support them in their careers.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Potential impact Change Strategic We need to comply with laws and regulations governing occupational health The overall incident rate continued priority and safety matters.
Furthermore, accidents could happen which might to decrease in Sunbelt and A-Plant.
result in injury to an individual, claims against the Group and damage to In terms of reportable incidents, the our reputation.
RIDDOR reportable rate decreased to 0.26 2015: 0.45 in Sunbelt and Mitigation 0.42 in A-Plant 2015: 0.55.
Maintain appropriate health and safety policies and procedures regarding the need to comply with laws and regulations and to reasonably guard our employees against the risk of injury.
Induction and training programmes reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Further details are provided on page 35.
32 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED ENVIRONMENTAL Potential impact Change Strategic We need to comply with the numerous laws governing environmental protection We continue to seek to reduce the priority matters.
These laws regulate such issues as waste water, storm water, solid environmental impact of our business and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality.
Breaches potentially and invest in technology to reduce create hazards to our employees, damage to our reputation and expose the the environmental impact on our Group to, amongst other things, the cost of investigating and remediating customers businesses.
In 2015 16 we contamination and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
reduced our carbon emission intensity ratio to 93 2015: 111 in Sunbelt and 91 Mitigation 2015: 97 in A-Plant.
Further detail Policies and procedures in place at all our stores regarding the need to is provided on pages 48 and 49. adhere to local laws and regulations.
Procurement policies reflect the need for the latest available emissions management and fuel efficiency tools in our fleet.
Monitoring and reporting of carbon emissions.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS Potential impact Change Strategic Failure to comply with the frequently changing regulatory environment could We monitor regulatory and legislation priority result in reputational damage or financial penalty.
changes to ensure our policies and practices reflect them and we comply Mitigation with relevant legislation.
Maintaining a legal function to oversee management of these risks and to achieve compliance with relevant legislation.
Our whistle-blowing arrangements Group-wide ethics policy and whistle-blowing arrangements.
are well established and the Company Evolving policies and practices to take account of changes in legal obligations.
Secretary reports matters arising to Training and induction programmes ensure our staff receive appropriate the Audit Committee during the course training and briefing on the relevant policies.
During the year over 2,300 people in Sunbelt and 850 people in A-Plant underwent induction training and additional training programmes were undertaken in safety.
The nature of the Groups business is such that its cash flows are VIABILITY STATEMENT countercyclical.
In times of improving markets, the Group invests The Board has assessed the prospects of the Group and its ability in its rental fleet, both to replace existing fleet and grow the overall to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the medium term.
This size of the fleet, which results in improving earnings but negative assessment has taken account of the Groups current position cash flow from operations in times of rapid growth.
However, in and the principal risks facing the Group, which are set out above.
more benign or declining markets, the Group invests significantly This longer-term assessment process supports the Boards less in its rental fleet and, as a result, generates significant cash statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern, flow from operations.
Recognising the cyclicality of the business, made on page 84. we undertake scenario planning based on the timing, severity and While the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be duration of any downturn and subsequent recovery.
This scenario viable over a longer period, the period over which the Board planning considers the impact of the cycle on revenue, margins, considers it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the cash flows and overall debt levels.
Based on this analysis, and the Groups longer-term viability, is the three-year period to 30 April Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management and 2019.
This aligns with the duration of the business plan prepared internal control systems, we do not believe there are any reasonably annually and reviewed by the Board.
Furthermore, our committed foreseeable events that could not be mitigated through the Groups borrowing facilities do not mature before the end of this period.
ability to flex its capital expenditure plans, which would result in the We believe this provides a reasonable degree of confidence over Group not being able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Based on the foregoing, the Board has a reasonable expectation The Group prepares an annual budget and three-year business plan.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its This plan considers the Groups cash flows and is used to review liabilities as they fall due over the period to April 2019. its funding arrangements and available liquidity based on expected market conditions, capital expenditure plans, used equipment values and other factors that might affect liquidity.
It also considers the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy capital.
