Additional Information Risk Risks and uncertainties Operating in the pharmaceutical sector carries various inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.
In this section, we describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider material to our business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and or reputation.
These risks are not listed in any particular order of priority and have been categorised consistently with the Principal Risks detailed from page 20.
Other risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a similar effect.
We believe that the forward-looking statements about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identied by words such as anticipates, believes, expects and intends, and thatinclude, among other things, Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 76, are based on reasonable assumptions.
However, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised below.
They relate to events that may occurin the future, that may be inuenced by factors beyond our control and that may have actual outcomes materially different from ourexpectations.
Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Failure or delay in delivery of pipeline or launch of new products Our continued success depends on the development and successful Failure or delay in development of new product candidates that achieve launch of innovative new drugs.
theexpected commercial success could frustrate the achievement ofdevelopment targets, adversely affect the reputation of our R&D The development of pharmaceutical product candidates is a complex, capabilities, and is likely to materially adversely affect our business and riskyand lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other results of operations.
See also Failure to achieve strategic plans or meet resources.
It may fail at any stage of the process due to various factors, targets and expectations on page 223. including failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals forthe product candidate or for its manufacturing facilities, unfavourable Since our business model and strategy rely on the success of relatively fewcompounds, the failure of any in line production may have a significant clinical efcacy data, safety concerns, failure to demonstrate adequate cost-effective benets to regulatory authorities and or payers and the negative effect on our business or results of operations.
More details of projects that have significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could suffered setbacks or failures during 2016 can be found in the Therapy have amaterial adverse effect on our financial position and or results of AreaReview.
For example, for the launch of products that are seasonal in The anticipated launch dates of major new products signicantly affect our nature, delays in regulatory approvals or manufacturing difficulties may business, including investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture of delay launch to the next season which, in turn, may signicantly reduce pre-launch product stocks, investment in marketing materials pre-launch, thereturn on costs incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.
sales force training and the timing of anticipated future revenue streams Furthermore, in immuno-oncology speed to market is critical given the from new Product Sales.
Launch dates are primarily driven by our large number of clinical trials being conducted by other companies.
development programmes and the demands from various factors, In addition, a delayed launch may lead to increased costs if, for example, including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or performed for demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer.
More complex and stringent regulations govern the manufacturing and Failure to complete collaborative projects in a timely, cost-effective manner supply of biologics products, thus impacting the production and release may limit our ability to access a greater portfolio of products, IP technology schedules of such products more signicantly.
Disputes and difficulties with our partners may erode In addition to developing products in-house, we also expand our product or eliminate the benets of our alliances and collaborations.
In addition, portfolio and geographical presence through licensing arrangements and failure to perform on the part of parties to externalisation transactions may strategic collaborations, which are key to growing and strengthening our diminish the future value of those transactions.
Delay of launch can also business.
The success of such arrangements is largely dependent on the erode the term of patent exclusivity.
technology and other IP rights we acquire, and the resources, efforts and Competition from other pharmaceutical companies means that we may skills of our partners.
Disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our beunsuccessful in implementing some of our intended projects or we collaborators or partners may arise, for example, due to conicting priorities mayhave to pay a significant premium over book or market values for or conicts of interest between parties.
In many cases we make milestone payments well in advance of the commercialisation of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup these payments.
We experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical companies in respect of licensing arrangements, strategic collaborations, and acquisition targets.
214 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information Product pipeline and IP risks Impact difficulties in obtaining or maintaining regulatory drug approval for products We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals could delay our ability to our pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, marketour products and may adversely affect our revenue.
In addition, distribution and marketing.
The criteria for establishing safety, efcacy and post-approval requirements, including additional clinical trials, could result quality, which are essential for securing marketing approvals, may vary by inincreased costs, and may impact the labelling and approval status of country and by region.
Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may currently marketed products.
require additional data before approval is granted, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
Factors, including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory science, and different approaches to benefit risk tolerance by regulatory authorities, the general public, and other third party public interest groups inuence the initial approvability of new drugs.
While we seek to manage many of these risks, unanticipated and unpredictable policymaking by governments and regulators, limited regulatory authority resources or conicting priorities often lead to severe delays in regulatory approvals.
We may be required to conduct additional clinical trials after a drugs approval because a regulatory authority may have a concern that impacts the benefit risk prole of one of our marketed drugs or drugs currently in development.
For our marketed drugs, new data and meta-analyses have the potential to drive changes in the approval status or labelling.
In addition, recent years have seen an increase in post-marketing regulatory requirements and commitments, and an increased call for third party access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent analysis and interpretation, and broader data transparency.
Such transparency, while important, could lead to inappropriate or incorrect dataanalyses which may damage the integrity of our products and our Companys reputation.
Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection A pharmaceutical product is protected from being copied for a limited Limitations on the availability of patent protection, the ability to obtain period of time under certain patent rights and or related IP rights, such related IP rights or the use of compulsory licensing in certain countries asRegulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Typically, products inwhich we operate could allow for earlier entry of generic or biosimilar protected by such rights generate signicantly higher revenues than those competitor products.
This could have a material adverse effect on the not protected.
Our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and other pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, could materially IP rights in relation to our products is an important element in protecting adversely affect our revenues.
and recouping our investment in R&D and creating long-term value for More information about protecting our IP, the risk of patent litigation and thebusiness.
Some countries in which we operate do not offer robust IP theearly loss of IP rights is contained in the Intellectual Property section on protection.
This may be because IP laws are still developing, the scope page 57, the Competitive pressures including expiry or loss of IP rights and ofthose laws is limited or the political environment does not support generic competition risk on page 216 and Note 28 to the Financial suchlegislation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 215 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Competitive pressures including expiry or loss of IP rights and generic competition A pharmaceutical product competes with other products marketed by If we are not successful in obtaining, maintaining, defending or enforcing research-based pharmaceutical companies and with generic or biosimilar our exclusive rights to market our products, particularly in the US where drugs marketed by generic drug manufacturers.
we achieve our highest Product Sales, our revenue and margins could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, unsuccessful assertion of our IP Approval of competitive products for the same or similar indication as one rights may lead to damages or other liabilities to third parties that could of our products may result in immediate and significant decreases in materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Third parties may be awarded remedies for alleged infringement of their IP, Generic versions of products, including biosimilars, are often sold at lower for example injunctions and damages for alleged patent infringement.
In the prices than branded products, as the manufacturer does not have to US, courts may order enhanced ie up to treble damages for alleged wilful recoup the significant cost of R&D investment and market development.
From time to time we may acquire licences, Expiry or loss of IP rights can materially adversely affect our revenues discontinue activities and or modify processes to avoid claims of patent and financial condition due to the launch of cheaper generic copies of infringement.
These steps could entail significant costs and our revenue the product in the country where the rights have expired or been lost and margins could be materially adversely affected.
see the table in the Patent Expiries of Key Marketed Products section from page 211.
For example in 2016, our US Product Sales of Crestor fell Unfavourable resolution of current and potential future patent litigation may to $1,223 million 2015: $2,844 million, following the launch of generics.
require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and or could materially adversely affect our financial condition Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator or results of operations.
companies products may also lead to increased competition and pricing pressure for our own, still-patented products in the same product class due to the availability of lower priced generic products in that product class.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection or other related IP rights and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection or other related IP rights may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
Various regulatory authorities are implementing or considering abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars, allowing quicker entry to market for such products and earlier than anticipated competition for patented biologics.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing challenges from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents relating to key products, including Brilinta, Faslodex, Byetta, Daliresp, Onglyza and Crestor.
IP rights protecting our products may be challenged by external parties.
Weexpect our most valuable products to receive the greatest number ofchallenges.
Despite our efforts to establish and defend robust patent protection for our products, we bear the risk that courts may decide that our IP rights are invalid and or that third parties do not infringe our asserted IP rights.
Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, third parties may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they have been inappropriately restrained from entering the market.
In such cases, we bear the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical companies and individuals.
These third parties may seek remedies for patent infringement, including injunctions for example, preventing the marketing of one of our products and damages.
Details of material patent litigation matters can be found in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 185.
216 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Price controls and reductions Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various Due to these pricing pressures, there can be no certainty that we cost control or reimbursement mechanisms for pharmaceutical products.
will be able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our product In the US, there is significant pricing pressure driven by payer consolidation, investment.
These pressures, including the increasingly restrictive restrictive reimbursement policies, and cost control tools, such as reimbursement policies to which we are subject, could materially exclusionary formularies and price protection clauses.
Many formularies adversely affect our business or results of operations.
employ generic first strategies and or require physicians to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where a generic alternative We expect these pricing pressures will continue and may increase.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to limit the use of The continued disparities in EU and US pricing systems could lead branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
to marked price differentials between regions, which, by way of the In addition, patients are seeing changes in the design of their health plan implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms, benets and may experience variation in how their plans cover their increasesthe pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The importation medications, including increases in the out-of-pocket payments for their ofpharmaceutical products from countries where prices are low due branded medications.
Patient out-of-pocket spending is generally in the togovernment price controls, or other market dynamics, to countries form of a co-payment or co-insurance, but there is a growing trend towards whereprices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and may high deductible health plans that require that patients pay the full list price increase.
Strengthened collaboration by governments may accelerate of their drugs and services until they meet certain out-of-pocket thresholds.
thedevelopment of further cost-containment policies such as joint Ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical industry, focused largely on procurement.
Increased and simplied access to national and regional pricing, is placing increased emphasis on the value of medications.
This prices in markets and the publication of these prices in centralised scrutiny will likely continue across many stakeholders, including databases have facilitated the uptake and efficiency of price referencing policymakers and legislators.
The new US political leadership has initiated various legislative and policy processes that could affect the ACA.
US prescription drug costs and importation policies could be among the policy proposals considered in initial steps to repeal and replace the ACA.
In addition to addressing the ACA directly, lawmaker and policymaker proposals are also discussing a variety of other related changes relating to, for example, tax and Medicare reform.
For more information, please see Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 13.
Currently it is difficult to predict what specic proposals may be directed at existing laws and regulations including the ACA or the Medicare Part D program and to determine the implications for the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry.
This uncertainty could impact our ability to execute our plans, strategies, and business operations.
However, signicantly modifying existing laws and regulations, including the ACA and those relating to drug pricing and importation, could affect private health insurance, coverage through Medicaid and the health insurance exchange marketplaces, Medicare coverage and savings provisions, and other facets of the US healthcare market, with potentially significant impacts on the pharmaceutical industry.
In Europe, the industry continues to be exposed to various ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
There is a trend towards increasing transparency and comparison of prices among EU Member States which may eventually lead to a change in the overall pricing and reimbursement landscape.
In Emerging Markets, governments are increasingly controlling pricing in the self-pay sector and favouring locally manufactured drugs.
In addition, the emergence of price referencing is seen in some markets.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efcacy ofa product at, or post, launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly beingused to assess the clinical effect, as well as cost-effectiveness, ofproducts in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to increase efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how pricing pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 13 and overleaf in the following risk factor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 217 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Economic, regulatory and political pressures Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, and and financial factors both globally and in individual countries.
situations and or resulting events, depending on their severity, could adversely affect our supply and or distribution chain in the affected A sustained global economic downturn may further exacerbate pressure countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers to purchase our from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and medicines.
This could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
volumes of sales in response to pressures on budgets, and may cause a slowdown or a decline in growth in some markets.
Those most severely While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies to impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle manage the risk of not being able to access a sustainable ow of liquid their debts through, for example, the issuance of government bonds which funds see the Financial risk management policies section of the Financial might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt.
Other customers Review from page 76, we cannot be certain that these will be as effective may cease to trade, which may result in losses from writing off debts, as they are intended to be, in particular in the event of a global liquidity or a reduction in demand for products.
In addition, open positions where we are owed money and investments we have made in financial and non-financial institutions or We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable ow of money market funds cannot be guaranteed to be recoverable.
Additionally, liquid funds due to the high xed costs of operating our business and the if we need access to external sources of nancing to sustain and or grow long and uncertain development cycles of our products.
In a sustained our business, such as the debt or equity capital financial markets, this may economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal may cease to not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access monies a severe and or sustained economic downturn.
This may, for instance, be owed to us without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
the case in the event of any default by the Company on its debt obligations, More than 90% of our cash investments are managed centrally and are which may materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in invested in collateralised bank deposits, xed income securities in the future or our financial condition in general.
Further information on debt government, financial and non-financial securities and AAA credit rated funding arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management institutional money market funds.
Money market funds are backed by policies section of the Financial Review from page 76. institutions in the US and the EU, which, in turn, invest in other funds, It is too early to judge the impact of Brexit as it is unclear as to the trading including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is a mix of relationships the UK will be able to negotiate with the EU and other US and EU sovereign default risk, financial institution and non-financial significant trading partners.
Any deterioration in market access or trading institution default risk.
terms including customs duties, VAT or other tariffs that constitute real cost On 23 June 2016, the UK held a remain-or-leave referendum on the or delay to the movement of goods and increased administration may UKs membership within the EU, the outcome of which was a decision materially adversely impact our financial performance.
for the UK to exit from the EU Brexit.
A process of negotiation will likely determine the future terms of the UKs relationship with the EU, as well as whether the UK will be able to continue to benefit from the EUs free trade and similar arrangements.
Until the Brexit negotiation process is initiated and completed, it is difficult to anticipate the potential impact on AstraZenecas market share, sales, profitability and results of operations.
The Group operates from a global footprint and retains exibility to adapt to changing circumstances.
The uncertainty before, during and after the period of negotiation is also expected to increase volatility and may have an economic impact, particularly in the UK and Eurozone.
The Board reviews the potential impact of Brexit as an integral part of its Principal Risks as outlined from page 20 rather than as a stand-alone risk.
As the process of Brexit evolves, the Board will continue to assess its impact on the Company.
218 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Failures or delays in the quality and execution of our commercial strategies Commercial success of our Growth Platforms are critical factors in Failure to execute our commercial strategies could materially adversely sustaining or increasing global Product Sales and replacing lost Product impact our business or results of operations.
Sales due to patent expiry.
The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth product involves substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may be unable to fully launch stocks and other items.
We may ultimately be unable to achieve recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially adversely commercial success for various reasons including difficulties in affect our business or results of operations.
manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, the development or commercialisation in a timely manner, the impact of price methods of distributing and marketing biologics could materially adversely control measures imposed by governments and healthcare authorities, impact our revenues from the sales of biologics medicines, such as the outcome of negotiations with third party payers, erosion of IP rights, Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
including infringement by third parties, failure to show a differentiated product prole and changes in prescribing habits.
The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in Emerging Markets or materialisation of the risks and challenges of doing business The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small in such markets, including inadequate protection against crime including molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the counterfeiting, corruption and fraud or inadvertent breaches of local and mode of administration, technical aspects of the product, and rapidly international law may materially adversely affect our reputation, business changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
We face particular challenges in Emerging Markets, including: Integration processes may also result in business disruption, diversion of More volatile economic conditions and or political environments.
management resources, the loss of key employees and other issues, such Competition from multinational and local companies with existing as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities due to the integration of The need to identify and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales an acquired business could cause deterioration in our credit rating and and marketing.
result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
We may issue Poor IP protection.
additional shares to pay for acquired businesses, which would result Inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption in the dilution of our then existing shareholders.
The need to impose developed market compliance standards.
The need to meet a more diverse range of national regulatory, clinical, manufacturing and distribution requirements.
Potential inadvertent breaches of local and international law.
Not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel.
difficulty in identifying the most effective sales and marketing channels and routes to market.
Intervention by national governments or regulators restricting market access and or introducing adverse price controls.
difficulty in managing local partnerships such as co-promotion and co-marketing: both driving performance and adhering to AstraZenecas compliance standards which are often higher than the market norm.
difficulties in cash repatriation due to strict foreign currency controls and lack of hard currency reserves in some Emerging Markets.
Complexity inherent within a direct exports business from UK and Sweden operations to countries where we do not have a legal entity.
We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses or enter into other strategic transactions.
The integration of an acquired business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
We may also experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
Disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our collaborators or partners may also arise, often due to conicting priorities or conicts of interest between parties.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 219 Additional Information Risk continued Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure to maintain supply of compliant, quality product We may experience difficulties, delays and interruptions in the difficulties with manufacturing and supply, forecasting, distribution or third manufacturing and supply of our products for various reasons, including: party suppliers may result in product shortages, which may lead to lost Product Sales and materially adversely affect our reputation and revenues.
Demand signicantly in excess of forecast demand, which may lead Even slight variations in components or any part of the manufacturing to supply shortages this is particularly challenging before launch.
process may lead to a product that is non-compliant and does not meet Supply chain disruptions, including those due to natural or man-made quality standards.
This could lead to recalls, spoilage, product shortage, disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor.
regulatory action and or reputational harm.
Delays in construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products the complexities associated with biologics facilities, especially for drug substance, increases the probability of delay.
The inability to supply products due to a product quality failure or regulatory agency compliance action such as licence withdrawal, product recall or product seizure.
Other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.
We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as raw materials for example, the API in some of our medicines and drug substances and or nished drug products for some of our biologics medicines, equipment, formulated drugs and packaging, and services, all of which are key to our operations.
Many of these goods are difficult to substitute in a timely manner or at all.
We expect that external capacity for biologics drug substance production will remain constrained for the next few years and, accordingly, may not be readily available for supplementary production in the event that we experience an unforeseen need for such capacity.
Illegal trade in our products The illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is widely recognised by Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products industry, non-governmental organisations and governmental authorities as a result of illegal trade could materially adversely affect our reputation to be increasing.
Illegal trade includes counterfeiting, theft and illegal and financial performance.
In addition, undue or misplaced concern diversion that is, when our products are found in a market where we did about this issue may cause some patients to stop taking their medicines, not send them and where they are not approved or not permitted allowed with consequential risks to their health.
Authorities may take action, to be sold.
There is a risk to public health when illegally traded products financial or otherwise, if they believe we are liable for breaches in our enter the supply chain, as well as associated financial risk.
Authorities and own supply chains.
the public expect us to help reduce opportunities for illegal trade in our There is also a direct financial loss when, for example, counterfeit and or products through securing the integrity of our supply chain, surveillance, illegally diverted products replace sales of genuine products or genuine investigation and supporting legal action against those found to be products are recalled following discovery of counterfeit products.
Reliance on third party goods and services Many of our business-critical operations, including certain R&D processes, The failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the IT systems, HR, finance, tax and accounting services have been required level of quality, or the failure of outsource providers to cooperate with outsourced to third party providers.
We are thus heavily reliant on these each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of third parties not just to deliver timely and high quality services but also to operations.
Moreover, the failure of these third parties to operate in an ethical comply with applicable laws and regulations and adhere to our ethical manner could adversely impact our reputation both internally and externally business expectations from third party providers.
or even result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected by disruptions caused by our failure to successfully manage either the integration of outsourced services or the transition process of insourcing services from third parties.
For instance, insourcing some of the previously outsourced services into our service centre in Chennai, India and Guadalajara, Mexico may result in deterioration of the quality of service or deployment of resources by these third parties.
220 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure of information security, data protection and cybercrime We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including breaches of data business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and security or cybersecurity, or failure to integrate new and existing IT systems, sales capabilities and are an important means of safeguarding and could harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our financial communicating data, including critical or sensitive information, the condition or results of operations.
condentiality and integrity of which we rely on.
While we invest heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may be Examples of sensitive information that we protect include clinical trial unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could records patient names and treatments, personal information employee result in disclosure of condential information, damage to our reputation, bank details, home address, IP related to manufacturing process and regulatory penalties, financial losses and or other costs.
compliance, key research science techniques, AstraZeneca property The inability to effectively back up and restore data could lead to theft and privileged access rights to perform IT tasks.
permanent loss of data that could result in non-compliance with The size and complexity of our IT systems, and those of our third party applicable laws and regulations.
vendors including outsource providers with whom we contract, have We and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our signicantly increased over the past decade and this makes such systems information security systems.
Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and security breaches from sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range attacks by malicious third parties, or from intentional or inadvertent actions of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, hacktivists and others.
by our employees or vendors.
From time to time we experience intrusions, including as a result of significant changes in the business footprint and the implementation of the computer-related malware.
IT strategy, including the creation and use of captive offshore Global Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to the unauthorised Technology Centres, could lead to temporary loss of capability.
or unintentional public disclosure of sensitive information such as We increasingly use the internet, digital content, social media, mobile personally identiable information on employees, healthcare professionals applications and other forms of new technology to communicate internally or patients, such as those enrolled in our clinical trials, which may damage and externally.
The accessibility and instantaneous nature of interactions our reputation, adversely affect our business or results of operations and with such media may facilitate or exacerbate the risk of data leakages from expose us to legal risks and or additional legal obligations.
It may also lead to false or misleading statements involuntary public disclosure of commercially sensitive information or an being made about AstraZeneca, which may damage our reputation.
As information loss could adversely affect our business or results of existing social media platforms expand and evolve and new social media operations.
In addition, negative posts or comments about us or, for platforms emerge, it becomes increasingly challenging to identify new example, the safety of our products on social media websites or other points of entry and to put structures in place to secure and protect digital channels could harm our reputation.
Failure of critical processes Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the Failure of critical processes may result in an inability to research, failure of critical processes within the Company or at third parties on whom manufacture or supply products to patients.
AstraZeneca has developed we are reliant.
a Business Resilience framework which is designed to mitigate such risks.
However, there is no guarantee that these measures will be sufficient to The business faces threats to business continuity from many directions.
Examples of material threats include: This may expose the Company to litigation and or regulatory action which Disruption to our business if there is instability in a particular geographic may result in fines, loss of revenue and adversely affect the Companys region, including as a result of war, terrorism, riots, unstable financial results.
governments, civil insurrection or social unrest.
Natural disasters in areas of the world prone to extreme weather events and earthquakes.
Cyber threats similar to those detailed in the Failure of information security, data protection and cybercrime section above.
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost-reduction We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the measures, either through the successful implementation of employee relations processes including consultation, engagement, talent business.
However, anticipated cost savings and other benets from these programmes are based on estimates and the actual savings may vary management, recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially signicantly.
In particular, these cost-reduction measures are often based on current conditions and cannot always take into account any future adversely affect our business or results of operations.
changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new business developments or wage or price increases.
Failure to attract and retain key personnel, and engage successfully with our employees We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a The inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may weaken our diverse range of skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives.
succession plans for critical positions in the medium term, may materially adversely affect the implementation of our strategic objectives and could We face intense competition for well-qualied individuals, as the supply of ultimately impact our business or results of operations.
people with specic skills and significant leadership potential or in specic geographic regions may be limited.
Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to business disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of productivity and or The successful delivery of our business objectives is dependent on high increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which could ultimately materially levels of engagement, commitment and motivation of the workforce.
adversely affect our business or results of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 221 Additional Information Risk continued Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Our many business operations are subject to a wide range of laws, rules Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations: manage and regulations from governmental and non-governmental bodies around our liabilities: or to adequately anticipate or proactively manage emerging the world.
policy and legal developments could materially adversely affect our licence to operate, or results of operations: adversely affect our reputation: Any failure to comply with these applicable laws, rules and regulations cause harm to people or the environment: and or lead to fines or other may result in us being investigated by relevant agencies and authorities penalties.
For example, once a product has been approved for marketing and or in legal proceedings being led against us.
Such investigations by the regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and or proceedings could result in us becoming subject to civil or criminal regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing sanctions and or being forced to pay fines or damages.
If regulatory issues concerning compliance authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any with environmental, current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety failure to comply with continuing regulatory oversight and this could monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as affect us, whether such failure is our own or that of our contractors or pharmacovigilance arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, external partners.
product recalls and seizures, and interruption of production, which could Material examples of statutes, rules and regulations impacting business create product shortages and delays in new product approvals, and operations include: negatively impact patient access.
Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice.
Local, national and international environment or occupational health and safety laws and regulations.
Trade control laws governing our imports and exports including nationally and internationally recognised trade agreements, embargoes, trade and economic sanctions and anti-boycott requirements.
Competition laws and regulations, including challenges from competition authorities to patent settlement agreements and private damages actions.
Rules and regulations established to promote ethical supply chain management.
Financial regulations including, but not limited to, external financial reporting, taxation and money laundering.
Disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals under the Sunshine Act and EFPIA legislation.
Appropriate disclosure of community support, patient group support and product donations.
We have environmental and or occupational health and safety-related liabilities at some current, formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
For more information on the most significant of these and for details on other significant litigation matters, please refer to Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 185.
Safety and efcacy of marketed products is questioned Our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efcacy or Serious safety concerns or adverse events relating to our products could safety of a new product once in broader clinical use can only be based on lead to product recalls, seizures, loss of product approvals and interruption data available at that time, which is inherently limited due to relatively short of supply and could materially adversely impact patient access, our periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples.
Any unforeseen safety concerns or adverse events relating to our products significant product liability claims could also arise which could be costly, or failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to provision of divert management attention or damage our reputation and demand for appropriate warnings concerning the dangers and risks of our products our products.
that result in injuries could expose us to large product liability damages Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future product liability claims, settlements and awards, particularly in the US.
Adverse publicity claims could subject us to enhanced damages, require us to make relating to the safety of a product or of other competing products may significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and increase the risk of product liability claims.
could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of Details of material product liability litigation matters can be found in Note 28 operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by to the Financial Statements from page 185. insurance.
For more information, see the Limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 224.
222 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations We may be subject to various product liability, consumer commercial, Governmental investigations, for example under the Foreign Corrupt anti-trust, environmental, employment or tax litigation or other legal Practices Act or federal or state False Claims Acts or other types proceedings and governmental investigations.
Litigation, particularly in the of legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert US, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages management attention, or damage our reputation and demand for our can result from an adverse verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs may claim products.
Unfavourable resolution of current and similar future proceedings enhanced damages in extremely high amounts.
In particular, the marketing, against us could subject us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other promotional, clinical and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, monetary or non-monetary remedies, including enhanced damages, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, litigation and proceedings and could materially adversely affect our business or results governmental investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have of operations.
been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 185 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
Failure to adhere to increasingly stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and enforcement Despite taking measures to prevent breaches of applicable anti-bribery of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
and anti-corruption laws by our personnel and associated third parties, breaches may still occur, potentially resulting in the imposition of significant In the UK, the Bribery Act 2010 has extensive extra territorial application, penalties, such as fines, the requirement to comply with monitoring or and imposes organisational liability for any bribe paid by persons or entities self-reporting obligations, or debarment or exclusion from government associated with an organisation where the organisation failed to have sales or reimbursement programmes, any of which could materially adequate preventative controls in place at the time of the offence.
In the adversely affect our reputation, business or results of operations.
US, there has been significant enforcement activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC and DOJ against US companies and non-US companies listed in the US.
China, Brazil, India and other countries are also enforcing their own anti-bribery laws more aggressively and or adopting tougher new measures.
We have been the subject of anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject to informal enquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental ofcials interact with us in various roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Details of these matters are included in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 185.
FRQRPLF DQG QDQFLDO ULVNV Impact Failure to achieve strategic plans or meet targets and expectations We may from time to time communicate our business strategy or our There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or expectations will targets or expectations regarding our future financial or other performance materialise on the expected timeline or at all.
Actual results may deviate for example, the expectations described in Future prospects in the materially and adversely from any such target or expectation, including if Financial Review on page 76.
All such statements are of a forward-looking one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying any such target nature and are based on assumptions and judgements we make, all of or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or in part.
which are subject to significant inherent risks and uncertainties, including those that we are unaware of and or that are beyond our control.
Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy, whether determined by internal or external risk factors, may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations and, in turn, materially damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 223 Additional Information Risk continued FRQRPLF DQG QDQFLDO ULVNV Impact Unexpected deterioration in the Companys financial position A wide range of financial risks could result in a material deterioration in the Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into Companys financial position.
US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
Some of our subsidiaries import and export goods and As a global business, currency uctuations can signicantly affect our services in currencies other than their own functional currency, and so results of operations, which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately 35% the financial results of such subsidiaries could be affected by currency of our global 2016 Product Sales were in the US, which is expected to uctuations arising between the transaction and settlement dates.
In remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Product Sales addition, there are foreign exchange differences arising on the translation in other countries are predominantly in currencies other than the US dollar, of investments in subsidiaries.
including the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi and Australian dollar.
We have significant investments in goodwill and intangible assets as Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant investments in a result of our acquisitions of various businesses and our purchases intangible assets, including goodwill.
The nature of the biopharmaceutical of certain assets, such as product development and marketing rights.
business is high risk and requires that we invest in a large number of Impairment losses may materially adversely affect our financial condition projects in an effort to develop a successful portfolio of approved products.
Details of the carrying values of goodwill and Our ability to realise value on these significant investments is often intangible assets, and the estimates and assumptions we make in our contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals, market impairment testing, are included in Notes 8 and 9 to the Financial acceptance, competition and legal developments.
As such, in the course Statements from page 156. of our many acquisitions and R&D activities, we expect that some of our intangible assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in Financial liabilities arising due to product liability or other litigation, in respect the future.
of which we do not have insurance coverage, or if an insurers denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, could require us to make significant Inherent variability of biologics manufacturing increases the risk of write-offs provisions relating to legal proceedings and could materially adversely of these product batches.
Due to the value of the materials used, the affect our financial condition or results of operations.
carrying amount of biological products is much higher than that of small molecule products.
As we continue to grow our biologics business, we also For more information, please see the Adverse outcome of litigation and or increase the risk of potential impairment charges.
governmental investigations risk on page 223.
In recent years, the costs associated with product liability litigation The resolution of tax disputes regarding the profits to be taxed in individual have increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, territories can result in a reallocation of profits between jurisdictions and an pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
To contain increase or decrease in related tax costs, and has the potential to affect our insurance costs, we have continued to adjust our coverage prole, cash ows, EPS and post-tax earnings.
Claims, regardless of their merits or accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
The Company has their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and may adversely not held any material product liability insurance since February 2006.
addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may If any double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially in a reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
For example, territory where a member of the AstraZeneca Group is involved in a taxation product liability litigation cases relating to Crestor and Nexium in the US dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such are not covered by third party product liability insurance.
See Note 28 withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our financial to the Financial Statements from page 185 for details.
condition or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conicting dispute or a failure by tax authorities to agree through competent authority claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section of the countries.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have Financial Review on page 76 for tax risk management policies and Note 28 double tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which provide a to the Financial Statements from page 185 for details of current tax disputes.
framework for mitigating the incidence of double taxation on our Changes in tax regimes could result in a material impact on the Companys revenues and capital gains.
cash tax liabilities and tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a reduction in financial results depending upon the nature of the change.
The Companys worldwide operations are taxed under laws in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
International standards governing the We represent views to the OECD, governments and tax authorities through public consultations to ensure international institutions and governments global tax environment regularly change.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD has proposed a number of understand the business implications of proposed law changes.
Specic OECD BEPS recommendations that we expect to impact the Company changes under the Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS Action Plans.
include changes to patent box regimes, restrictions of interest deductibility Our dened benefit pension obligations are largely backed by assets and revised transfer pricing guidelines.
invested across the broad investment market.
Our most significant obligations relate to dened benefit pension funds in the UK, Sweden Sustained falls in asset values could reduce pension fund solvency levels, and the US.
The largest obligation is in the UK.
which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting the cash available for our business.
Changes to funding regulations for dened benefit pensions may also result in a requirement for additional cash contributions by the Company.
If the present value of the liabilities increase due to a sustained low interest rate environment, an increase in expectations of future ination, or an improvement in member longevity above that already assumed, this could also reduce pension fund solvency ratios.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt and the price of new debt issuances.
See Note 20 to the Financial Statements from page 165 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
224 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Additional Information FRQRPLF DQG QDQFLDO ULVNV Impact Failure in financial control or the occurrence of fraud Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial significant resources may be required to remediate any lapse or deficiency reports and are designed to prevent and detect fraud.
Lapses in controls in internal controls.
and procedures could undermine the ability to prevent fraud or provide Any such deficiency may also trigger investigations by a number of accurate disclosure of financial information on a timely basis.
Testing of our organisations, for example, the SEC, the DOJ or the SFO and may result internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the in fines being levied against the Company or individual directors.
preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not Serious fraud may lead to potential prosecution or even imprisonment prevent or detect misstatements or fraud.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 225
