A decade of growth in Spain STEPHEN MULLEN, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF IBERIA REGION, PRIMARK I m very lucky to have been part of our Spanish project since thebeginning, having relocated here from Ireland in 2006 as the then-area manager.
All our people in Spain are really proud of what weve achieved.
Wehave created an exciting business that tailors its products to thelocal market and delivers fantastic prices and value, we have 41stores employing more than 5,000 staff and are planning more openings, were number one in market share, and our learnings arehelping us grow in other countries.
Its been an amazing journeyandwere not finished yet.
We have 41 stores in Spain employing more than 5,000 staff Strategic report operating review 39 During this financial year we opened Year ended 17 September 2016 Year ended 12 September 2015 1.2million sq ft of selling space, # of stores sq ft 000 # of stores sq ft 000 bringingthe total estate to 315 stores UK 171 6,362 164 6,083 and 12.3 million sq ft at the financial Spain 41 1,503 40 1,369 yearend.
Anet 22 new stores were Germany 20 1,272 19 1,194 opened and two stores, in Oxford and Republic of Ireland 36 1,032 36 1,028 Grimsby, weretemporarily relocated Netherlands 15 679 12 547 tosmaller premises pending France 8 407 5 231 redevelopment.
Thiswas another very USA 5 322 1 77 active year forstore development, Portugal 9 300 8 267 particularly in thesecond half when 16 Austria 5 243 4 193 new stores and0.9million sq ft of selling Belgium 4 166 4 166 space wereopened.
Newstores this Italy 1 56 year comprisedour firststore in Italy, at 315 12,342 293 11,155 Aresenorth west of Milan, a 135,000 sq ft Spanish flagship on Gran Via in Madrid, three stores ineach of France and the completely open plan, fresh, modern willbeopened in the north east of Netherlands, seven in the UK, four look and feel, the effect has been theUS, bringing the total to eight, stores in the north east of the US and dramatic.
Wi-fi throughout the area andanextension to the Downtown astore in eachof Germany, Portugal hasmade it easier for key tasks to be Crossing store in Boston is planned andAustria.
Fourstores were extended undertaken on-the-go: the open-plan which willincrease selling space by including a49,000 sq ft increase in the environment encourages team 20%.
A32,000 sq ft extension to selling space at Creteil in Paris, which interaction, collaboration and efficiency theOxford Street East store will also doubled the size of the store only two staff briefings and inductions take beopened ahead of the important years afterits opening.
lesstime leaving more time to be Christmasperiod.
spenton the shop floor: and instances Store development has also focused ofpaid absence are lower than in Our new warehouse at Islip, thisyear on upgrading the back-of-house similarstores.
Northamptonshire is now operational area to create a more motivating work andrelocation of capacity from Magna environment for our employees.
First 1.3 million sq ft of new space Park will be completed early in the trialled with the opening of the Leeds iscurrentlyplanned to be opened newfinancial year.
The new distribution Trinity store in 2013, we have now rolled nextyear.
Five stores are planned centre at Roosendaal in the Netherlands out this concept in 59 new stores and, forGermany, two more Italian stores is on track to open early in the new todate, 34 existing stores have been inFlorence and Brescia, and notably calendar year.
upgraded as part of their planned an89,000 sq ft store in the centre refurbishment.
Three more stores fabric innovation, functionality, colour, Our Sportswear Active wear range has CASE styling and accessories have broadened gonefrom strength to strength, helping STUDY customer appeal and made athleisure todrive sales across all regions.
ofhealthy living, wellbeing and fitness isaglobal phenomenon and is gaining Key product features include moisture momentum.
The Primark customer has A WINNING BLEND wicking, which keeps the body dry and cool: joined this lifestyle journey and we are fabrics that are breathable, fast absorbent, continually re-inventing and developing OF STYLE AND quick drying and water repellent: and designs exciting new products and fabric that are figure flattering with durable, innovationto meet their expectations.
multi-way stretchfor support, comfort and FUNCTIONALITY mobility.
Hidden zip pockets, power mesh at Changing consumer lifestyles inside waistband forcore support and internal coupled with a focus on health, fitness cords are all integral features of ourproducts.
andwellbeing has seen a growth in the demand for Primarks athleisure and Active wear trends for the season were active wear.
The desire to look fashionable interpreted from fashion apparel trends.
while working out first invaded the world Colour blocking in black and white, and of fitness, but active wear has fast become boldtypography in oversize text, gave the an everyday, must-have, fashion item.
products a cool, street-style, sports edge.
Inmenswear, garments were designed Our customers are wearing athleisure forendurance runs, extreme workouts andtrainers not just to the gym but also andwere adaptable, functioning no matter outshopping, meeting friends and around whatthe conditions.
Comfort and versatility through construction and good foot support are key.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 RETAIL PHENOMENAL CASE STUDY In a global beauty market worth over Within stores, the space dedicated 290bn, Primarks PS Beauty is firmly tobeauty has been expanded and the making its mark.
department has been given a fresh look.
How to guides have been introduced Now one of Primarks fastest growing creating a new approach to range departments, all stores feature a collections and making products comprehensive Beauty offering with easiertoshop.
arangeof more than 1,000 colour what the bloggers say cosmetics, accessories, fragrance The reaction from customers, press andskincare products.
andkey influencers has been one of high praise with favourable comparison to Sales of eye, lip and face cosmetics bigname brand equivalents.
The level Love Laugh and Make Up continueto grow responding to the ofengagement across social media I love love love the latest trends for contouring, matte lips channels in particular has been very high, illuminating primer, mascara andcolour correcting while expansion with Instagram posts regularly achieving and the lip scrub from the of our product range across foundations, in excess of 40,000 likes and Snapchats PSPro range.
The lips and brows has broadened our reaching an average of more than packaging looks great, really simple, but chic.
this year include: PSPro professional level cosmetics, PSSun Protect Itssabrinaaa Beauty blogger suncare range, Skincare, PS Love fragrances and PS Bronze self-tan andcosmetics.
The Penneys beauty range just keeps getting bigger and better!
Pippa OConnor Fashion and beauty blogger Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 41 CASE STUDY WORN IN THE USA Primarks successful entry into the northeast of the USAin late 2015 followedtwoyears of painstaking planning and research.
To prepare ourselves for the US retailenvironment, our dedicated new marketsgroup established 15 different workstreams covering every aspect ofPrimarks business from product PR toproperty, from risk and compliance tosocial media.
The group identified and considered thewide-ranging costs and process implications of entry into this new market.
The legal environment offered particular challenges, with new laws and regulations spanning all areas of the business and the federal legal system meaning that laws business influencers, businesses, heartlandonly became apparent when varied across our five target states.
educational establishments and the media.
We are reacting swiftly Brand-building will remain an on-going focus tothese learnings, for example, we are We invested enormous effort in as we seek to bring the Primark name to a adapting our ranges assome lines do not establishing the Primark brand that, wider audience and where a strong brand sellas well, and developing a different pre-entry, was little known in the USA.
iskey to recruiting the best employees.
coaching model to familiarise US staff with Topromote our unique story, promise, our empowering and high-velocity culture.
value proposition and customer experience Despite our thorough preparation, and what differentiates us we worked inevitably, some differences between hard to nurture trust with government, thenew market and our European Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 FINANCIAL REVIEW Profit before tax increased from JOHN BASON, FINANCE DIRECTOR 707m to1,042m with the benefit of a substantially lower level of losses on disposal of businesses and exceptional items.
On our adjusted basis which excludes these items, profit before taxrose by 5% to 1,071m.
Acquisitions and disposals Some ten years after the acquisition of 51% of Illovo Sugar Limited, we acquired the non-controlling interests of the company on 28 June for a purchase consideration of 247m.
The transaction was immediately earnings accretive forthegroup.
Thebusiness rationale is explained in theoperating review and moving to full ownership presented theopportunity to align management and financial reporting including a changeof year end.
The disposal of our cane sugar business in south China is subject to regulatory approvals but is expected to complete later this year.
The sale of ACHs herbs and spices business in the US is due tocomplete by the end of this month.
The combined proceeds net of costs are expected to be over 0.5bn with little impact on the groups adjusted operating profit after these disposals andsome overhead rationalisation.
Assets and liabilities which will be disposed of when these transactions complete are shown separately on the balance sheet as assets and liabilities Group performance by8m and in the prior year, which classified as held for sale.
The net assets Group revenue increased by 5% to has been restated, by 10m.
are held at their net book value without 13.4bn and adjusted operating profit The currency markets in this financial impairment as these values are lower was 3% higher at 1,118m.
In calculating year have been more volatile than in than the expected disposal proceeds.
adjusted operating profit, the amortisation recent years, especially for sterling, our charge on non-operating intangibles, Taxation reporting currency.
Sterlings strength in profits or losses on disposal of non-current We recognise the importance of the first half of the year had an adverse assets and any exceptional items are complying fully with all applicable tax translation effect on the groups results.
On an unadjusted basis, laws as well as paying and collecting Inthe second half, and particularly operating profit was 1,103m, 18% higher theright amount of tax in every country afterthe result of the EU referendum, than last year which included a 98m in which the group operates.
Our sterlingweakened and we benefited exceptional charge.
Revenue and operating board-adopted tax policy is based on from translation, resulting in little net profit both benefited to a small extent from seven tax principles that are embedded in effect for the financial year as a whole.
a 53rd weeks trading activity in some the financial and non-financial processes The biggest transactional exposures ofour businesses this year but this and controls of the group.
These tax inour group are in British Sugar and was offset by the consolidation ofonly principles are included in the appendix Primark.
Margins at British Sugar benefit 11 months results for Illovo as a to our Corporate Responsibility report from euro strength while margins at consequence of the alignment of its www.
Primark are adversely affected by sterling year end with the rest of the group.
or euro weakness against the US dollar.
As a substantial UK tax payer, the group These results take into account a change Because Primark hedges its exposures will benefit from the future reductions in our accounting policy for the valuation when orders are placed, the impact inthe UK corporation tax rate to 19% of Illovos sugar cane roots following the ofsterlings weakness will not befelt from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April amendment of IAS 41 which now permits until the new financial year.
These reductions were enacted the valuation of such assets at cost less Finance expense less finance income before our balance sheet date and their accumulated depreciation.
This change of50m was lower than last years effect on our UK deferred tax liability reduced both adjusted and unadjusted netcharge of 53m reflecting a lower istherefore taken into account in the operating profit in the current year average level of debt during the year.
current year and will be reflected in Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 43 ourcurrent tax charge in the years changes in the carrying values of inventory, facility which matures in July 2021: and inwhich the lower rates apply.
trade receivables and payables were 0.3bn of local committed facilities in largely the result of currency translation.
During the financial This years tax charge of 221m includes Average working capital as a percentage year we repaid, from existing cash an underlying charge of 227m at an of sales at 8.4% was lower than last resources, 78m of private placement effective rate of 21.2% 2015 21.3% on years 9.4%.
Net debt at the year end notes.
At the year end, 740m was the adjusted profit before tax.
This years was 121m higher than last year at drawn down under these committed effective rate includes the beneficial 315m reflecting the buyout of the facilities.
The group also had access effect of the revaluation of UK deferred Illovominorities and a 53m increase to0.8bn of uncommitted credit lines tax balances.
This will not be repeated attributable to the effect of translating under which 142m was drawn at the next year and, combined with profit foreign currency denominated net debt year end.
Cash and cash equivalents, increasing in businesses subject to a atweaker sterling exchange rates.
including cash within assets held for corporation tax rate higher than that in the sale, totalled 581m at the year end.
UK, we expect the groups effective tax The groups net assets increased by rate to increase a little from this level.
Pensions overall tax charge for the year benefited The deficit in the groups defined benefit Return on capital employed for the from a credit of 5m 2015 8m for tax pension schemes increased from 16m group, which is calculated by expressing relief on the amortisation of non-operating last year to 303m, including liabilities adjusted operating profit as a percentage intangible assets and goodwill arising held for sale, this year end.
The UK of the average capital employed for the from previous acquisitions.
scheme accounts for 88% of the groups year, was 18.1% compared with 17.6% gross liabilities and its deficit was 138m.
Earnings and dividends last year.
This reflected the higher profit Long-term bond yields, which are used to Last years earnings per share have been and only a small increase in average value defined benefit pension obligations restated for the change of accounting capital employed which was primarily for accounting purposes, have been falling policy for the valuation of sugar cane the consequence of Primarks expansion.
for some time, with a marked decline roots with a reduction of 0.5p.
Earnings Cash flow inUK yields at the balance sheet date attributable to equity shareholders in The group generated a net cash flow from following the EU referendum.
This had a thecurrent year were 818m and the operating activities of 1,310m this year material impact on the discounted value weighted average number of shares with tight management of working capital of pension liabilities.
When considered inissue during the year, which is throughout the year.
Gross expenditure inthe context of gross pension assets of usedtocalculate earnings per share, on property, plant and equipment and 4bn, and with the groups strong balance was791million 2015 790 million.
intangibles amounted to 796m compared sheet and substantial cash generating Earningsper ordinary share were 55% with 613m last year.
Primark spent ability, it is well within the groups higher than last year at 103.4p with 435m on the acquisition of new stores capacity to fund the future requirements thebenefit of substantially lower losses and the fit-out of new and existing of all these schemes.
However, bond onsale of businesses and exceptional stores, while a number of expansion yields at current levels will result in an items this year.
Adjusted earnings per projects increased the expenditure in increased service cost and ahigher share, which provides amore consistent the food businesses.
27m was realised interest charge next year.
measure of trading performance, from the sale of property, plant and increased by 5% from 101.5p to 106.2p.
The next triennial valuation of the UK equipment, the major elements of which scheme is due in April 2017 and it is The interim dividend was increased were the sale of farmland in South Africa expected that appropriate contribution by3% to 10.3p and a final dividend and the continued redevelopment of a plans, designed to fund the scheme hasbeen proposed at 26.45p which former factory site in Western Australia andany deficit over the long term, represents an overall increase of 5% where further lots were sold for housing willbeimplemented.
The last valuation forthe year.
The proposed dividend is development during the year.
ofthe UK scheme was undertaken expected to cost 209m and will be 10m was incurred on the acquisition asat5April 2014 which was agreed charged next year.
Dividend cover, on oftwo small businesses for AB Agri and bythetrustees in December 2014, anadjusted basis, remains at 2.9 times.
252m was spent on the buyout of the andrevealed a surplus of 79m.
Balance sheet minority interests in Illovo Sugar Limited The charge for the year for the groups Non-current assets of 6.9bn were which is shown in the cash flow statement defined contribution schemes, which 0.6bn higher than last year driven by under financing activities inclusive of wasequal to the contributions made, substantially higher capital expenditure costs associated with the buyout.
than depreciation this year and as a result Thiswas substantially greater than the Financing of the translation of overseas assets cash contribution to the defined benefit The financing of the group is managed ataweaker sterling exchange rate.
The schemes of 38m 2015 39m by a central treasury department.
The change of accounting policy for sugar reflecting the changing shape of group has total committed borrowing cane roots resulted in the reclassification pensionprovision in the group.
facilities amounting to 2.1bn, which of these assets from non-current comprise: 0.6bn of US private biological assets to property, plant and placement notes maturing between equipment where they are now carried 2017 and 2024, with an average fixed athistoric cost rather than fair value.
John Bason rate coupon of 4.7%, 15m of which is Finance Director Working capital at the year end was at payable in March 2017: 1.2bn provided asimilar level to last year.
Year-on-year under a syndicated, revolving credit Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
