Principal risks and uncertainties Identify, evaluate and manage risks facing the Group The principal risks and uncertainties which are considered to have a potentially material impact on the Groups long-term performance and achievement of strategy are set out in the following table.
External and internal risk factors have been considered.
Additional risks and uncertainties to the Group, including those that are not currently known or that the Group currently deems immaterial, may individually or cumulatively also have a material effect on the Groups business, results of operations and or financial condition.
Principal risk Description Key mitigations Operating priorities Change Macroeconomic risks If the UK car market contracts this could result in a reduction in new and used Regular review of market conditions 1.
E conomy, market car transactions which could result in a reduction in the number of retailers or Resilient business model and business environment reduce retailers desire to advertise their vehicles in the marketplace.
In addition, a contraction in the UK car market could reduce manufacturers spend on advertising on the marketplace.
Competitive risks Increased competition could impact the Groups ability to grow revenue due to Demonstration of value to customers 2.
Increased competition the potential loss of audience, trade and consumer advertisers, or demand for Regular review of audience data additionalservices.
Maintain investment in products and in marketing campaigns Resilient business model Failure to maintain and protect the brand or negative publicity surrounding the Maintain investment in marketing campaigns 3.
Brand Groups products or services could impede the Groups ability to retain or expand Clear and open culture its base of retailers, consumers and advertisers or could diminish confidence in and the use of the Groups services.
Failure to innovate and develop new technologies or products, to execute product Monitor audience figures and consumer functionality 4.
N ew or disruptive launches and improvements or to adapt to changing consumer behaviour towards relative to competitors technologies and changing car buying or ownership could lead to the Groups business being adversely impacted.
Continuous investment in technology consumer behaviours Focus on retaining key developers and attracting new talent Operational risks Failure in one system as a result of malicious attack, our own failures or those Adherence to strict industry standards 5.
IT systems of third-party suppliers, could disrupt others and could impact the availability Internal team focused on mitigating security threat or performance of Group platforms and could cause reputational damage with Maintenance of a business continuity plan consumers and or customers.
Our continued success and growth is dependent on our ability to attract, recruit, Long-term incentive plans for key senior staff 6.
Employee retention retain and motivate our highly skilled workforce.
Failure to do so could result in the Active succession planning and career development plans loss of key talent.
Employee engagement surveys 36 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operating priorities relevant to our risks Increase consumer audience, advert views and use of our valuation tools Promote trust and fairness in the marketplace Grow ARPR in a balanced, sustainable way by creating value for our customers Extend the penetration of products outside of our core classified proposition Enhance our relevance and value to manufacturers Operate a simpler, leaner and more data-oriented business Read more on page 17 Principal risk Description Key mitigations Operating priorities Change Macroeconomic risks If the UK car market contracts this could result in a reduction in new and used Regular review of market conditions 1.
Employee engagement surveys 37 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
