Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management Understanding and managing our principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is critical to enable us to meet our strategic objectives and to achieve sustainable long-term growth.
The Board has carried out Risk management process a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the We recognise that effective risk management is critical to enable us Company, including those to meet our strategic objectives and to achieve sustainable long-term that would threaten its growth.
The Boards role is to consider whether, given the risk appetite business model, future performance, solvency of the Group, the level of risk is acceptable within its strategy.
process has been adopted to identify, monitor and manage the risks to which the Group is exposed: The Group risk register was reviewed by the Board, including an assessment of the likelihood and impact of each risk and the mitigating actions being taken.
Risk levels were modified to 1. reflect the current view of the Identify relative significance of each risk.
risks Recognising the value that our people bring to the business, the risks associated with the 4.
2. retention of employees was Monitor Assess and elevated this year.
and review quantify risks The principal risks and uncertainties identified are detailed on pages 36 to 37.
Respond to, manage and mitigate risks 1.
Respond to, manage and mitigate risks A top-down and bottom-up approach is used to The effectiveness and adequacy of controls identify principal risks across the business.
Whilst in place is assessed.
If additional controls are the Board has overall responsibility for making required to mitigate identified risks then these sure that internal control and risk management are implemented and responsibilities assigned.
are effective, the detailed work is delegated to the Operational Leadership Team OLT.
Monitor and review The OLT is responsible for monitoring progress 2.
Assess and quantify risks against principal risks in a continual process.
Risks and controls are analysed and evaluated They are assisted by the Groups internal audit to establish the root causes, financial impact and programme in conjunction with Deloitte.
The Group categorises The Board reviews the Groups risk register risks into six areas: and assesses the adequacy of the principal Economy, market and business environment.
risks identified and the mitigating controls and procedures adopted.
33 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Internal auditor Risk management continued Read more Principal risks and uncertainties 36 Corporate governance statement 48 Report of the Audit Committee 54 Our framework Risks are highlighted through a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, which identifies the risk area, the likelihood of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
Audit Board Committee Operational Leadership Team Risk register and risk review Operational management Risk governance and responsibilities The Boards responsibilities Overall responsibility for risk management.
The Audit Committees Assess the scope and effectiveness of risk management processes responsibilities and internal control systems.
Operational Leadership Team Identify, assess, monitor, manage and mitigate risks and exploit opportunities: responsibilities Ensure appropriate internal controls are in place: Ensure the risk register is properly maintained: and Embed risk management as business as usual.
Operational management Embed and manage internal controls and risk management day to day and internal controls as part of business as usual.
Oversight functions Aid in setting appropriate policies, provide guidance, advice and direction and internal audit on implementation of those policies and monitor the first line of defence.
Additional line of defence 34 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 External auditor Strategic report Governance Financial statements Viability statement In accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects and viability of the Group.
Assessment of prospects The output of the annual review process is The viability model assumed a rapid  a set of operational priorities, an analysis of deterioration in stock and audience over a marketplace and it is the Groups clear focus the risks that could prevent the plan being short period of time.
The number of customer to maintain this position by relentlessly delivered, and the annual financial budget.
retailer forecourts and the ARPR generated focusing on improving the process of buying were significantly degraded in the model, and selling vehicles.
During the year ended Detailed financial forecasts that consider but expenditure in the areas of marketing, 27 March 2016 the Group generated a profit, cash flow, funding arrangements payroll and technology were held steady.
profit before tax of 155.0m and was highly and key financial ratios have been prepared Revenue and profitability are clearly affected cash generative with operating cash flow for the three-year period to March 2019. in this scenario, but the business remains from continuing operations amounting to The first year of the financial forecasts form cash generative.
Taking into account the Groups the Groups 2017 budget and is subject to current position and its principal risks and a re-forecast process at the half-year.
The Based on their assessment of prospects and uncertainties as described on pages 36 to 37, second and third years are prepared in detail, viability above, the Directors confirm that they the Directors have assessed the Groups and are flexed based on the actual results in have a reasonable expectation that the Group prospects and viability.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year The strategy and business model as set Assessment of viability period ending March 2019. out on pages 17 to 19 are central to an The Boards assessment of the Groups understanding of its prospects.
These factors prospects, as described above, has been Going concern provide a framework for the rolling three-year made with reference to current market The Directors also considered it appropriate plan which is developed as part of the annual conditions and known risk factors.
The to prepare the financial statements on the budget process and reviewed by the Board principal risks and uncertainties facing the going concern basis, as explained in the to assess the Groups prospects.
Group are outlined on pages 36 to 37.
Basis of preparation paragraph in note 1 to the financial statements.
The three-year timeframe for assessing both Given the Groups financial performance prospects and viability is considered to be in 2016 and over recent years, the Board appropriate due to the following: considers that the key factor which would prejudice the delivery of the Groups it is consistent with the Groups rolling financial objectives is a severe weakening three-year strategic planning process: of AutoTraders marketplace proposition projections looking out further than three and its leading market position.
This could years become significantly less meaningful be caused by a loss of audience which in the context of the fast moving nature of results in a reduction in retailers and the level the market: and of stock listed on the marketplace or by a reduction in the number of retailers and stock it reflects reasonable expectations in terms which could then result in a loss of audience.
of the reliability and accuracy of operational forecasting models.
Using the current strategic plan as a base case, alternative forecasts have The Groups prospects are assessed been produced to model the effect on primarily through its strategic planning the Groups liquidity and solvency of very process.
This process includes an annual severe combinations of the principal risks review of the ongoing plan, led by the and uncertainties affecting the business.
CEO through the Operational Leadership Team and all relevant functions are involved.
The Board participates fully in the annual process and has the task of considering whether the plan continues to take appropriate account of the external environment including technological, social and macroeconomic changes.
35 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
