STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risks and uncertainties AVEVA FACES A NUMBER OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUPS LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE.
THE BOARD IS RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING THE NATURE OF THESE RISKS AND ENSURING APPROPRIATE MITIGATING ACTIONS ARE IN PLACE TO MANAGE THEM EFFECTIVELY The updated Group risk register was In making this statement, the Directors Risk management process The Board retains ultimate responsibility ultimately reviewed and approved have also made the following assumptions: by the Board and in the context for the Groups risk management and as part of this regularly completes a of the assessment of viability the oil prices will not fall significantly further Board considered which risks, and the UK EU referendum, which could review of the Groups Risk Register and an assessment of the adequacy combination of risks, would threaten lead to Britain exiting the EU, will the viability of the company.
not affect current trading or existing of the mitigating controls identified by management.
To aid this process customer contracts or relationships The principal risks faced by the Group our internal controls in mitigation of a the Board approved the formation of a Risk Committee comprising are set out on pages 34 to 35, and significant proportion of the risks on the include indicators of the financial register continue to operate effectively senior management from each function of the business.
The Risk impact, likelihood and whether the risk has increased or decreased in Going concern statement Committee reports jointly to the Board and the Executive Board.
significance since the last review.
The Group has significant financial resources, is profitable and has a strong The Risk Committee meets at least Viability Statement position in the markets it serves.
At In accordance with the revised UK 31 March 2016, the Group had cash and quarterly and has responsibility for considering risk appetite, risk Corporate Governance Code, the treasury deposit balances of 107.9 Directors have assessed the Groups million 2015 103.8 million and no debt.
identification, risk quantification qualification and the determination of prospects and viability over a period Therefore, after making enquiries and significantly longer than the outlook considering the cash flow forecasts for the mitigating internal controls.
The Risk Committee is not responsible for internal of the Going Concern statement of 12 Group, the Directors have a reasonable months.
The Directors have determined expectation that the Group has adequate audit activities which remain under the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
that the appropriate period is three years, resources to continue in operational corresponding with the period covered existence for the foreseeable future.
More details of AVEVAs assessment of internal controls is included within by the Groups business planning cycle.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting the Audit Committee Report and on page 42 of the Corporate Governance The Directors considered the principal in preparing the financial statements.
risks in plausible but severe scenarios section of the Directors Report.
and assessed the potential impact of a decline in the Groups revenue caused This year the Risk Committee gathered opinions, via a Risk Questionnaire, from by a period of sustained low economic growth resulting in low levels of capital around 50 of the most senior managers within the Group and this formed a investment, together with the potential deterioration in the market share of valuable input when considering the Group risk profile and in undertaking the annual our dominant product family and this was combined with an unfavourable review of the Risk Register.
The Risk Register was compiled after considering foreign exchange assumption.
three main risk characteristics likelihood, size of impact and timeframe for when Based on this assessment, the Directors have considered the Groups current the risk may impact the Group.
Likelihood was assessed on a net risk basis i. e. position and principal risks, and have a reasonable expectation that the after the operation of internal controls as the Risk Committee considered this Group will be able to continue in gave a more robust view of the risks operation and meet its liabilities as currently faced by AVEVA.
Separately, they fall due over a three year period.
the Audit Committee has responsibility for determining the appropriate level of review required to ensure that internal controls are operating as designed.
33 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties CONTINUED Risk change from 2015 Low No change Medium Risk decreased High Risk increased STRATEGIC AND MARKET RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Dependency on key markets AVEVA is expanding into new AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income market segments such as mining, from customers whose main business is derived petrochemicals and AEC, albeit from from capital projects in the Oil & Gas, Power and a relatively small base.
It is central to Marine markets.
World economic conditions or our strategy to diversify our customer funding constraints for new capital projects may offerings into OOs and Plant operations.
adversely affect our financial performance.
Currently, This will help secure a longer-term some of AVEVAs vertical end markets are under income stream that extends beyond pressure with lower oil prices and inevitably this the design build phase of these capital is having an impact on the Groups revenues.
In addition, our extensive global presence provides some mitigation from over-reliance on key geographic markets.
Competition We carefully monitor customers and AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets that serve other suppliers operating within our the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
We stay close to tools are well established in our markets and we believe our customers and ensure we have a that there are a relatively small number of significant strong understanding of their needs competitors.
However, some of these competitors and their expectations from the AVEVA could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat product development roadmap.
to AVEVAs revenues, particularly if they consolidate or form strategic or commercial relationships among We expect that the customers we serve themselves or with larger, well capitalised companies.
will, over the next three to five years, show an increased appetite or insistence Further threats are posed by the entrance, into on their software needs being delivered AVEVAsmarkets, of a much larger technology with more flexibility.
AVEVA is already competitor or transformational technology, such well progressed with its Cloud strategy asCloud-based solutions.
and expects to be able to meet these customer demands as they develop.
The Groups strategy to extend the digitalasset footprint is key to ensuring that our customer penetration is broad and that AVEVAssources of revenue are diversified.
Professional Services We employ experienced industry Where AVEVA assists customers with the deployment professionals within our professional of an enterprise solution this involves some degree services team and continue to of consulting and or implementation work.
This build commercial partnerships with requires specialist knowledge to be available and third party systems integrators.
well managed in many geographic locations.
There is a risk that the services provided do not meet the We have rigorous processes and customers expectations or that technical difficulties controls for the appraisal of potential areencountered.
commercial opportunities prior to any bid being submitted.
Bids are appraised In some instances we may opt to partner witha third on grounds of technical complexity as party for this work and this relationshipalso requires well as financial and commercial risk.
careful management and maintenance to ensure that AVEVAs strong reputation with our customers isnotdamaged.
Acquisitions While each acquisition and integration is An acquisition by AVEVA or of AVEVA could pose a unique, AVEVA now has an experienced significant distraction to management and to the team to appraise and complete delivery of our business plan.
The Groups experience of previous bolt-on acquisitions The Group expects to continue to review acquisition as well as the aborted transaction targets as part of its strategy.
The integration of with Schneider Electric provides a acquisitions involves a number of unique risks, including good understanding of potential diversion of managements attention, failure to retain transaction and integration risks.
key personnel of the acquired business, failure to realise the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition, and successful integration of the acquired intellectualproperty.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Recruitment and retention of employees The Group endeavours to ensure that AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and employees are motivated in their work reputation of its products and services, which rely and there are regular appraisals, with almost entirely on the quality of the people developing staff encouraged to develop their and delivering them.
Managing this pool of highly skilled skills.
Annually there is a Group-wide and motivated individuals across all disciplines and salary review that rewards strong geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
performance and ensures salaries remain competitive.
Commission and bonus schemes help to ensure the success of the Group and individual achievement is appropriately rewarded.
Protection of intellectual property The Group uses third party technology The Groups success has been built upon the to encrypt, protect and restrict access development of its substantial intellectual property to its products.
Access limitations and rights and the future growth of the business rights are also defined within the terms requires the continual protection of these tools.
of the software licence agreement.
The protection of the Groups proprietary The Group seeks to ensure that software products is achieved by licensing its intellectual property rights are rights to use the application, rather than selling appropriately protected by law or licensing the computer source code.
and seeks to vigorously assert its proprietary rights wherever possible.
Research & Development AVEVA continually reviews the alignment The Group makes substantial investments in of the activities of our Research & Research & Development in enhancing existing Development teams to ensure that products and introducing new products and must they remain focused on areas that will effectively appraise its investment decisions and meet the demands of our customers ensure that we continue to provide class-leading and deliver appropriate financial returns.
solutions that meet the needs of our markets.
This process is managed by developing a product roadmap that identifies Our software products are complex and new products the schedule for new products and or enhancements may contain undetected errors, the enhancements that will be made failures, performance problems or defects which may to successive versions of existing impact our strong reputation with our customers.
Products are extensively tested prior to commercial launch.
International operations The Group manages its overseas The Group operates in over 30 countries globally operations by employing locally and must determine how best to utilise its resources qualified personnel who are able to across these diverse markets.
Where necessary, the provide expertise in the appropriate business must adapt its market approach to best language and an understanding of capitalise on local market opportunities, particularly local culture, custom and practice.
in the strategically key growth economies.
Local management is supported by local professional advisers and further In addition, the Group is required to comply with the oversight is maintained from the Groups local laws, regulations and tax legislation in each corporate legal and finance functions.
Significant changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could lead to additional liabilities and penalties.
FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Foreign exchange risk The overseas subsidiaries predominantly Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can trade in their own local currencies, which be material to the Group, with more than 80% of the acts as a partial natural hedge against Groups revenue denominated in a currency other than currency movements.
In addition, sterling, of which our two largest are US Dollar and Euro.
the Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to manage the risk The UK referendum on European Union where material and practical.
The Group membership on 23 June 2016 is currently increasing limits its hedging of revenue to US Dollar, foreign exchange risk for the Group and if the Euro, Japanese Yen and its hedging of decision is to exit this increased uncertainty and costs to Swedish Krona and Indian Rupee.
volatility may prevail for the medium term.
