R e p o r t e r u s a e M M o n i t o Risk and risk management 68 Rigorous and consistent risk management Risk management is key to Avivas success.
retaining those risks we believe we are We prefer risks We accept the risks inherent to our core capable of managing to generate a return.
business lines of life, accident & health, and Looking forward, these risks may we understand, general insurance and asset management.
bemagnied or dampened by current We diversify these risks through our scale, andemerging external trends which have the expertise geographic spread, the variety of the mayimpact upon our current and longer products and services we offer and the term profitability and viability, in particular to manage channels through which we sell them.
our ability to write profitable new business.
We receive premiums which we invest This includes the risk of failing to adapt and which are in order to maximise risk-adjusted returns, ourbusiness model to take advantage so that we can full our promises to ofthese trends.
Pages 70 to 71 describe well-rewarded customers while providing a return to what these trends are, their impact, ourshareholders.
In doing so, as set out futureoutlook and how we manage #Aviva2016 inthe next page, we have a preference for theserisks.
Angela Darlington Chief Risk officer HOW WE MANAGE RISK Rigorous and consistent risk management is embedded across the Group through our Risk Management Framework, comprising our systems of governance, our risk management processes and risk preferences see next page.
Our Governance Our process Includes risk policies and business standards, risk oversight committees see below and roles The processes we use to identify, measure, and responsibilities.
Line management in the business is accountable for risk management manage, monitor and report risks, including which, together with the risk function and internal audit, form our three lines of defence of the use of our risk models and stress and risk management.
The roles and responsibilities of the Governance, Audit and Risk scenario testing: Committees and Disclosure, Asset Liability and Operational Risk management committees in the oversight of risk management and internal control is set out in the Directors and corporate governance report.
Aviva plc Board Risk management Audit Nomination Risk Governance Remuneration framework Disclosure Asset Liability Operational Risk Board Committees Management Committees Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 r y f i t n e d I M a n a g e Strategic report Risk and risk management 69 OUR RISK PREFERENCES This includes qualitative statements on the risks that we select for reward, the risks we accept but seek to minimise and the risks we seek to avoid or transfer, as well as quantitative expressions risk appetite statements of the level of risk we can support e. g. the amount of capital we are prepared to put at risk.
The table below sets out our preference for those risks arising from our business model.
Where our inherent risk exposure exceeds our risk preference, we seek to reduce our residual risk exposure through management actions, such as reinsurance, investment hedges and enhanced operational controls.
We prefer those risks which we believe we understand well and have the expertise to manage so we can generate superior returns.
Residual risks Residual risks well not adequately rewarded and rewarded diversify well Minimise Maintain Seek 1 Risks customers transfer to us Longevity ` Life insurance risk includes longevity risk annuitants living Mortality longer than we expect, mortality risk customers with life protection, critical illness risk, expense risk the Critical illness amount it costs us to administer policies and persistency risk customers lapsing or surrendering Persistency their policies.
` General insurance GI risk is the risk GI risk arising from loss events re, ooding, windstorms, accidents etc.
` Accident & Health insurance risk GI Catastrophe covers healthcare costs and loss of earnings arising from customers falling ill.
Accident & Health 1 Risks from Investments Credit ` Credit risks actual defaults and market expectation of defaults Liquidity create uncertainty in our ability to offer a minimum investment return on our investments.
1 Equity ` Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to make payments as they become due because there are Property insufficient assets in cash form.
` Market risks result from 2 Foreign exchange uctuations in asset values, including equity prices, property prices, foreign exchange, ination Inflation and interest rates.
Interest rate Risks from our operations andother Operational risk 3 business risks ` Operational risk is the risk of Asset management risk director indirect loss, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events including changes in the regulatory environment.
` Asset management risk is the risk ofcustomers redeeming funds, notinvesting with us, or switching funds, resulting in reduced fee income.
1 Our top three risks ranked by diversied Solvency II Solvency Capital Requirement 2 At a business level we have minimal appetite for foreign exchange risk.
At Group level we accept some foreign exchange risk, against predetermined limits, from the translation on consolidation of the net assets of our overseas subsidiaries from local currency into pounds sterling to the extent not offset by foreign currency borrowings and derivative hedges.
3 The most critical residual operational risks to which the Group is exposed are aligned to the Groups Major Control Improvement Topics, set out in the Audit Committee Report in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk and risk management continued 70 PRINCIPAL RISK TRENDS This table describes the external trends and causal factors impacting our inherent risks, their impact, future outlook and how we take action to manage these risks: KEY TRENDS AND MOVEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK Uncertain interest rate ` Over the last few years we have taken ` Since the US election there environment if current low significant steps to reduce the sensitivity of has been a shift in sentiment interest rates continue for a our balance sheet to interest rates.
Our exposure on the limitations of loose prolonged period it will adversely to interest rates movements is mitigated by investing monetary policy in favour of affect the return we earn on in xed interest securities which closely match the scal stimulus to support our investments, as well as the interest rate sensitivity of our liabilities.
Actions taken growth, resulting in a attractiveness of the returns we can include close asset liability matching, reducing sales rebound in the record low offer to new customers.
of products with guarantees in particular in Italy and long term interest rates France, shifting our sales towards protection and experienced after the UK-EU Risks impacted: unit-linked products.
While it Credit risk remains likely UK and Market risks Eurozone interest rates will Liquidity risk remain low for some time to come, there is a risk that a rapid increase in rates could result in a collapse in bond prices and widening spreads.
UK-EU relations Brexit ` Brexit does not have a significant operational ` We expect greater clarity to uncertainty Following impact.
We are actively engaged through the emerge once Article 50 is the referendum result there is Association of British Insurers and directly with the invoked.
However, until considerable uncertainty over the UK Government to ensure the interests of our negotiations are concluded UKs future relationship with the industry and stakeholders are appropriately taken there will remain EU including access to the single into account.
We are developing contingency plans considerable uncertainty market, and economic growth to cover potential adverse operational outcomes for over their outcome, and in and financial markets, as well as our business, in particular with regards to the loss of particular whether any the status of our EU employees the ability for UK rms to passport business into the transitional arrangements working in the UK and longer term EU.
Given our corporate structure, this is not a major will be in place when the UK implications for financial services risk.
Our Financial Event Response Plan ensures that exits the EU, which may regulation, including Solvency II.
we will be able to respond swiftly and effectively to adversely impact financial any severe adverse financial event.
markets and economic Risks impacted: growth.
Credit risk Market risks Operational risk People living longer Medical ` We monitor our own experience carefully and ` There is considerable advances and healthier life styles analyse external population data to identify uncertainty over the extent contribute to an increase in life emerging trends.
Detailed analysis of the factors that improvements in life expectancy of our annuitants and that inuence mortality informs our pricing and expectancy experienced thus future payments over their reserving policies.
We add qualitative medical expert over the last 40 years will lifetime may be in excess of the inputs to our statistical analysis and analyse factors continue into the future.
inuencing mortality and trends in mortality by Indeed, despite continued cause of death.
Avivas Staff Pension Scheme hedges medical advances emerging Risks impacted: its longevity risk covering approximately 5 billion of lifestyle changes may begin Life insurance risk longevity pensioner in payment liabilities.
In 2016 we started to slow or even reverse this to use longevity reinsurance for bulk purchase trend.
annuities and Aviva guaranteed annuity options.
We continue to evaluate emerging reinsurance market solutions.
Climate change potentially ` We are actively engaged in public policy ` Global average resulting in higher than expected debate on the risks and impacts of climate temperatures in 2016 were weather-related claims including change to our business and customers.
We use the hottest on record.
business continuity claims and reinsurance to reduce the financial impact of Despite the UNFCCC Paris inaccurate pricing of general catastrophic weather events.
Our ood mapping agreement, the current insurance risk, as well as adverse analytics helps us identify properties most at risk and trend of increasing CO 2 secondary impacts on economic improve our risk selection.
Our responsible emissions is expected to growth and investment markets.
investment strategy ensures climate change, as well continue with global as other environmental and social issues are temperatures likely to Risks impacted: integrated into our investment decisions.
We actively exceed pre-industrial levels o General insurance risk seek to reduce our own direct carbon emissions by at least 2 C and weather Credit risk 46% reduction since 2010 as well as indirect events oods, droughts, Market risk emissions through supplier agreements and as a windstorms increasing in criteria for supplier selection.
For further information frequency and severity.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Risk and risk management continued 71 KEY TRENDS AND MOVEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK Impact of new technologies ` Avivas strategy is focused on transformation ` There is expected to be a Failure to understand and react to into a digital leader by taking a bold and five-fold growth in digital the impact of new technology and enterprise-wide approach to digital and data between now and its effect on customer behaviour and automation.
In July 2014, Aviva announced its 2020.
Big data is becoming a how we distribute products could strategic anchors and embarked on a digital strategy critical driver of competitive potentially result in our business leveraging the building blocks of predictive analytics, advantage for insurers.
While automation and digital sales channels.
We are Articial intelligence and failure to keep pace with the use of currently integrating data analytics into our robotic automation are likely data to price more accurately and to operations, enabling new means of underwriting, to increasingly transform the detect insurance fraud could lead to personalised customer propositions and operational efficiency of insurance loss of competitive advantage and efficiency.
For further information on our digital operations such as underwriting losses.
strategy see pages 26-27 and 54-55. underwriting and claims.
Risks impacted: Operational risk developing theright strategy Changes in public policy Any ` We actively engage with governments and ` In the UK pressure on public change in public policy government regulators in the development of public policy nances may result in or regulatory could influence the and regulation.
We do this to understand how further erosion of tax relief demand for, and profitability of, our public policy may change and to help ensure better for pension savings, while products.
In some markets there are outcomes for our stakeholders, including customers.
further restrictions on or could be in the future restrictions The Groups multi-channel distribution and product pension charges are also and controls on premium rates, strategy and geographic diversication underpin the possible, as well as increases rating factors and charges.
Groups adaptability to public policy risk, and often in Insurance Premium Tax, provides a hedge to the risk.
For example, since the extension in Flood Re Risks impacted: end of compulsory annuitisation in 2015 we have coverage and changes to the Operational risk developing the compensated for falling sales of individual annuities asset management industry right strategy, regulatory compliance by increasing sales of other life and pension products following the FCAs review.
Also, the Polish government is consulting on pension changes which will radically impact the pensions industry.
Cyber crime criminals may ` We are not complacent.
We continue to invest ` In 2016 there were a number attempt to access our IT systems signicantly in IT Security, introducing additional of high prole cyber security to steal or utilise company and automated controls to protect our data, detect and incidents for corporates in customer data, or plant malware prevent cyber-attacks.
In addition to implementing the UK and elsewhere, and viruses, in order to access customer secure development practices we employ our own we expect this to increase in or company funds, and or damage white hat hackers to regularly test our IT security 2017 as cyber criminals our reputation and brand.
We undertake regular activities with our become ever more people to promote awareness of cyber and data sophisticated and given the Risks impacted: security, including: employee phishing exercises, growing importance of Operational risk fraud, computer based training and more regular digital automation in businessinterruption communications about specic threats as they are business strategy.
Changes in customer behaviour ` We listen to our customers to ensure we meet ` We expect customers will be will impact how customers wish their needs.
For information on how we are much more in control, to interact with us and the product mitigating this risk through execution of our strategy, expecting to self-service and offering they expect from us, focused on Digital First, see pages 26-27, and True self-solve.
They will want to including the exercise of options Customer Composite, see pages 20-23, with further access data and insight and embedded in contracts already sold examples provided in the market review section on use it to guide their own by us.
Risks impacted: Operational risk developing the right strategy, regulatory compliance Increased during 2016 Remained stable Decreased during 2016 This Strategic Report up to page 71 was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive officer Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 72 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
