Principal risks and management controls Our principal risks and how we manage them It is a fundamental responsibility of the Board to identify, evaluate and manage risk, as effective riskmanagement isessential to the achievement of our strategic objectives and the safeguarding of Babcocks reputation.
Franco Martinelli Group Finance Director Committee must be approved by the How Babcock manages risk Board.
The Board considers and reviews Babcock has an established formal the controls and mitigation plans in process that aims to identify and evaluate place, that are intended to manage and risks and how they are to be managed.
reduce the potential impact of the risks A range of internal control processes is theCompany takes, toensure, so far as in place as part of the risk management possible, that the assets and reputation regime.
The Board, principally through of the Group are protected.
the Audit and Risk Committee, keeps The Groups risk management and internal under review the risks facing the Group, control systems can, however, only seek including the appropriateness of the level to manage, not eliminate, the risk of of risk the Group may accept in order to failure to achieve business objectives, as achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board any system can only provide reasonable, ensures that it controls the risk appetite not absolute, assurance against material of the Group through its delegated misstatement or loss.
authorities that impose strict controls on the Group for example, all acquisitions and disposals, all material capital expenditure, all material non-ordinary course tenders material ordinary course tenders are approved by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, all financing arrangements unless delegated to the Boards Finance Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Internal controls Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Risk management framework Board The Board is ultimately responsiblefor the Companys riskmanagement and internal control system.
This is overseen The Executive Committee considers onits behalf by the Audit and a monthly report from the Chief RiskCommittee which is Executive, the Group Finance currentlyusually attended Executive Director and each of the Divisional byallBoard members.
Chief Executives on the operational Committee and financial performance of their respective areas of responsibility.
The Audit and Risk Committee Babcock has a Group Security reviews aspects of the risk Committee made up of senior management and control system functional and divisional managers at its meetings and at least once a with responsibility for security and year formally reviews the systems information assurance at Group effectiveness as a whole on behalf and divisional level.
They meet of the Board see the effectiveness regularly to discuss cyber and review statement on page 134. other security and information It also receives in-depth assurance issues and threats Audit and Risk Group Security presentations on individual facing the Group.
The Committee Committee Committee major risks throughout the year.
oversees the Groups security and information assurance management infrastructure and specific security projects.
The Group Finance Director is Chairman of the Committee, and each meeting is attended The Audit and Risk Committee by the Groups Chief Information receives regular reports from Officer and Chief Information Ernst & Young, the internal Security Officer.
The Board receives audit function provider, and regular reports on security and management reports relating to information assurance matters.
internal control and risk issues.
Internal Audit Operationally, internal control systems are monitored by senior Group management with Divisional Chief Executives having responsibility for risk identification and risk management in their businesses.
Read more on page 66 Group risk management The Group Riskand Insurance Manager who reports to the Group Finance Director, working with divisional management teams, keeps the risk register and risk assessment and evaluation process under review and development.
We seek to ensure Employees undertake a selection a coherent and consistent Group of compulsory risk management best practice approach to risk training programmes for example: assessment and risk management.
security, data protection and Risk assessments made at business anti-bribery and corruption unit level are subject to regular training appropriate to their Company review and challenge by Group roles in order to increase senior management.
employees Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 65 Principal risks and management controls continued Our internal controls include Budget process Annual budgets and medium-term financial plans are reviewed by Group management before submission to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
Management and The Board receives details of monthly actual financial performance compared against budget, financial reporting forecast and the prior year, with a written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Divisional Chief Executives and, since 1 April 2016, the Chief Operating Officer pending his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 September 2016 report to each Board meeting on operating performance and matters of potential strategic significance.
Group senior management receives a monthly narrative operating report from all business units.
Security and information There is a formal security and information assurance governance structure in place to oversee and governance structure manage security and similar risks.
Clear delegation The Board regularly reviews and approves a schedule of delegated authorities setting out levels of and limits of authority specific financial decision-making authority delegated by it.
Insurance The Group has a large and comprehensive insurance programme, preferring to place risk in the insurance market, where available on acceptable terms, rather than to self-insure or make significant use of captive insurance.
The Group has a full-time Riskand Insurance Manager who reports annually to the Board on the strategic approach being taken to insurance and on the placing of the programme.
Claims and litigation The Board and the Group Executive Committee receive monthly summaries of material disputes and reporting actual or potential claims, their progress and potential outcomes.
The Group has an internal legal service.
Credit controls, All significant credit risks are reviewed by Group Finance and an Executive Director, and, Code of Conduct and where appropriate and available, risk limitation actions are taken.
ethical, anti-bribery The Group has a Code of Conduct, summarising ethical and anti-bribery and corruption policies, andcorruption policies making clear its commitment to the highest ethical standards and the ethical standards it demands and procedures from its employees and those who work for it and with whom it does business.
There is an anti-bribery and corruption governance structure in place and detailed policy and procedures available on the Babcock website, with supporting training programmes, which the Company believes meet the requirements of adequate procedures under the Bribery Act 2010.
Due diligence is carried out on actual or potential business partners as appropriate.
Those working on our behalf or in consortium with us are required to abide by our Code of Conduct or an equivalent and to undertake not to behave corruptly.
See more on our Code of Conduct on page 62.
Group policies The Group has written policies and procedures, which are kept under review, covering a range of andprocedures matters intended to reduce or mitigate risk, such as: health, safety and environmental policies, security and information assurance, export controls, contracting requirements and guidelines, legal, financial and accounting matters.
These policies and procedures are available to employees on the Group intranet and are supplemented at divisional level by further business unit specific policies and procedures.
Whistleblowing hotline All employees have access to a confidential whistleblowing hotline with the opportunity to call, email or write letters detailing any area of concern whetherfinancial irregularities, non-compliance with laws, or breaches of our Code of Business Conduct, threats to health and safety, conflicts of interest or improper practices to be brought to the attention of senior management if they feel unable to raise them with line management or if they have raised matters, but are not satisfied with the response.
A report on all whistleblowing cases and the resultant investigations and conclusions is submitted to each Audit and Risk Committee meeting see page 90.
Critical supplier reviews Divisions regularly review the vulnerability of key supply chain partners whose continued ability to supply the Group is considered critical to its business performance, and also consider fall-back plans when first deciding to appoint such suppliers.
Business continuity and All divisions, business units and Group functions are required to consider the need for and put in place disaster recovery plans appropriate plans to minimise the risk of interruption to business and contract performance in the event of a major disruption to normal functioning arrangements.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 66 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Principal risks, risk mitigation and controls The risks and uncertainties described below through to page 74 are those that the Board currently considers to be of greatest significance to Babcock in that they have the potential to affect materially and adversely Babcocks business, the delivery of its strategy and or its financial results, condition or prospects.
For each risk there is a short description of the Companys view of the possible impact of the risk on the Group should it occur, and the mitigation and control processes in place to manage the risk which should be read in conjunction with the information above about our risk management approach and general controls.
Babcock is, however, a large and developing group of businesses, and factual circumstances, business and operating environments will change with new risks being identified or the evaluation of the significance of existing risks changing or being better appreciated and understood.
This means that the risks identified below are not and cannot be an exhaustive list of all principal risks that could affect the Group.
Risks and uncertainties which might affect businesses in general and that are not specific to the Group are not included, but Babcock, of course, faces such risks as well.
Our customer profile We rely heavily on winning and retaining large contracts with a relatively limited number of major customers, whether in the UK or overseas.
Many of our major customers are directly or indirectly owned or controlled by government national or local and or are wholly or partly publicly funded.
Our single biggest customer is currently the UK Ministry of Defence the MOD.
These customers are affected by political and public spending decisions.
Commercial customers are also affected by conditions in their market sector which affect their levels of, and priorities for, spending.
Risk Description lower cost, these factors inevitably If the UK votes to leave the European Policy changes following a change of also carry risk.
Union in the referendum to be held on political administration or otherwise and spending constraints on customers are 23 June 2016, the consequences for Large customers, whether public or material factors for the Groups business the Groups business will be difficult to private sector, have significant bargaining and outlook.
predict, as there is likely to be a period power and the ability contractual or of uncertainty over the consequential Whilst the Board believes that policy otherwise to cancel contracts without, effects on the nature, timing and scope changes, spending reviews and restraints or on, short notice, often without cause, of the policies and procurement plans can offer significant opportunities to the or they can exert pressure to renegotiate of both our current and potential Group to assist in the delivery of services them in their favour.
customers in the UK and overseas.
to customers more efficiently and at Potential Impact Periods of uncertainty as to the course of reductions in the number, frequency, favouring small or medium-sized customer policy and spending can result size, scope, profitability and or duration suppliers or adopting a more in the delay, suspension or withdrawal of future contract opportunities: transactional rather than co-operative, oftendering processes and the award partnering approach to customer in the case of existing contracts, early ofcontracts.
supplier relationships: and termination, non-extension or nonrenewal or lower contract spend than imposing new or extra eligibility Whilst customer policy changes or anticipated and pressure to renegotiate requirements as a condition of doing spending constraints can potentially offer contract terms in the customers favour: business with the customer that we more outsourcing opportunities for us to may not be able readily to comply with pursue, they can also be a risk in that favouring the retention or return of or that might involve significant extra theycould lead to changes in customer in-house service provision, either costs impacting the profitability of outsourcing strategy and spend which generally or in the sectors in which doing business with them.
could include: we operate: Mitigation We have extensive and regular dialogue We actively monitor actual and potential We aim to be innovative and responsive with key customers, involving, as political and other developments and in helping customers meet their needs appropriate, our Chief Executive, spending constraints that might affect our and challenges.
Divisional Chief Executives and or customers demand for our services.
other members of the senior management team.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 67 Principal risks and management controls continued The nature of our contracts, bid processes and markets We seek to win relatively long-term contracts for the provision of complex and integrated services to our customers.
Bidding for these contracts typically involves a protracted and detailed tendering process, often under public procurement rules.
There are typically only a relatively limited number of customers in each of the market sectors we serve.
The contracts we bid for often entail a substantial transfer of risk from the customer to the supplier.
Failure to realise the pipeline of opportunities and to secure rebids can mean missed opportunities for growth and loss of revenue.
Risk Description Bidding requires a substantial investment the markets we serve, significant complied with trigger compensation for in terms of manpower resource and is contracting opportunities tend not to the customer and or may result in loss very expensive.
Bids can be subject to arise on a regular or frequent basis.
cancellation, delays or changes in scope.
When we are bidding for such contracts Bid and rebid success rates determine Contract award decisions made under we have to price for the long term and for how much of the pipeline of opportunities public procurement rules can be subject risk transfer, and the scope for later price is realised and turned into profitable to legal challenge by losing bidders.
adjustment may be limited or not exist.
business and how much existing businessis retained.
Given the size and often long-term nature Our contracts typically impose strict of the contracts we bid for and the performance conditions and use key relatively limited numbers of customers in performance indicators KPIs that if not Potential Impact If we lose a bid or a bid process is aborted Not winning rebids could mean the Unsuccessful major bids or rebids by the customer or we withdraw due to loss of significant existing revenue and may adversely impact the strategic scope changes as it progresses, this is a profit streams.
development and growth plans of significant waste of limited resource and the Group.
Loss of bids or rebids can adversely impact substantial expenditure that has to be the strategic development of the Group.
A lack of success in exporting the Groups written off.
business model outside the UK and its If we underestimate or under-price actual If we win a public procurement bid current core markets could adversely risk exposure or the cost of performance and this is challenged, this could lead to impact the growth prospects and strategic this could significantly and adversely affect delay in contract award, expensive legal development of the Group.
our future profitability, cash generation proceedings or the competition having to andgrowth.
Compensation to the customer for Not winning a new bid can be a significant poor KPI performance could significantly missed opportunity for growth which may impair profitability under the contract and not soon be replaced by another.
damages following termination could be substantial.
Mitigation We have a clear business strategy to stages of each material bid that Contractual performance is continually target a large-bid pipeline, both in the UK are intended to reduce the risk of under review at a business unit, and internationally, and will only tender underestimating risks and costs and divisionaland or senior Group executive bids for contracts we consider have a ensure that limited bid resources are level as appropriate with a view to clear alignment with the Group strategy appropriately targeted at opportunities highlighting at an early stage risks to and in which we believe we stand a that we consider have the best prospects delivery and profitability.
realistic chance of success, both in for winning or retaining business.
Group policies and procedures set There are formal and rigorous reviews and a commercial, financial and legal gating processes that are held at key framework for all bids.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Reputation Given the nature of our customers and the markets in which we operate our reputation isa fundamental business asset.
Our businesses include activities that have a high public profile and or if they were to involve adverse incidents or accidents they could attract a high level of publicity.
Risk Description We have a relatively limited number of responsibilities or delivery of critical Attitudes to the outsourcing of services customers and potential customers in our services to their customers.
generally or in a particular sector can market sectors and they typically have also be adversely affected by the poor Failings or misconduct perceived or real raised public profiles.
performance or behaviour of other in dealing with a customer or in providing service providers or incidents in which We are involved in the direct delivery to services to them or on their behalf can we are not involved.
the public on behalf of our customers of substantially damage our reputation high-profile and sensitive services or our with that customer or more generally.
As well as our reputation for service services are critical to our customers The same would be true of high-profile delivery, our ethical reputation is key.
ability to discharge their own public incidents or accidents.
Potential Impact Given our dependence on individual customer or more generally could put at Non-compliance with anti-bribery and major customers and the relatively narrow risk substantial existing business streams corruption laws can result in debarment customer base in the markets in which we and the prospects of securing future from bidding as well as criminal penalties.
currently operate, loss of our reputation business from that or other customers in whether justified or not with a major that or other sectors.
Mitigation Senior management at Group and anti-bribery and corruption, health and See also health, safety and environmental divisional level are keenly aware of safety performance and other matters risks below.
reputational risks, which can come from that could impact our reputation are many sources.
Our risk control procedures described elsewhere on pages56 to 63. relating to contract performance, Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 69 Principal risks and management controls continued Regulatory and compliance burden Our major businesses are dependent on being able to comply with applicable customer or industry-specific requirements or regulations.
If the UK votes to leave the European Union in the referendum to be held on 23 June 2016, the terms of British exit could have implications on the requirements or regulations that are applicable to the business of the Group, including licence to operate in the European Union.
Risk Description The cost of compliance can be high.
For example: European air operators must be majority owned and controlled by Requirements can change.
Our Mission Critical Services business is European Economic Area nationals subject to a high degree of regulation Compliance with some regulatory see page133 for more information.
relating to aircraft airworthiness and requirements is a precondition to being Our civil and defence-related certification and also to ownership and able to carry on a business activity at all.
nuclearbusinesses operate in a control requirements for example, highly-regulated environment.
Potential Impact Failure to maintain compliance with substantial business streams and possible A change in requirements could entail applicable requirements could render the damages claims and opportunities for substantial expenditure which may not be business unable to continue providing future business.
recoverable either fully or at all under services and result in the loss of customer contracts.
Mitigation We seek to maintain a clear We have management systems involving However, if the UK votes to leave the understanding of ongoing regulatory competent personnel with clear European Union in the referendum to be requirements and to maintain good accountabilities for operational held on 23 June 2016, there is likely to be working relationships with regulators.
a period of uncertainty over the exact nature, timing and scope of the regulation We have suitably qualified and Our Articles of Association empower and requirements that will subsequently experienced employees and or expert us to take steps to protect European apply to the Group.
external advisers to advise and assist on air operating licences if necessary by regulatory compliance.
controlling the level and or limiting the rights of non-European Economic Area owners of our shares see pages133 to 134 for more information.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Health, safety and environmental Some of our operations entail the potential risk of significant harm to people, property or the environment.
Risk Description Many of our businesses involve working Some, for example the mission critical rescue, air ambulance and emergency in potentially hazardous operations or operations of our helicopter services, services or the environments in which environments, which need to be properly involve an inherent degree of risk that is they operate low altitude flying in managed and controlled to minimise the compounded by the nature of the services adverse weather, terrains or risk of injury or damage.
provided offshore oil and gas crew .
change services, firefighting, search and Potential Impact Serious accidents can have a major matter of law we would be strictly liable operations may also seriously and impact on the lives of those directly without fault, the Group could be adversely affect the reputation of the involved and on their families, friends, exposed to substantial damages claims, Group or its brand whether that would be colleagues and community, as can serious not all of which exposure may be insured justified or not, which could lead to a environmental incidents.
against, and also to criminal proceedings significant loss of business or future which could result in substantial penalties.
To the extent that we have caused or Such incidents which may have a high contributed to an incident as a result of public profile given the nature of our failings on our part, or because as a Mitigation Health, safety and environmental The Board receives half-yearly reviews Nuclear risks: we believe, having regard to performance receive close and ofhealth and safety and environmental the statutory regime for nuclear liability in continuous attention and oversight performance and the management the UK, the terms on which we do nuclear from the senior management team.
reports tabled at each of its meetings also engineering business and the terms of address health, safety and environment indemnities given to us by the UK Nuclear We have specific health, safety and on an ongoing basis.
Decommissioning Authority and the UK environmental governance structures MOD in respect of the nuclear site in place and extensive and ongoing We believe we have appropriate insurance licensee companies in which we are education and training programmes cover against civil liability exposures.
interested, that the Group would have forstaff.
adequate protection against risk of liability for injury or damage caused by nuclear contamination or incidents, but a reputational risk as a result of any serious incident would remain.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 71 Principal risks and management controls continued People Our business delivery and future growth depends on our ability adequately and successfully to plan for management succession and for our continuing and future need to recruit, develop and retain experienced senior managers, business development teams and highly-skilled employees such as suitably qualified and experienced engineers, technicians, pilots and other specialist skills groups.
Risk Description Competition for the skilled and supply for the foreseeable future.
experienced personnel we need is intense Thisposes risks in both recruiting and and they are likely to remain in limited retaining such staff.
Potential Impact Losing experienced senior managers achieve strategic aims and financial The cost of recruiting or retaining the for any reason without plans for their targets or to pursue business in new areas.
suitably qualified and experienced replacement could have a material employees we need might increase If we have insufficient qualified and adverse effect on the prospects for, or significantly depending on market experienced employees this could impair performance of, the Group and the conditions and this could impact our service delivery to customers or our delivery of our strategy.
ability to pursue new business, with If we have insufficient experienced consequent risks to our financial results, business development or bidding growth, strategy and reputation and the personnel this could impair our ability to risk of contract claims.
Mitigation We give a high priority and devote The Board, the Nominations Committee Further information about this subject and significant resources to recruiting and the Group Executive Committee how we address it is on pages60 to 61of skilledprofessionals, training and regularly receive reports on and or this Annual Report.
development, succession planning discuss these matters.
Apprentice and graduate  are run throughout all divisions.
Pensions The Group has significant defined benefit pension schemes.
These provide for a specified level of pension benefits to scheme members, the cost of which is met from both member and employer contributions paid into pension scheme funds and the investment returns made in those funds over time.
Risk Description The level of our contributions is based on below the calculated cost of the and inflationary expectations can various assumptions, which are subject pensionobligations.
materially affect the pensions charge in to change, such as life expectancy of our income statement from year to year When accounting for our defined benefit members, investment returns, inflation, as well as the value of the net difference schemes we have to use corporate etc.
Based on the assumptions being used between the pension assets and liabilities bond-related discount rates to value the at any time, there is always a risk of a shown on our balance sheet.
Variations in bond yields significant shortfall in the schemes assets Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 72 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Potential Impact Should the assets in the pension schemes Accounting standards for pension There is a risk that future accounting, be judged insufficient to meet pension liabilities can lead to significant regulatory and legislative changes may liabilities we may be required to make accounting volatility from year to year also adversely impact on pension increased contributions and or lump due to the need to take account of valuations and costs for the Group.
sumcash payments into the schemes.
macro-economic circumstances This may reduce the cash available to meet beyond the control of the Company.
the Groups other obligations or business needs, and may restrict the future growth of the business.
Mitigation Continuous strategic monitoring and The Company and the scheme trustees Longevity swaps have been used to evaluation by Group senior management have agreed a long-term investment reduce the impact of the schemes of the assets and liabilities of the pension strategy and risk framework intended to exposure to increasing life expectancy.
scheme and, as appropriate, the reduce the impact of the schemes execution of mitigation opportunities.
exposure to changes in inflation and interest rates.
IT and security Our ability to deliver secure IT and other information assurance systems to maintain the confidentiality of their sensitive information is a key factor for our customers.
During the coming year the Group expects to continue the implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application for the back office within sections of two of our four divisions.
Risk Description Despite controls designed to protect such attempts to penetrate our network Installing major new IT systems carries the information, there can be no guarantee security and misappropriate confidential risk of key system failures and disruption.
that security measures will be sufficient to information.
The risk of loss of information prevent all risk of security breaches or or data by other means is also a risk that cyber-attacks being successful in their cannot be entirely eliminated.
Potential Impact A breach or compromise of IT system an adverse effect on the Groups ability to systems or difficulties experienced in security or physical security at a physical win future contracts and, consequently, doing so could cause both trading and site could lead to loss of reputation, loss on our results of operations and overall financial reporting difficulties that could of business advantage, disruptions in financial condition.
business operations and inability to meet Failure adequately to plan and resource contractual obligations.
This could have the implementation of the new ERP Mitigation We have made and will continue to make The Board receives reports at least Committee and will be implemented in a significant investment in enhancing IT quarterly on security and information phased approach with parallel running of security and security awareness generally.
old and new systems for a period, to what we believe is a realistic timetable.
We have formal security and information The ERP implementation project is assurance governance structures in place overseen and closely monitored by to oversee and manage cyber-security steering and working groups, is regularly and similar risks.
reported on to the Group Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 73 Principal risks and management controls continued Currency exchange rates As we expand outside the UK our financial results are increasingly exposed to the impact of currency exchange rates.
Risk Description We prepare our consolidated results in Exchange rate movements can therefore from the related turnover or income Sterling and translate the value of assets, affect the Sterling financial statements needed to discharge them.
liabilities and turnover reported or and results of the Group.
Non-Sterling currencies to which we are accounted for in non-Sterling currencies.
Expenses or commitments may be currently most exposed are the Euro and incurred in a currency that is different South African Rand.
Potential Impact If the cost of an operation or a contractual in exchange rates can reduce the If the currencies in which our non-UK commitment is denominated or incurred profitability of the operation and business is conducted are weak or weaken against the value of Sterling this will in a currency different from the currency increase the effective cost of adversely affect our reported results and of the income received from that dischargingthe commitment.
the value of any dividend income received operation or that is being relied on to by the Company from non-UK operations.
discharge that commitment, movements Mitigation We seek to mitigate exposure to Although we do not use these to hedge we maintain foreign currency movements in exchange rates in respect against the currency effect in translating borrowingsto limit, in part, the net of material foreign currency denominated for our financial statements the net assets foreign currency exposure.
transactions for example, through use of and income of non-UK subsidiaries and derivative instruments.
long-term equity accounted investments, Acquisitions The Group has grown and expects to continue to grow by making acquisitions as well as organically.
Risk Description The financial benefits of acquisitions may not be realised as quickly and as efficiently as expected.
Potential Impact Failure to realise the anticipated benefits The diversion of management attention financial performance expected at the of an acquisition or delay or higher than to unexpected difficulties encountered time the acquisition terms were agreed expected costs in so doing, could with acquisitions could adversely affect and could fail to justify the price paid, adversely affect the strategic the Groups business.
which could adversely affect the Groups development, business, financial future results and financial position.
Post-acquisition performance of the condition, results of operations or acquired business may not meet the prospects of the Group.
Mitigation Full financial and other due diligence is acquisition.
Integration risk is considered We believe we have a good track record conducted as far as may reasonably be at an early stage as part of the review of in and experience of integrating achievable in the context of each acquisition opportunities and detailed acquisitions, both large and small.
acquisition and a detailed business case, integration planning takes place before with forward looking projections, is completion of the acquisition.
submitted to the Board in respect of each Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 74
