BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 60 Principal risks Risks are identified based on the likelihood of occurrence andthe potential impact on the Group.
The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with a description of how we mitigate those risks.
Defence spending The Group is dependent on defence spending.
Description Impact Mitigation In 2016, 91% of the Groups sales were Lower defence spending by the The business is geographically spread across US, UK and defence-related.
Groups majorcustomers could international defence markets: have a material adverse effect In the US, following the two-year Bipartisan Budget Defence spending by governments can onthe Groups future results Actsigned in 2015, the defence market outlook is fluctuate depending on political considerations, andfinancial condition.
improving with encouraging signs of a return to budgetary constraints, specific threats and growthindefence budgets.
movements in the international oil price.
In the UK, the Spending Review in 2015 outlined a 3.1% There have been constraints on government real-term increase to the defence budget by 2020 as part expenditure in a number of the Groups of the commitment to spend 2% of Gross Domestic principal markets, in particular in the US and Product on defence.
The results of the 2016 elections in the USand EU referendum in the UK have led to In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to dictate that aperiod of uncertainty.
The diverse product and services portfolio is marketed across a range of defence markets.
BAE Systems benefits from a large order backlog, with established positions onlong-term programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia andAustralia.
BAE Systems has a growing portfolio of commercial businesses, including commercial avionics and the commercial areas of the Applied Intelligence business.
Salesin commercial markets represented 9% of the Groupssales in 2016.
Government customers The Groups largest customers are governments.
Description Impact Mitigation The Group has long-standing relationships Deterioration in the Groups Government customers have sophisticated procurement andsecurity arrangements with a number of principal government relationships andsecurity organisations with which the Group can have itsgovernment customers, including its three resulting in the failureto obtain long-standing relationships with well-established and largest customers, the governments of the contracts or expected funding understood terms of business.
US, UK and Saudi Arabia, and their agencies.
appropriations, adverse changes In the event of a customer terminating a contract for Itis important that these relationships and inthe terms ofits arrangements convenience, the Group would typically be paidfor work arrangements are maintained.
with those customers or their done and commitments made atthe time of termination.
agencies, or the termination In the defence and security industries, ofcontracts could have a governments can typically modify contracts materialadverse effect on the fortheir convenience orterminate them at Groups future resultsand shortnotice.
contracts, for example, are funded annually andare subject to cancellation if funding appropriations for subsequent periodsare notmade.
Governments also from time to timereview their terms of trade and underlying policies and seek to impose such new terms and policies when entering into new contracts.
The Groups performance on its contracts withsome government customers is subject tofinancial audits and other reviews which canresult in adjustments to prices and costs.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 61 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements 3. International markets The Group operates in international markets.
Description Impact Mitigation BAE Systems is an international company The occurrence of any such events The Group has a balanced portfolio of businesses across conducting business in a number of regions, could have a material adverse anumber of markets internationally.
The Group benefits including the US and the Middle East.
effect on the Groups future results from a large order backlog, with established positions and financial condition.
onlong-term programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia The risks of operating in some countries include: andAustralia.
political changes impacting the business environment: economic downturns, political The Groups policy is to hedge all material firm transactional instability and civil disturbances: changes in currency exchange rate exposures.
government regulations and administrative The Groups contracts are often long-term in nature and, policies: the imposition of restraints on the consequently, it may be able to mitigate these risks over the movement of capital: the introduction of terms of those contracts.
burdensome taxes or tariffs: and the inability to obtain or maintain the necessary export licences.
Political risk insurance is held in respect of export contracts not structured on a  basis.
The Group is exposed to volatility arising frommovements in currency exchange rates, BAE Systems has a well-established legal and regulatory particularly in respect of the US dollar, euro, compliance structure aimed at ensuring adherence to Saudi riyal and Australian dollar.
There has regulatory requirements and identifying restrictions that been volatility in currency exchange rates in could adversely impact the Groups activities, including theperiod since the announcement of the export control requirements.
results of the 2016 elections in the US and EUreferendum in the UK.
Judicial Review proceedings into the process followed by the UK government in granting defence export licences to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are under way.
A judgment is expected in the near future, which may impact the granting of export licences for the sale of arms to the Kingdom.
The conclusion of the proceedings is awaited.
Competition in international markets The Groups business is subject to significant competition in international markets.
Description Impact Mitigation The Groups business plan depends upon its The Groups business and future The Group has an international, multi-market presence, ability to win and contract for high-quality new results may beadversely impacted abalanced portfolio of businesses, leading capabilities programmes, an increasing number of which if it is unable to compete andatrack record of delivery on its commitments to are expected to be in markets outside the US adequately and obtain new itscustomers.
business in the markets in which The Group continues to invest in research and itoperates.
The Group is dependent upon US and UK development, and to reduce its cost base and improve government support in relation to a number efficiencies, to remain competitive.
ofits business opportunities in export markets.
In the UK, export contracts can be structured on a  basis and government support can also involve military training, ministerial support for promotional activities and financial support through UK Export Finance.
In the US, most of the Groups defence export sales are delivered through theForeign Military Sales process, under which the importing government contracts with the US government.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 62 Principal risks continued 5.
Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Description Impact Mitigation The Group operates in a highly-regulated Failure by the Group, or its sales BAE Systems has a well-established legal and regulatory environment across many jurisdictions and representatives, marketing advisers compliance structure aimed at ensuring adherence to issubject, without limitation, to regulations or others acting on its behalf, to regulatory requirements and identifying restrictions that relating to import-export controls, money comply with these regulations could adversely impact the Groups activities.
laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and could result in fines and penalties Internal and external market risk assessments form an anti-boycott provisions.
It is important that the and or the suspension or debarment important element of ongoing corporate development Group maintains a culture in which it focuses of the Group from government andtraining processes.
onembedding responsible business behaviours contracts or the suspension of the and that all employees act in accordance with Groups export privileges, which A uniform global policy and process for the appointment the requirements of the Groups policies, could havea material adverse ofadvisers engaged in business development is in effect.
including the Code of Conduct, at all times.
The special compliance officer, appointed pursuant to Export restrictions could become more Reduced access to export markets commitments concerning ongoing regulatory compliance stringent and political factors or changing could have amaterial adverse made in the course of the 2011 settlement with the US international circumstances could result in effect on the Groups future results Department ofState, concluded his monitorship in May 2014 theGroup being unable to obtain or maintain and financial condition.
and, at the invitation of BAE Systems, agreed to remain in a necessary export licences.
limited capacity for a limited further period of time.
Contract risk and execution The Group has many contracts, including a small number of large contracts and fixed-price contracts.
Description Impact Mitigation In 2016, 49% of the Groups sales were The inability of the Group to Contract-related risks and uncertainties aremanaged under generated by its 15 largest programmes.
deliveron its contractual the Groups mandated Lifecycle Management process.
At31December 2016, the Group had five commitments, the loss, expiration, A new leadership development programme for project programmes with order backlog in excess suspension, cancellation or directors is being deployed across the Group, covering the of1bn.
termination of any one of its large leadership competencies required to manage complex contracts or its failure to anticipate A significant portion of the Groups revenue projects containing significant levels of risk and uncertainty.
technical problems or estimate isderived from fixed-price contracts.
Actual accurately and control costs on A significant proportion of the Groups largest contracts are costs may exceed the projected costs on fixed-price contracts could have with the UK Ministry of Defence.
In the UK, development whichthe fixed prices are agreed and, since amaterial adverse effect on the programmes are normally contracted with appropriate these contracts can extend over many years, Groups future results and levelsofrisk being initially held by the customer and itcan bedifficult to predict the ultimate financialcondition.
contract structures are used to mitigate risk on production outturn costs.
programmes, including where the customer and contractor It is important that the Group maintains a share cost savings andoverruns against target prices.
culture in which it delivers on its projects The Group has a well-balanced spread of programmes and withintight tolerances of quality, time and significant order backlog which provides forward visibility.
costperformance in a reliable, predictable andrepeatable manner.
The Group has limited exposure to fixed-price design and development activity which is in general more risk intensive than fixed-price production activity.
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes are well established throughout the Group, with decisions required to be taken at the appropriate level in line with clear delegations of authority.
Contract cash profiles The Group is dependent on the award timing and cash profile of its contracts.
Description Impact Mitigation The Groups profits and cash flows are Amounts receivable under the The Groups balance sheet continues to be managed dependent, to a significant extent, on the Groups defence contracts can be conservatively in line with its policy toretain an investment timing of, or failure to receive, award of substantial and, therefore, the timing grade credit rating and to ensure operating flexibility.
defence contracts and the profile of cash of, or failure to receive, awards and The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its liquidity receipts on its contracts.
associated cash advances and requirements to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet milestone payments could materially its operational needs and maintain adequate headroom.
affect the Groups profits and cash flows for the periods affected, thereby reducing cash available to meet the Groups cash allocation priorities, potentially resulting in the need to arrange external funding and impacting its investment grade credit rating.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 63 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements 8.
Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
Description Impact Mitigation In aggregate, there is an actuarial deficit Increases in pension scheme In theUK, new employees have been offered membership between the value of the projected liabilities deficits may require the Group of defined contribution rather than defined benefit ofthe Groups defined benefit pension toincrease the amount of cash schemessince April 2012 and, inthe US, employees have schemes and the assets they hold.
contributions payable to these not accrued salary-related benefits in defined benefit schemes, thereby reducing cash schemes since January 2013.
The deficits may be adversely affected by available to meet the Groups changes in a number of factors, including In 2014, deficit recovery plans, the longest ofwhich runs othercash allocation priorities.
investment returns, long-term interest rate and until 2026, were agreed with the trustees of the Groups price inflation expectations, and anticipated UKpension schemes following triennial funding valuations.
There has been volatility The next UK triennial funding valuations will commence inUS and UK bond yields, in particular in the inApril 2017 and, in conjunction with the trustees of the period since the announcement of the results schemes and other stakeholders, the Group will be looking ofthe 2016 elections in the US and EU at various options witha focus on thelonger-term view.
The reduction in discount rates in 2016 has increased the Groups share of the accounting net pension deficit.
Information technology security The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
Description Impact Mitigation The security threats faced by the Group Failure to combat these risks The Group has a broad range of measures in place, includethreats to its information technology effectively could negatively impact including appropriate tools and techniques, to monitor infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access the Groups reputation among its andmitigate this risk.
to its proprietary or classified information and customers and the public, cause the potential for business disruptions associated disruption to its business operations, with information technology failures.
and could result in a negative impact on the Groupsfuture results and financial condition.
People The Groups strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit and retain people with appropriate talent and skills.
Description Impact Mitigation Delivery of the Groups strategy and business The loss of key employees or The Group recognises that its employees are key to plan is dependent on its ability to compete to inability to attract the appropriate delivering its strategy and business plan, and focuses on recruit and retain people with appropriate people on a timely basis could developing the existing workforce and hiring talented talentand skills, including those with adversely impact its ability to people to meet current and future requirements.
deliver its strategy, meet the The Group has well-established graduate recruitment and business plan and, accordingly, The Groups business plan istargeting an apprenticeship programmes and, in order to maximise the have a negative impact on the increasing level of business in international contribution that its workforce can make to the performance Groups future results and export markets outside the US and UK.
It is of the business, has an effective through-career capability financialcondition.
important that the Group recruits and retains development programme.
management with the necessary international In order to seek to maximise its talent pool, the Group is skills and experience in the relevant jurisdictions.
committed to creating a diverse and inclusive environment for its employees.
BAE Systems continues to reinforce its ethics programme globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in makingethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have anadverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the board of directors on 22 February 2017.
