56 Principal risks Assessing our risks The Board has made a robust assessment of the principal risks which the Group faces, the controls in place to remove or mitigate these Risk description What impact it might have Work risks and also whether these risks represent new, increased or decreased threats.
The assessment of these risks and controls is part of the Failure to identify, price, and execute the right volume Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs versus winning ongoing management of the business.
and quality of bids and investment opportunities to scope, time to complete, impact of inflation and maintain a profitable, sustainable order book and deliver contractual terms and how best to manage them could The principal risks that could adversely impact the Groups profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set out below.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officers review starting on page 49 includes discussion on financial risk factors and going concern.
risk In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor Causes delivery performance by a joint venture partner, the Owner: Inaccuracy in: Risk description What impact it might have Group could face financial and reputational risks.
Health and Group Tender The Group works on significant, complex and Failure to manage these risks gives the potential for assumptions behind investment decisions and Investment safety If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions potentially hazardous projects which require continuous significant harm to, or even the death of, employees, Committee costs versus scope calculations prove incorrect, the profitability of those investments monitoring and management of health and safety risks.
subcontractor staff or members of the public, as well as could be reduced.
project duration estimates No change the potential for criminal prosecutions, significant fines, to risk Build to Last pillar: assessment of the impact of inflation Causes debarment and reputational damage.
How it is mitigated Trusted Some common themes where health and safety contract management Consistent and shared policies and minimum Owner: risks have arisen are recognised and communicated, How it is mitigated negotiation of terms commercial expectations including acceptable margins.
Safety and including: Balfour Beatty has detailed health and safety policies Quick Qualifier assumptions Sustainability A wide and ongoing range of training initiatives across and procedures to minimise such risks.
These are poor risk identification assessment Committee assessment of customers liquidity credit worthiness all disciplines within the Group including Cash is our reviewed and monitored by management and external having processes that fail to promote risk elimination Compass and High Value Selling to drive increased verification bodies.
assessment of joint venture partners.
or mitigation commercial awareness and an understanding of Build to Last pillar: Each business has experienced health and safety failure to deliver leadership expectations on margins and cost.
Safe professionals in place who provide advice and support management of subcontractors All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering and undertake regular reviews.
processes as part of the gateway review process.
not briefing people properly before setting them The Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board, to work Defined delegated authority levels are in place for as well as business-level Health and Safety executive failure to follow procedures approving all tenders and infrastructure investments.
leadership teams, meet regularly throughout the year to develop a consistent approach to health and safety debarment for safety failures Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure best practice.
ongoing change programme and performance lessons are learnt and applied to future tenders.
pressures, which may have an effect on people Training programmes including behavioural Before entering into a joint venture agreement, the and their ability to remain focused on health and are in place.
Group reviews the relevant skills, experience, resources safety risks.
and values of joint venture partners to understand how Zero Harm action plans continue to be implemented.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced professionals.
The Group analyses the risks associated with revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establishes contractual and other risk mitigations.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 Risk description What impact it might have Work Failure to identify, price, and execute the right volume Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs versus winning and quality of bids and investment opportunities to scope, time to complete, impact of inflation and maintain a profitable, sustainable order book and deliver contractual terms and how best to manage them could Decreased value to stakeholders.
risk In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor Causes delivery performance by a joint venture partner, the Owner: Inaccuracy in: Group could face financial and reputational risks.
Group Tender assumptions behind investment decisions and Investment If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions Committee costs versus scope calculations prove incorrect, the profitability of those investments could be reduced.
project duration estimates Build to Last pillar: assessment of the impact of inflation How it is mitigated Trusted contract management Consistent and shared policies and minimum negotiation of terms commercial expectations including acceptable margins.
Quick Qualifier assumptions A wide and ongoing range of training initiatives across assessment of customers liquidity credit worthiness all disciplines within the Group including Cash is our Compass and High Value Selling to drive increased assessment of joint venture partners.
commercial awareness and an understanding of expectations on margins and cost.
All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes as part of the gateway review process.
Defined delegated authority levels are in place for approving all tenders and infrastructure investments.
Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure lessons are learnt and applied to future tenders.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement, the Group reviews the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they complement its own.
com AR2016 58 Principal risks Assessing our risks continued Risk description What impact it might have Risk description What impact it might have Project Data Failure to deliver projects at the required specification Failure to manage or deliver against contracted Breach of data protection laws and or key company Crystallisation of this risk has the potential for: execution governance on time and on budget to meet the expectations of customer requirements on time, on budget and to data or other confidential information is lost, stolen or a reduction or loss of competitive advantage and customers and minimise the risk of defect liability.
an appropriate quality could result in issues such as compromised.
including loss of intellectual property No change contract disputes, rejected claims, design issues, cybersecurity to risk a negative impact on customer relationships Causes liquidated damages, cost overruns or failure to achieve Causes including loss of confidence Failure to implement, maintain and challenge customer savings which in turn harm Balfour Beattys Failure to correctly assess and prepare for: Increased Owner: operational and commercial controls as detailed within profitability and reputation.
exposure to fines or prosecution ie Data Protection risk the increased threat of cybercrime and or the Group checklists at Gate reviews 4-6 allowing: Act The Group may also be exposed to long-term requirements of the revised Data Protection Act management disruption to business operations Owner: unrealistic programming targets obligations including litigation and costs to rectify malicious intent and or targeted attack Group defective or unsafe work.
reputational damage in the wider marketplace unrealistic progress assessments and cost to breakdown of key security software or Build to Last pillar: management complete judgements exclusion from bidding opportunities.
Execution failure on a high-profile project could result in management system.
Trusted significant reputational damage and costs.
optimistic claims recovery assumptions How it is mitigated Build to Last pillar: incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale Dedicated Data Protection Officers embedded Trusted How it is mitigated of commercial judgements throughout the business to ensure pertinent An increased focus on identifying and reporting risks, inaccurate and or incomplete cost and value data or information cascade including data classification including the accuracy of cost and cash forecasting.
failure to analyse and report correctly, which could guidance.
Consistent application of strong commercial arise due to poor training, lack of supervision, lack Data protection programme covering policies, management and contract administration processes.
of accountability or fear of reporting bad news.
procedures and approved access levels in place Targeted recruitment of key staff within project delivery alongside a comprehensive training plan.
teams and senior management, together with ongoing All data is stored in secure data centres with frequent and focused training of staff.
synchronisation of data between live and standby data Gateway process embedded within each business and centres.
held on the Business Management System BMS, see Use of up-to-date anti-virus and encryption software.
page 17 to increase accuracy and consistency within project delivery.
Only approved software is installed on Group hardware and portable data storage devices.
Project delivery teams encouraged to Get Left in Gated Lifecycle process to increase integration within Regular review and communication of the everthe work winning strategy.
changing cyber threats and how they manifest themselves in practical guidance that all employees and Increased rigour at Gate 5 onwards, including direct contractors understand.
senior management oversight and challenge.
All employees are trained in and must comply with Site Mobilisation Hub in place to facilitate early and information security management obligations.
The My Contribution initiative has delivered a significant number of local level improvements in project delivery including efficiencies in service level agreements, greater use of BIM technology and resource allocation.
A strong pipeline of ideas will be assessed across 2017 to drive further improvements.
Balfour Beatty Academy providing focused training.
Quality culture, appropriate resource, competencies and accountabilities to be embedded in the business to support drive for defect-free delivery at all levels.
Professional indemnity cover in place to provide further safeguards.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of joint ventures, joint venture partners, subcontractors and suppliers throughout the lifecycle of a project.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 59 Risk description What impact it might have Data Breach of data protection laws and or key company Crystallisation of this risk has the potential for: governance data or other confidential information is lost, stolen or a reduction or loss of competitive advantage and compromised.
including loss of intellectual property cybersecurity a negative impact on customer relationships Causes including loss of confidence Failure to correctly assess and prepare for: Increased exposure to fines or prosecution ie Data Protection risk the increased threat of cybercrime and or the Act requirements of the revised Data Protection Act disruption to business operations Owner: malicious intent and or targeted attack Group reputational damage in the wider marketplace breakdown of key security software or management exclusion from bidding opportunities.
How it is mitigated Build to Last pillar: Dedicated Data Protection Officers embedded Trusted throughout the business to ensure pertinent information cascade including data classification guidance.
Data protection programme covering policies, procedures and approved access levels in place alongside a comprehensive training plan.
All data is stored in secure data centres with frequent synchronisation of data between live and standby data centres.
Use of up-to-date anti-virus and encryption software.
Regular review and communication of the everchanging cyber threats and how they manifest themselves in practical guidance that all employees and contractors understand.
All employees are trained in and must comply with information security management obligations.
com AR2016 60 Principal risks Assessing our risks continued Risk description What impact it might have Risk description What impact it might have Uncertainty People The effects of national or market trends, political Any significant changes in the level or timing of Inability to attract and retain required levels of skilled Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people within our change including the UKs exit from the EU and customer spending or investment plans could adversely and competent staff to meet the Groups objectives.
could harm the Groups ability to win or perform Static economic the change of administration in the US, or new impact the Groups strategy, business model, revenue specific contracts, grow its business and meet its risk developments in infrastructure expenditure or or profitability in the short or medium term.
environment procurement may cause customers to re-evaluate changes could arise from changes in government policy Perceived limitations to internal career development Owner: A high level of staff turnover or low employee existing or future projects.
or customers failure to secure financing for future Increased Lack of recognition and reward The Board engagement could result in a drop in confidence in the projects or for future stages of existing projects.
risk Failure of businesses to promote good news stories business within the market, customer relationships Causes Restrictions to the availability of skilled labour and being lost and an inability to focus on business Failure to maintain a culture of pride in the workplace Build to Last pillar: The business may not be effective in managing the Owner: competitively priced materials will lead to a loss improvements.
Expert uncertainty surrounding the terms of the UKs exit from Lack of a diverse workforce The Board of competitive advantage and a devaluation of the the EU or anticipating or assessing broader national Restrictions in the availability of skilled labour.
How it is mitigated or market events and developments.
Failure to plan Balfour Beatty Academy in place to provide Build to Last pillar: Financial failure of a customer, including any for any potentially negative impacts, or to capture any professional development and knowledge sharing Expert government or public sector body, could result in not opportunities that may be presented could lead to: opportunities to ensure employees feel valued and collecting amounts owed.
cash pressures for customers and suppliers specialisms are recognised.
wider than expected fluctuations in inflation How it is mitigated Strengthening of the Learning and Development and increased competition eg in the UK from foreign The Groups strategy to focus on the more resilient and Talent teams.
investors acquiring competitors stable infrastructure markets and geographies will help Regular reviews of remuneration arrangements to mitigate this risk.
The effect of spending changes in any increased supply chain risks eg solvency, people ensure they are appropriate to help the Group attract, one market is mitigated by the Groups broad exposure and materials motivate and retain key employees.
to infrastructure markets and the continued need for reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
Strong employee communication channels celebrating infrastructure spending.
Balfour Beatty also mitigates individual, business and Group-level successes.
the effects of such market conditions by continuing to adapt its business model.
Change management initiatives are well embedded within the business and aligned to the Build to Last The Group is actively monitoring the potential transformation programme.
impacts of the UK exiting the EU including potential market stimulation by the UK Government, freedom An annual Group-wide employee engagement survey of movement, finance costs, exchange rates and is undertaken to measure engagement and appropriate commodity prices.
A dedicated Group-wide forum is actions are developed and communicated.
in place for this purpose and a key strategy document Recruitment, retention and succession plans are Infrastructure 2050 has been shared with the UK measured and regularly reviewed across all parts of the Government and wider industry.
The financial solvency and strength of counterparties Affinity networks established to create a diverse and is always considered before contracts are signed inclusive working environment.
and such assessments are updated and reviewed whenever possible during the project lifecycle.
The business also seeks to ensure that it is not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 Risk description What impact it might have People Inability to attract and retain required levels of skilled Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people and competent staff to meet the Groups objectives.
could harm the Groups ability to win or perform Static specific contracts, grow its business and meet its risk Causes strategic objectives.
Perceived limitations to internal career development Owner: A high level of staff turnover or low employee Lack of recognition and reward The Board engagement could result in a drop in confidence in the Failure of businesses to promote good news stories business within the market, customer relationships being lost and an inability to focus on business Failure to maintain a culture of pride in the workplace Build to Last pillar: improvements.
Expert Lack of a diverse workforce Restrictions in the availability of skilled labour.
How it is mitigated Balfour Beatty Academy in place to provide professional development and knowledge sharing opportunities to ensure employees feel valued and specialisms are recognised.
Strengthening of the Learning and Development and Talent teams.
Regular reviews of remuneration arrangements to ensure they are appropriate to help the Group attract, motivate and retain key employees.
Strong employee communication channels celebrating individual, business and Group-level successes.
Change management initiatives are well embedded within the business and aligned to the Build to Last transformation programme.
An annual Group-wide employee engagement survey is undertaken to measure engagement and appropriate actions are developed and communicated.
Recruitment, retention and succession plans are measured and regularly reviewed across all parts of the business.
Affinity networks established to create a diverse and inclusive working environment.
com AR2016 62 Principal risks Assessing our risks continued Risk description What impact it might have Risk description What impact it might have Embedding Supply The traction gained in embedding the policies, process, Failure to build fully upon the foundations of Build Supply chain partners are not able to meet the Groups Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the the chain and practices of Build to Last is lost and potential to Last could result in the Groups ability to return to operational expectations and requirements including Group having to find a replacement or undertaking the transformation benefits are not realised.
sustained profit and viability being jeopardised.
availability, financial stability, technical ability, quality, task itself.
This could result in delays, additional costs or No change safety, environmental, social and ethical.
a reduction in quality owing to lack of expertise.
programme to risk Causes How it is mitigated Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their To enable the transformation programme to succeed, a The success of Build to Last is a strategic priority Causes No change staff, or poor ethical standards in the supply chain, Owner: culture of adhering to the Build to Last principles must for the Group and is being led by the Group Chief Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and to risk could lead to legal proceedings, investigations or Group be embedded.
when emerging from, tough economic conditions disputes resulting in business disruption, losses, fines management Owner: Failing to embed this culture could result from: The programme is being delivered in several phases Over-reliance on a limited number of suppliers and penalties, reputational damage and debarment.
The Board and required controls and resources have been well Retention of subcontracted parties in buoyant ineffective communication plans Build to Last pillar: considered.
How it is mitigated markets inadequate resourcing financial, physical and people Lean The Group aims to develop long-term relationships Build to Last pillar: Controls include: Inadequate assessment of supply chain partner employee fatigue with change programme and loss with key subcontractors, working closely with them to All capabilities and process including safety, ethics, of focus owing to a perceived high number and the Build to Last culture is now well embedded understand their operations and dependencies.
quality, material stewardship, child labour, forced frequency of new initiatives within each business unit labour and modern slavery Contingency plans in place to address subcontractor senior leadership communication across the new systems and processes being used without failure including replacement supplier list.
Failure to accurately assess project resource businesses is clear and frequent appropriate controls being in place and or tested.
requirements and key deliverables A simplified but more frequent assessment of all new systems and processes are deployed with Unethical treatment of the supply chain.
suppliers and subcontractors, to ensure compliance training plans with all requirements Balfour Beatty commit to, using employee surveys form a key part of the programme Achilles and internal assessment tools.
leaders throughout the business frequently monitor The risk management framework and the gateway the delivery and impacts of the programme review process allow for early Gates 1-4 and ongoing senior leadership is well experienced in delivering Gate 6 assessment of the appropriateness of resource business transformation successfully.
My Contribution programme to generate ideas for more Risk description What impact it might have Financial effective procurement and resourcing.
Inability of the Group to maintain the financial strength Failure to effectively deliver the required financial strength required to operate its business and deliver its strength will mean the Group: Upgrading of skills across the procurement process.
fails to meet financial covenant tests, as set out in No change The Group obtains project retentions, bonds and or its financing facility agreements, that would lead to to risk letters of credit from subcontractors, where appropriate Causes an event of default if not remedied within a specific to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Failure to manage financial risks and the financial grace period Owner: resources of the Group that underpin its ability to: Key supplier audits within projects to ensure they are in The Board fails to pass the required tests that allow it to a position to deliver consistently against requirements.
meet ongoing liquidity obligations so that it remains a continue to adopt the going concern basis of going concern Group-wide Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of preparing the financial statements Build to Last pillar: Conduct, and related policies and procedures in place.
meet financial covenants as set out in financing loses the ability to compete for key long-term Trusted facility agreements contracts that are critical to the delivery of its longmaintain the confidence of customers and key term objectives and viability.
markets and therefore continue to win long-term contracts.
How it is mitigated The Group operates with a centralised treasury function that is responsible for managing key financial risks, cash resources and the availability of liquidity and credit capacity.
The Group maintains significant undrawn term committed bank facilities with a banking group of high credit-quality to underpin the liquidity requirements of the Group.
The Group maintains significant bank and surety bonding facilities to deliver trade finance requirements of the Group on an ongoing basis.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Risk description What impact it might have Supply Supply chain partners are not able to meet the Groups Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the chain operational expectations and requirements including Group having to find a replacement or undertaking the availability, financial stability, technical ability, quality, task itself.
to risk Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their Causes staff, or poor ethical standards in the supply chain, Owner: Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and could lead to legal proceedings, investigations or Group when emerging from, tough economic conditions disputes resulting in business disruption, losses, fines management Over-reliance on a limited number of suppliers and penalties, reputational damage and debarment.
Retention of subcontracted parties in buoyant Build to Last pillar: How it is mitigated markets Lean The Group aims to develop long-term relationships Inadequate assessment of supply chain partner with key subcontractors, working closely with them to capabilities and process including safety, ethics, understand their operations and dependencies.
quality, material stewardship, child labour, forced labour and modern slavery Contingency plans in place to address subcontractor failure including replacement supplier list.
Failure to accurately assess project resource requirements and key deliverables A simplified but more frequent assessment of all Unethical treatment of the supply chain.
suppliers and subcontractors, to ensure compliance with all requirements Balfour Beatty commit to, using Achilles and internal assessment tools.
The risk management framework and the gateway review process allow for early Gates 1-4 and ongoing Gate 6 assessment of the appropriateness of resource allocation and dependencies.
My Contribution programme to generate ideas for more effective procurement and resourcing.
Upgrading of skills across the procurement process.
The Group obtains project retentions, bonds and or letters of credit from subcontractors, where appropriate to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Key supplier audits within projects to ensure they are in a position to deliver consistently against requirements.
Group-wide Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct, and related policies and procedures in place.
com AR2016 64 Principal risks Assessing our risks continued Risk description What impact it might have Risk description What impact it might have Business Legacy The Group operates in various markets that present Failure by the Group, or employees and third parties The Group remains exposed to significant defined Failure to manage these risks adequately could lead conduct pension business conduct-related risks involving fraud, bribery acting on its behalf or in partnership, to observe the benefit pension risks.
to the Group being exposed to significant additional compliance liabilities or corruption, whether by its own staff or via third highest standards of integrity and conduct could result liabilities.
parties such as agents, partners or subcontractors.
in litigation, civil and or criminal penalties, debarment Causes No change Those risks are higher in some countries and sectors.
No change The size of the Groups legacy pension obligations is How it is mitigated to risk Overall, the construction industry has a higher risk to risk largely related to the investment performance of the The Group constructively engages with the trustees profile than other industries.
How it is mitigated assets held in the pension funds, net of the change in of the pension funds to ensure that the funds assets Owner: Group-wide Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Owner: the value of the funds liabilities.
The latter are typically and liabilities are managed in a way which reduces the The Board Causes Conduct, and related policies and procedures in place.
The Board related to changes in the long-term outlook for interest likelihood of an unexpected cost to the Company.
Corruption rates, inflation and life expectancy.
The Business Integrity function promotes, monitors, Following the successful conclusion of the 2016 Bribery Build to Last pillar: assesses awareness of and provides training on, the The size of the obligations could also be adversely actuarial valuation, the trustees of the Groups main Build to Last pillar: Lean Code of Conduct.
The function reports to the Audit and influenced by intervention from regulators or legislators.
UK fund have agreed to hedge in excess of 80% of its Trusted Fraud false claims Risk Committee and has the full support of the Board.
exposure to interest rate and inflation movements.
Unfair competition Each business unit, supported by the Business Integrity Human rights abuses, such as child and other function, is responsible for embedding the Code of labour standards generally, illegal workers, human Conduct.
trafficking and modern slavery Unethical treatment of and by the supply chain The Group has a range of risk assessment, due diligence and procurement controls that are designed to Other emerging ethical risks identify and manage risks with third parties.
Risk of ethics and values being compromised when Independent third-party whistleblowing hotline and times are tough, not just in high-risk markets.
dedicated email are in place and actively promoted.
All in-scope complaints are independently investigated by the Business Integrity function and appropriate action is taken, where necessary.
Balfour Beatty works with a limited number of agents, all of whom undergo a due diligence and approval process.
Risk description What impact it might have Legal and The Group does not comply with all legal, tax and The business could face legal proceedings, regulatory regulatory requirements.
investigations or disputes resulting in business disruption, losses, fines and penalties, reputational No change Causes damage and exclusion from bidding.
to risk Failure to adapt to changes in applicable laws affecting Such action could also impact upon the valuation of the Groups businesses.
Owner: Such changes may include: The Board How it is mitigated obligations as a result of government regulatory The Group monitors and responds to tax, legal and enquiry and enforcement actions Build to Last pillar: regulatory developments and requirements in the Trusted adverse changes of law, including changes to tax law territories in which it operates.
local procurement laws Local legal and regulatory frameworks are considered exclusion from bidding or blacklisting.
as part of any decision to conduct business in a new country.
Appropriate and responsive policies, procedures, training and risk management processes are in place throughout the business.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 65 Risk description What impact it might have Legacy The Group remains exposed to significant defined Failure to manage these risks adequately could lead pension benefit pension risks.
to the Group being exposed to significant additional liabilities liabilities.
Causes No change The size of the Groups legacy pension obligations is How it is mitigated to risk largely related to the investment performance of the The Group constructively engages with the trustees assets held in the pension funds, net of the change in of the pension funds to ensure that the funds assets Owner: the value of the funds liabilities.
The latter are typically and liabilities are managed in a way which reduces the The Board related to changes in the long-term outlook for interest likelihood of an unexpected cost to the Company.
rates, inflation and life expectancy.
Following the successful conclusion of the 2016 Build to Last pillar: The size of the obligations could also be adversely actuarial valuation, the trustees of the Groups main Lean influenced by intervention from regulators or legislators.
UK fund have agreed to hedge in excess of 80% of its exposure to interest rate and inflation movements.
Balfour Beatty also faces significant risks In its assessment of the viability of the Based on the Groups processes for and uncertainties that are common to Group, the Directors have considered the monitoring operating costs, managing many companies including financial and need to be successful in implementing Group performance, asset allocation, the treasury, communications and marketing, the Groups Build to Last programme and portfolio risk profile, gearing, counterparty wider information security, business focus on strategic priorities of Lean, Expert, exposure, liquidity risk and financial continuity and crisis management, and Trusted and Safe detailed on pages 12 to controls, the Directors have concluded hazard risks.
17, as well as each of the Groups principal that there is a reasonable expectation risks and uncertainties detailed on pages that the Group will be able to continue in Viability statement 56 to 65.
The Directors have considered operation and meet its liabilities as they In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the the impact of a number of severe but fall due over the three-year period until UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, plausible scenarios, based on the Groups 31 December 2019. the Directors have assessed the viability principal risks, which would result in Our 2016 Strategic Report, from pages of the Group over a three-year period to a reduction in revenue, a reduction in 1 to 65, was approved by the Board on 31 December 2019.
The Directors consider margin, an increase in operating costs and 15 March 2017. this period to be appropriate because this a slowdown in the Groups investments Philip Harrison is the period aligned to the current order disposal programme.
The Directors have Chief Financial Officer book or for which there is a good pipeline also considered the Groups income and of potential new projects.
This period expenditure projections, the Groups also allows greater certainty over the projected cash position, bank facilities forecasting assumptions used in labour and their maturity profile and covenants, and material pricing, skills and availability.
the borrowing powers allowed under the Consequently, the Group performs its Companys Articles of Association and medium-term planning over three years.
the fact that the Groups PPP investments comprise reasonably realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
