Risk identification and escalation Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 53 Risk management framework Strengthening our risk management culture Oversight Audit & Risk Committee Business environment risk Policy tone from the top Common risk infrastructure Executive risk steering group Strategic risk Process People Technology Risk process Risk management community of practice Strategic Business Units & Enabling Functions Operating risk Design Monitor, Identify Assess & Respond to implement and assure & risks evaluate risks risks test controls escalate The Gated Lifecycle Key project risks assessed at each gate Contract Commissioning & Defects liability Initial enquiry Tender Mobilisation Execution negotiations handover period Gate 1 Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 7 Gate 8 Initial Tender Tender Contract Pre-commencement Monitoring Project End of Go No Go Go No Go submission signing and control completion defects approval approval approval approval liability period balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 Governance mitigation and controls 54 Risk management framework Strengthening our risk management culture continued Significant steps were taken throughout 2016 to continue the evolution of the Groups risk management processes.
These actions included enhancements to risk assessment, leading The Group recognises that to increased understanding of the principal risks and opportunities faced by the business consistent and effective and provided the context for more informed decision making across the Group.
risk management is vital to The Group recognises that consistent and effective risk management is vital to the delivery of its strategic development and business objectives.
the delivery of its strategic development and business Oversight objectives.
Consistent with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has overall responsibility for risk management and determines the nature and extent of the principal risks to be taken as well as assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems that are in place to mitigate impacts.
The main area of focus in 2016 was to build on the existing risk management framework and to increase the visibility of risk to senior leadership and the wider business as well as aligning the way in which assessment of risk is undertaken.
Common risk infrastructure The Executive Risk Steering Group reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and has oversight of and monitors the effectiveness of the Companys risk management process.
Members of the steering group act as the executive sponsor for risk management within their business and functions and as such are in a position to directly influence custom and practice.
In 2016 this steering group has overseen a comprehensive review and redrafting of the Group Risk Register which has been reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and will drive business improvements throughout 2017.
Risk process A Group-wide Risk Management Community of Practice CoP is in place to provide cross-functional and business perspective on the practical implementation of risk management and provide practitioner level input to the Group Risk Register.
Additionally the CoP provides a forum for sharing best practice, knowledge and collaboration on risk management across the functions and businesses.
A comprehensive training programme has been undertaken throughout the UK business during 2016.
This has raised risk consciousness across the organisation and allowed risk management to be built into activities from project pursuit, through design, delivery and completion.
Assessment The Gated Lifecycle remains central to Balfour Beattys risk management process with a mandatory assessment of risk and risk appetite being made at each review gate.
Work continues on the roll-out of project manager training delivered through the Balfour Beatty Academy, increased cascade and promotion of minimal commercial expectations and continued adherence to Group commercial policies and process.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 55 Risk appetite The ongoing development of Balfour Beattys risk management processes has included an evaluation of the Groups willingness to take risks based on informed decision making in order to meet strategic priorities.
The Groups risk appetite has been set in the context of the interaction between risk assessment processes and Balfour Beattys ability to mitigate and exert control over existing and emerging risks.
Risk appetite within any organisation must be dynamic.
Changes to the business environment and the Groups strategic priorities will require a reassessment of tolerances.
The tone and direction for any such revision is led by the Board and implemented by senior leaders and practitioners to ensure it is embedded in critical business processes.
Strategic priority Build to Last Lean Expert Trusted Safe Deliver value to Ensure we Be the We must ensure our customers have the best construction the health and by improving engineering partner of choice safety of everyone operational and project for our customers who comes into efficiency and management and supply chain contact with eliminating waste capabilities.
by delivering on our activities.
right through the our promises.
Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Balfour Beatty is In order to deliver the best Balfour Beatty must Conducting business in a committed to the solutions to customers and deliver on its promises safe way and providing a transformation programme.
stakeholders Balfour Beatty to stakeholders.
Zero Harm environment for strives to remain at the Balfour Beattys people and In driving out unnecessary The Group has a low vanguard of innovation and stakeholders is paramount.
cost and improving appetite for risks around skill development.
efficiencies it is essential to customer delivery.
The Groups appetite for take some operational risk.
Controlled and understood safety risk is zero.
Work winning risks can be taken whilst Such risks must not be at seeking to mitigate Read more on p57 Health and safety the expense of achieving significant repercussions.
Read more on p56 the overall lean objective.
Project execution The Group has a moderate Read more on p58 The Groups risk appetite for Transformation appetite for expert risk.
programme Data governance Economic environment Read more on p62 Transformation Read more on p59 programme Read more on p60 Transformation Read more on p62 programme People Read more on p62 Supply chain Read more on p61 Read more on p63 Financial strength Transformation Read more on p62 Legacy pension programme liabilities Read more on p62 Business conduct Read more on p65 Read more on p64 Legal and regulatory Read more on p64 balfourbeatty.
