Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk management We balance risk against opportunity The Risk Management function is accountable to the CEO and the Risk Committee of the Board.
In 2016, Barclays financial condition and our results were subject to various external developments, including market volatility related to the UKs vote to leave the EU in June, as well as reflationary expectations related to the US elections in November.
In 2017, we will continue to monitor the external environment, including: macro-economic risks in the UK and Europe, heightened risk of global reflation and the possible end of central bank quantitative easing, as well as ongoing regulatory developments.
Barclays engages in activities which entail risk taking, every day, throughout its business.
The firm is vulnerable to credit losses in its lending and banking transactions.
It experiences gains and losses from market risk in its traded positions.
It is subject to treasury risk including liquidity, leverage and capital gains or losses in its financial management.
Many important activities are managed and controlled through models, which introduce risk in themselves.
Across its business, the firm is subject to operational risks, including from fraud, and process or technology failure.
Our reputation is important when it comes to trust Summary in the firms integrity and competence.
In addition Barclays may, in its activities, create conduct risk in relation to its customers, clients and the Risk management at Barclays is directed markets in which it operates.
Lastly, Barclays faces the risk of being penalised for not meeting its legal obligations.
and overseen by the independent Risk The firm sets a risk appetite based on current and anticipated exposures, Management function.
The functions and views on the evolution of markets and the economy in normal and primary roles are to define the level of risk stressed conditions.
In effect, the risk appetite is designed to measure the amount of market volatility and stress the firm can withstand, while taking for the Group in normal and stressed still meeting its financial goals and regulatory requirements.
This enables economic conditions and to oversee that the Risk function to set, monitor and enforce appropriate risk limits.
business activities are undertaken to be The overall governance of Risk is defined in an Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF, which describes how Barclays consistent with these levels.
The framework defines the Principal Risks to which the firm is subject to see table overleaf.
Model risk, reputation risk and legal risk are newly classified as Principal Risks in the latest For further information, see home.
barclays annualreport version of the ERMF, reflecting the heightened importance of these risk types in the current environment.
Other risks may also arise from time to time, for example, the firm is also subject to political and regulatory risks.
While these risks are not considered Principal Risks, they are also subject to the principles set out in the ERMF and overseen by Risk Management.
The firm sets a risk appetite based on current and anticipated exposures, and views on the evolution of markets and the economy in normal and stressed conditions.
All colleagues have a specific responsibility for risk management under a Three Lines of Defence model.
The First Line includes customer and client-facing colleagues and supporting functions.
The role of the first line is to identify and manage risks.
The Risk and Compliance functions form the Second Line.
They set and monitor compliance with the rules and limits needed to stay within risk appetite.
Finally, Internal Audit is the Third Line, who provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of risk management.
The ERMF also sets out Risk governance principles and committee structures.
The ERMF is approved by the Board.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 13 Risk management We balance risk against opportunity a Principal Risks are overseen by a dedicated Second Line function Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are incurred managed Credit The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, We incur credit risk when we lend money, e. g. to individual Risk customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully customers including mortgages, credit cards and personal honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole and loans, small and medium-sized businesses, loans to large timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other companies: and from derivatives contracts.
Market The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the We incur market risk via trading activities with clients and via the Risk value of the firms assets and liabilities from fluctuation in liquid assets Barclays holds to ensure we can meet our shortterm obligations.
market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury Liquidity Risk: We can incur liquidity risk in the event of severe financial market and Capital The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or disruptions or Barclays idiosyncratic events that impede the Risk contingent obligations or that it does not have the banks ability to secure funding.
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and Capital risk is mainly due to large unexpected losses, which can liquidity to support its assets.
arise, e. g. from economic or market events or fines.
Changes in Capital Risk: regulations can also affect the assessment of capital adequacy.
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition Interest rate risk arises because assets, such as loans to of capital to support its normal business activities and to customers, and liabilities, such as deposits, carry different meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal interest rates.
Losses can occur when interest rate changes affect operating environments or stressed conditions both actual the performance of assets and liabilities differently.
Interest rates and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing have different impacts on assets and liabilities due to contractual purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms pension differences, e. g. fixed vs floating interest rate profiles.
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and liabilities.
Operational The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed Operational risks are inherent in the firms activities, and can rise, Risk processes or systems, human factors or due to external e. g. from fraud, process or technology failures.
events e. g. fraud where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
Model The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial Model risk is incurred through model misuse and poorly Risk assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused designed implemented models.
Reputation The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will Reputation risk is managed by maintaining a positive and Risk reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by clients, dynamic culture within Barclays, ensuring that we act with counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be built with customers and clients, colleagues and broader society.
All colleagues are responsible for the management and Conduct The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, Risk competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of mitigation of conduct risk.
The Compliance function sets the minimum standards that are required to ensure this risk is financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
managed and provide oversight to ensure these risks are effectively managed and escalated where appropriate.
Legal The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated global Risk from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and other including regulatory or contractual requirements.
sanctions relating to the conduct of its business.
The Group General Counsel and the Legal function support colleagues to mitigate legal risk.
Note a Legal risk is overseen by the Group General Counsel and the Legal function, which are not part of the Three Lines of Defence 14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information In 2016, markets experienced three distinct phases of volatility.
At the start of the year, fears of a slowdown in China led to a sharp decline in global interest rates and equity markets.
Mid-year, closer to home, the UKs vote to leave the EU led not just to volatility in financial markets but also drove a steep decline in Sterling to levels not seen in 30 years.
Moreover, the referendum has sparked fears, which still persist, of resultant real weakness in the UK economy.
Toward the end of the year, US election results buoyed international equity markets, and sparked rate rises on the anticipation of global reflation.
The firm has aimed to prudently manage its exposures to financial markets over the last year, consistent with our risk appetite and engagement in global financial markets.
The results of the UK referendum and the US elections will likely be felt over 2017 and beyond, and require continued care in managing the firms exposures, not just in financial markets but in credit portfolios.
In addition to financial risk, the firm continues to monitor its risk processes and operational risks closely.
Focus areas in 2016 have included credit risk, with a management review of the UK and US cards portfolio impairment modelling leading to process enhancements, and operational risk focus areas including technology and information security.
The number of well-publicised instances of cyber-attacks and related fraud has been increasing in both scope and size, placing a greater need to increase protection.
Barclays also continues to pay careful attention to the management of conduct and reputational risks please see pages 160 and 161.
The firm continues to respond to evolving regulatory requirements, including in relation to IFRS9, stress testing, UK Structural Reform, and the institution of the Intermediate Holding Company IHC in the US.
These changes require considerable risk management effort and monitoring please see material existing and emerging risks outlined in the Risk Review section on page 137.
In particular, IFRS9 implementation is expected to result in higher impairment loss allowances that are recognised earlier, on a more forward-looking basis and on a broader scope of financial instruments.
Finally, in 2016, the firm commenced the re-organisation of the risk management function by legal entity.
This is being done in compliance with the requirements of Structural Reform and to support the IHC.
In summary, the scale, complexity and requirements of Risk Management have been steadily increasing since the financial crisis of 2008-2009, and will continue to do so.
At the same time, the market and economic environment are showing greater signs of flux, after a relatively long period of improving credit conditions and quiescent volatility.
The combination of these factors will likely pose important challenges for Risk Management in 2017.
C. S. Venkatakrishnan Chief Risk Officer home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 15
