Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Supervision and regulation Supervision of the Group Barclays Bank PLC is authorised and subject to solo and consolidated prudential supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct regulation and The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations that supervision by the FCA.
Barclays Bank PLCs Italian and French branches are also subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank ECB.
are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial services business.
These apply to business operations, impact financial In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to maintain the safety and returns and include reserve and reporting requirements and prudential soundness of financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but and conduct of business regulations.
These requirements are set by the not guaranteeing, the protection of customers and the financial system.
relevant central banks and regulatory authorities that authorise, regulate The PRAs continuing supervision of financial institutions is conducted and supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of requirements generally reflect global standards developed by, amongst information by way of prudential returns, reports obtained from skilled others, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS, the persons, visits to firms and regular meetings with management to International Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO and the discuss issues such as performance, risk management, conduct and Financial Stability Board FSB.
They also reflect requirements imposed culture and strategy.
directly by, or derived from, EU legislation.
Various bodies, such as central banks, also create voluntary Codes of Conduct which affect the The regulation and supervision of market conduct matters is the responsibility of the FCA.
The FCAs regulation of the UK firms in the way the Group does business.
Group is carried out through a combination of continuous assessment, Regulatory developments impact the Group globally.
We focus regular thematic and project work based on the FCAs sector particularly on EU, UK and US regulation due to the location of Barclays assessments, which analyse the different areas of the market and the principal areas of business.
Regulations elsewhere will affect Barclays due risks that may lie ahead.
to the location of its branches, subsidiaries and, in some cases, clients.
Both the PRA and the FCA have continued to develop and apply a more The Group and certain of its members are subject to supervisory stress assertive approach to supervision and the application of existing testing exercises in a number of jurisdictions.
This may include application of standards that either include the programmes of the Bank of England BoE, the European anticipate or go beyond requirements established by global or EU Banking Authority EBA, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation standards, whether in relation to capital, leverage and liquidity, FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB and resolvability and resolution or matters of conduct.
the South African Reserve Bank SARB.
These exercises are designed The FCA has retained an approach to enforcement based on credible to assess the resilience of banks to adverse economic or financial developments and ensure that they have robust, forward-looking capital deterrence that has seen significant growth in the size of regulatory fines.
The approach appears to be trending towards a more US model planning processes that account for the risks associated with their business profile.
Assessment by regulators is on both a quantitative and of enforcement including the use of Deferred Prosecution Agreements, vigorous enforcement of criminal and regulatory breaches, heightened qualitative basis, the latter focusing on the Groups data provision, stress testing capability and internal management processes and controls.
fines and proposed measures related to increased corporate criminal liability and the failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
Failure to meet requirements of regulatory stress tests, or the failure by regulators to approve the stress test results and capital plans of the The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk and on customer Group or its members subject to these exercises, could result in the outcomes and will continue to do so.
This has included a focus on the Group or certain of its members being required to enhance its capital design and operation of products, the behaviour of customers and the position or limit capital distributions, to any external holders of its equity operation of markets.
This may affect both the incidence of conduct or capital or within the Group.
In 2016 Barclays and certain of its costs and increase the cost of remediation.
The FCA has also subsidiaries completed stress testing pursuant to the requirements increasingly focused on individual accountability within firms, as of the BoE, EBA and SARB.
Barclays was not required to submit revised illustrated by the Senior Managers Regime and Certification Regime plans as a result of these tests.
Further details of Barclays capital detailed below.
requirements are set out below under Prudential Developments.
Supervision in the US Supervision in the EU The supervisory framework of Barclays within the US is set out below Financial regulation in the UK is to a significant degree shaped and in the section entitled Regulation in the US.
This provides the structure of the European Single Market, an important feature of which is the framework for the Supervision in South Africa regulation of authorised firms in the EU.
This framework is designed to In South Africa, BAGLs operations are supervised and regulated by the enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU South African Reserve Bank SARB, the Financial Services Board member state to conduct banking or investment business in another SAFSB as well as ancillary regulators including, amongst others, the member state through the establishment of branches or by the Financial Intelligence Centre.
SARB oversees the banking industry and provision of services on a cross-border basis without the need for local follows a risk-based approach to supervision, whilst the SAFSB oversees authorisation.
Barclays operations in Europe are authorised and non-banking financial services such as insurance and investment regulated by a combination of both home and host regulators.
The National Credit Regulator regulates consumer credit and impact of the UKs departure from the EU in this respect and, more the National Consumer Commission is responsible for other aspects of broadly, its impact on the UK domestic regulatory framework, is yet to consumer protection not regulated under the jurisdiction of the SAFSB.
See the Risk Factor entitled EU referendum, which is intended that regulatory responsibilities in South Africa will in future discusses the potential impact of the UKs departure from the EU in be divided between the SARB, which will be responsible for prudential more detail.
regulation, and the SAFSB, which will be responsible for matters of market conduct.
The proposed twin peaks legislation is currently going In the UK, the BoE has responsibility for monitoring the UK financial system as a whole.
The day-to-day regulation and supervision of the through the consultation phase of the Parliamentary process to enact the legislation.
Barclays and BAGLs operations in other African countries Group is divided between the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
are primarily supervised and regulated by the central banks in the jurisdictions where Barclays or BAGL as relevant has a banking In addition, the Financial Policy Committee FPC of the BoE has presence.
In some African countries, the conduct of Barclays and BAGLs influence on the prudential requirements that may be imposed on the operations and the non-banking activities are also regulated by financial banking system through its powers of direction and recommendation.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 229 Risk review Supervision and regulation Supervision in Asia Pacific In November 2016, the FSB published an update to its list of G-SIBs, reducing the G-SIB buffer that Barclays is required to hold from 2% to Barclays operations in Asia Pacific are supervised and regulated by a broad range of national regulators including: the Japan Financial Services 1.5%, effective from January 2018.
The additional G-SIB buffer began to be phased in from January 2016, from when G-SIBs were required to Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Monetary Authority of meet 25% of their designated buffer.
G-SIBs have also been required Singapore, the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange Board of India and the Peoples Bank of China, Chinas State Administration of to meet higher supervisory expectations for data aggregation capabilities since 1 January 2016.
Barclays is also subject to, among Foreign Exchange and the China Banking Regulatory Commission.
Such supervision and regulation extends to activities conducted through other buffers, a countercyclical capital buffer CCyB based on rates determined by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which branches of Barclays Bank PLC in the Asia Pacific region as well as subsidiaries of the Group.
These rates may vary in either direction for example, in July 2016, the FPC published a policy statement Global regulatory developments directing the PRA to reduce the UK CCyB rate from 0.5% to 0% of banks UK exposures with immediate effect, which was subsequently adopted Regulatory change continues to affect all large financial institutions.
Such change emanates from: global institutions such as the G20, FSB, by the PRA.
In November 2016, the FPC reaffirmed that it expects to maintain a UK CCyB rate at 0% until at least June 2017, absent any IOSCO and BCBS: the European Union regionally: and national regulators, especially in the UK and US.
2016 gave rise to significant material change in the economic outlook.
The systemic risk buffer is expected to be set by the PRA for the first time in early 2019. political changes in these markets, which have increased the level of regulatory and supervisory uncertainty faced by the Group and the The BCBS maintains a number of active workstreams that will affect the financial markets more broadly.
For more information, please see the Group.
In January 2016, the BCBS endorsed a new market risk Risk Factor entitled Business conditions, general economy and framework, including rules made as a result of its fundamental review geopolitical issues.
of the trading book, to take effect in 2019.
The BCBS also continues to Further changes to financial services regulations impacting Barclays may focus on the consistency of risk weighting of assets and on reducing the affect the Groups planned activities and could increase costs and variations of approaches to risk weightings between banks.
This includes contribute to adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
revisions to the standardised rules for credit risk, CVA volatility risk and operational risk.
The BCBS is also considering whether to limit the use of The programme of reform of the global regulatory framework previously internal models in certain areas for example, removing the Advanced agreed by G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has continued to be Measurement Approach for operational risk and to apply capital floors taken forward throughout 2016.
The G20 continues to monitor based on the standardised approaches.
The BCBS has also recently emerging risks and vulnerabilities in the financial system and has stated published final standards on the Basel III securitisation framework, that it will take action to address them if necessary.
interest rate risk in the banking book and minimum capital requirements The FSB has been designated by the G20 as the body responsible for for market risk.
The final standards for measuring and controlling large co-ordinating the delivery of the global reform programme in relation to exposures were published by the BCBS in April 2014 to take effect in the financial services industry.
It has focused particularly on the risks 2019.
In November 2016 the European Commission adopted a proposal posed by systemically important financial institutions.
In 2011, G20 commonly referred to as CRD V to begin the legislative process for Heads of Government adopted FSB proposals to reform the regulation of introducing these standards within the EU, with legislation expected to global systematically important financial institutions G-SIFIs, including be finalised in late 2017 or early 2018.
These proposals, if implemented global systematically important banks G-SIBs, such as Barclays.
in their current form would, among other things, overhaul existing rules relating to standardised and advanced market risk and the rules Regulatory developments in the financial services industry can broadly governing the inclusion of positions in the regulatory trading book.
be categorised as follows: a prudential developments: b recovery and The proposals would also enhance rules for counterparty credit risk, resolution developments, a key aspect of which is to ensure that G-SIFIs strengthen requirements relating to leverage and large exposures and are capable of being resolved without recourse to taxpayer support: c introduce a net stable funding ratio, requiring banks to ensure that they structural reform developments: d market infrastructure developments, hold reliable sources of funds in excess of their required amount of aimed at enhancing client protection, financial stability and market stable funding over a one year period.
CRD V also proposes to require integrity: and e conduct, culture and consumer protection that non-EU parent undertakings with two or more subsidiary firms developments.
established in the EU establish an intermediate parent undertaking, authorised and established in, and subject to the supervision of, an EU Regulation in the EU and the UK Member State.
This requirement would apply to non-EU groups that a Prudential developments have been identified as non-EU Global Systemically Important Institutions G-SIIs under CRD IV as amended and to groups with The Basel III capital and liquidity standards, defined by BCBS, are implemented in EU law through CRD IV.
The provisions of CRD IV either entities in the EU with total assets of at least 30bn.
If implemented as proposed, Barclays could be required to establish such a holding applied from, or had to be implemented in EU Member States by, 1 January 2014.
In addition, the PRA has expected Barclays, in common company in respect of its EU operations following the UKs departure from the EU.
with other major UK banks and building societies, to meet a 7% CET1 ratio at the level of the consolidated group since 1 January 2016.
In January 2017, the BCBS announced that its finalisation of reforms to G-SIBs are subject to a number of additional prudential requirements, Basel III had been delayed.
The BCBS is now expected to issue updated including the requirement to hold additional loss absorbing capacity and standards on the calculation of operational risk, the standardised additional capital buffers above the level required by Basel III standards.
framework for credit risk, restrictions on the use of internal models The level of G-SIB buffer is set by the FSB according to a banks systemic including the application of RWA floors based on standardised importance and can range from 1% to 3.5% of risk-weighted assets.
approaches, the leverage ratio including a leverage ratio buffer for The G-SIB buffer must be met with common equity.
G-SIBs and an output floor based on a standardised approach, later in 2017.
As these measures will require EU and domestic legislation to be implemented, it is not clear when they will become effective.
230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information IFRS9 will be implemented in the European Union from 1 January 2018.
The BRRD requires EU member states to establish pre-funded resolution funds of 1% of covered deposits to be built up by 31 December 2024.
In October 2016, the Basel Committee issued two documents on the treatment of accounting provisions in the regulatory framework, to take The UK government uses the Bank Levy to meet this ex ante funding requirements, as well as the ex post contributions that would be account of the future move to expected credit loss provisioning under IFRS and Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB standards.
One required were the ex-ante contributions not to cover costs or other expenses incurred by use of the resolution funds.
paper considered transitional arrangements to phase-in the immediate capital impact of the new provisioning standards, while the other Separately, Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, a deposit discussed more fundamental changes to the recognition of provisions in guarantee scheme established under the EU Deposit Guarantee regulatory capital and changes to the risk weighting framework.
The Schemes Directive and Investor Schemes Directive, is funded through European Commissions CRR2 proposal also proposed transitional fees levied on participant firms, including Barclays.
The regulatory capital impact of IFRS9 on the group will when an authorised firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims depend on the timing and final form of all these initiatives.
made against it by its customers because of its financial circumstances.
Most insured deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within b Recovery and Resolution developments the EEA are covered by the FSCS.
Most claims made in respect of An important component of the EU legislative framework is the 2014 investment business will also be protected claims if the business was Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD which establishes a carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm framework for the recovery and resolution of EU credit institutions and in question in another EEA member state.
Deposits covered by the FSCS investment firms.
The UK implemented the BRRD through the Financial are preferred in an insolvency of the bank.
Services Banking Reform Act 2013 the Banking Reform Act, which In the event that the HM Treasury significantly increases the Bank Levy amended the Banking Act 2009. applicable to Barclays, or the FSCS significantly increases the fees levied Pursuant to the Banking Act, UK resolution authorities are empowered to on Barclays by virtue of its participation in the FSCS, the associated costs intervene in and resolve a UK financial institution that is no longer viable.
to the Group may have a material impact on the Groups results.
Pursuant to these laws, the BoE in consultation with the PRA and HM Treasury as appropriate has several stabilisation options where a The BRRD also requires competent authorities to impose a Minimum banking institution is failing or likely to fail: i transfer some or all of the Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL on financial securities of the bank to a commercial purchaser: ii transfer some or all institutions to facilitate the effective exercise of the bail-in tool referred of the property, rights and liabilities of the bank to a bridge bank wholly to above.
The EU proposes that for G-SIBs, such as Barclays, MREL owned by the BoE or to a commercial purchaser: iii transfer the should be set in accordance with the FSB Total Loss Absorbing Capital impaired or problem assets to an asset management vehicle to allow TLAC standard, discussed further below.
them to be managed over time: iv cancel or reduce certain liabilities In November 2015 the FSB finalised its proposals to enhance the of the institution or convert liabilities to equity to absorb losses and loss-absorbing capacity of G-SIBs to ensure that there is sufficient recapitalise the institution and v in the case of a holding company, loss-absorbing and recapitalisation capacity available in resolution to transfer the banking institution into temporary public ownership.
In implement an orderly resolution which minimises the impact on financial addition, the BoE may apply for a court insolvency order in order to wind stability, ensures the continuity of critical functions and avoids exposing up or liquidate the institution or to put the institution into special taxpayers to losses.
To this end, the FSB has set a new minimum administration.
When exercising any of its stabilisation powers, the BoE requirement for total loss absorbing capacity TLAC.
The EU has must generally provide that shareholders bear first losses, followed by proposed to implement the TLAC standard via the MREL requirement creditors in accordance with the priority of their claims under normal and the European Commission has proposed amendments in its CRD V insolvency proceedings.
As the proposals remain in draft it is uncertain In order to enable the exercise of its stabilisation powers, the BoE may what the final requirements and timing will be.
The statement of policy impose a temporary stay on the rights of creditors to terminate, confirmed that the BoE will set MREL for UK G-SIBs as necessary to accelerate or close out contracts, and in some cases to override events implement the TLAC standard and that institution or group-specific of default or termination rights that might otherwise be invoked as a MREL requirements will depend on the preferred resolution strategy for result of a resolution action.
In addition, the Banking Act gives the BoE that institution or group.
The MREL will be phased in from 1 January the power to override, vary, or impose conditions or contractual 2019 and will be fully implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time obligations between a UK bank, its holding company and its group G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated in the UK, including Barclays, undertakings, in order to enable any transferee or successor bank to will be required to meet a MREL equivalent to the higher of i two times operate effectively after any of the resolution tools have been applied.
the sum of its Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements or ii the higher of two There is also power for HM Treasury to amend the law excluding times its leverage ratio or 6.75% of leverage exposures.
However, the provisions made by or under the Banking Act for the purpose of PRA will review the MREL calibration by the end of 2020, including enabling it to use the regime powers effectively, potentially with assessing the proposal for Pillar 2A recapitalisation which may drive a retrospective effect.
The Banking Act powers apply regardless of any different 1 January 2022 MREL requirement than currently proposed.
contractual restrictions and compensation that may be payable.
In July In addition, it is proposed that CET1 capital cannot be counted towards 2016 the PRA issued final rules on ensuring operational continuity in both MREL and the combined buffer requirement CBR, meaning that resolution.
The rules will apply from 1 January 2019 and will require the CBR will effectively be applied above both the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A banks to ensure that their operational structures facilitate effective requirements relating to own funds and MREL, such that a failure to recovery and resolution planning and the continued provision of maintain sufficient other MREL resources could result in a breach of functions critical to the economy in a resolution scenario.
In July 2016 the PRA issued final rules on ensuring operational continuity in resolution.
The rules will apply from 1 January 2019 and will require banks to ensure that their operational structures facilitate effective recovery and resolution planning and the continued provision of fucntions ciritcal to the economy in a resolution scenario.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 231 Risk review Supervision and regulation In October 2016, the BCBS also published its final standard on the In relation to ring-fencing in the UK, FSMA, as amended by the Banking Reform Act, requires, amongst other things, the separation of the retail prudential treatment of banks investments in TLAC instruments issued by other institutions, confirming that internationally active banks both and smaller business deposit-taking activities of UK banks in the UK and branches of UK banks in the European Economic Area EEA into a legally G-SIBs and non-G-SIBs must deduct their holdings of TLAC instruments that do not otherwise qualify as regulatory capital from their own Tier 2 distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity, which will not be permitted to undertake a range of activities so called capital.
Where the investing bank owns less than 10% of the issuing banks common shares, TLAC holdings are to be deducted from Tier 2 ring-fencing.
UK ring-fenced banks and large UK building societies will be required to hold CET1 capital in excess of that required under CRD IV capital only to the extent that they exceed 10% of the investing banks common equity or 5% for non-regulatory capital TLAC holdings : below from 2019.
This requirement will be applied by the PRA on an institution specific basis according to a framework set out by the FPC.
The this threshold, holdings would instead be subjected to risk-weighting.
G-SIBs may only apply risk-weighting to non-regulatory capital TLAC implications of these requirements on Barclays are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factor entitled Structural Reform.
holdings by the 5% threshold where those holdings are in the trading book and are sold within 20 business days.
At European level, the European Commission issued proposals In addition to the amendments proposed to align MREL for G-SIBs recommending the mandatory separation of proprietary trading and with the TLAC standard, in November 2016 the European Commission other high-risk trading activities from banking activities in January 2014. proposed a package of amendments to the BRRD, including to These proposals would apply to institutions that have been identified as harmonise the priority ranking of unsecured debt instruments under G-SIIs under CRD IV and envisage, amongst other things: i a ban on national insolvency proceedings and to enhance the stabilisation tools proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities: and ii by including a moratorium tool.
rules on the economic, legal, governance, and operational links between the trading entities and other banking group entities.
The legislative The PRA has made rules that require authorised firms to draw up proposal includes a derogation in respect of the separation of trading recovery plans and resolution packs, as required by the BRRD.
Recovery activities but not the ban on proprietary trading for Member States plans are designed to outline credible recovery actions that authorised which had adopted similar measures before the date of its publication.
firms could implement in the event of severe stress in order to restore The legislative proposal remains under consideration by the European their business to a stable and sustainable condition.
The resolution pack Parliament and the Council of the EU.
contains detailed information on the authorised firm in question which will be used to develop resolution strategies for that firm, assess its d Market Infrastructure developments current level of resolvability against the strategy, and to inform work on The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR has introduced identifying barriers to the implementation of operational resolution requirements designed to improve transparency and reduce the risks plans.
In the UK, Recovery and Resolution Planning RRP work is associated with the derivatives market, some of which are still to be fully considered part of continuing supervision.
EMIR requires that certain entities that enter into impediments to an orderly resolution of the Group or one or more of its derivative contracts: report such transactions: clear certain over the subsidiaries in considered as part of the BoEs and PRAs supervisory counter OTC transactions where mandated to do so: and implement strategy for each firm, and the PRA can require firms to make significant risk mitigation standards in respect of uncleared OTC trades.
The changes in order to enhance resolvability.
Barclays currently provides the obligation to clear derivatives only applies to certain counterparties and PRA with a Recovery Plan annually and with a Resolution Pack every specified types of derivative.
In October 2016 the European Commission other year.
adopted a delegated regulation relating to the exchange of collateral, one The BoEs preferred approach for the resolution of the Group is a bail-in of the risk mitigation techniques under EMIR.
Provisions relating to initial strategy with a single point of entry through Barclays PLC.
Under such margin will be phased in from 6 February 2017 until 1 September 2020. a strategy, Barclays PLCs subsidiaries would remain operational while Provisions relating to variation margin applied on a phased basis from Barclays PLCs eligible liabilities would be written down or converted to 4 February 2017.
EMIR has potential operational and financial impacts on equity in order to recapitalise the Group and allow for the continued the Group, including by imposing collateral requirements.
provision of services and operations throughout the resolution.
This CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying higher capital strategy relies on Barclays PLC having issued sufficient loss-absorbing requirements for bilateral, uncleared over-the-counter derivative trades.
capacity to effect bail-in and recapitalise the Group should the need Lower capital requirements for cleared derivatives trades are only arise.
As a result the Group is focusing on transitioning eligible loss available if the central counterparty through which the trade is cleared is absorbing capital from subsidiary level to Barclays PLC level.
recognised as a qualifying central counterparty QCCP which has been authorised or recognised under EMIR in accordance with binding c Structural reform developments technical standards.
Higher capital requirements may apply to the Recent developments in banking law and regulation in the UK have Group following the UKs departure from the EU if UK CCPs are not included legislation designed to ring-fence the retail and smaller regarded as QCCPs.
business deposit-taking businesses of large banks.
The Banking Reform The amended Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Markets in Act put in place a framework for this ring-fencing and secondary legislation passed in 2014 elaborated on the operation and application of Financial Instruments Regulation collectively referred to as MiFID II is expected to apply from 3 January 2018.
MiFID II will affect many of the the ring-fence.
Ring-fencing rules have been published by the PRA further determining how ring-fenced banks will be permitted to operate.
investment markets in which the Group operates, the instruments in which it trades and the way it transacts with market counterparties and Further rules published by the FCA set out the disclosures that non-ring-fenced banks are required to make to prospective customers other customers.
Changes introduced by MiFID II include: the introduction of a new type of trading venue the organised trading that are individuals.
facility, capturing non-equity trading that falls outside the current regime: and the expansion of the concept of, and requirements applicable to, firms which systematically trade against proprietary capital systematic internalisers.
232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information MiFID II also strengthens investor protections and imposes new curbs on In August 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority CMA published the results of its market investigation into retail banking, high frequency and commodity trading.
It also increases pre-and post-trade transparency and introduces a new regime for third country identifying features of the market that were having an adverse effect on competition and setting out a number of measures to remedy the firms.
MiFID II also includes new requirements relating to nondiscriminatory access to trading venues, central counterparties and shortcomings.
One of these remedies requires Barclays, among other banks, to help establish and fund an entity to govern open access to benchmarks, and harmonised supervisory powers and sanctions across the EU.
information about bank services, provision and service quality.
Barclays expects to be required to make public information available through The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into force in June 2016, with the open application programming interfaces APIs through the course of majority of provisions intended to apply from January 2018.
This 2017, with transactional information being available through an open API Regulation applies to the administration, contribution of data to and use by January 2018 to align with the PSD2 timeframes.
of benchmarks within the EU.
Financial institutions within the EU will be prohibited from using benchmarks unless their administrators are EU regulation and governments have been increasingly focused on cyber authorised, registered or otherwise recognised in the EU.
This may security risk management for banking organisations and have proposed impact the ability of Barclays to use certain benchmarks.
laws that would impose a variety of requirements on regulated Barclays entities.
These requirements include minimum required security In 2015 the European Commission launched work on establishing a measures, enhanced reporting requirements and a variety of other cyber Capital Markets Union CMU within the EU.
The CMU aims to increase and information risk governance measures.
When implemented, the the availability of non-bank financing in the EU, deepen the single proposals may increase technology and compliance costs for Barclays.
market for financial services and promote growth and financial stability.
The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new form of corporate criminal The Commissions work on the CMU includes the development of a regulatory framework in order to enhance efficiencies in the cross-border liability focussed on a companys failure to prevent bribery on its behalf.
The legislation has broad application and in certain circumstances may environment for capital markets, as well as a review of existing legislation to determine instances in which such legislation should be modified.
have extraterritorial impact as to entities, persons or activities located outside the UK, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries.
In practice, This work is likely to continue through 2017 and beyond and may result in changes to the EU regulatory framework in which the Group operates.
the legislation requires Barclays to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery which, due to the extraterritorial nature of the status, makes this e Conduct, Culture and Consumer Protection developments both complex and costly.
On 7 March 2016 the PRA and FCA introduced measures to increase the individual accountability of senior managers and other covered Regulation in the US Supervision in the US individuals in the banking sector.
The new regime comprises the Senior Managers Regime, which applies to a limited number of individuals with Barclays US activities and operations are subject to umbrella supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB, as well senior management responsibilities within a firm, the Certification Regime, which is intended to assess and monitor the fitness and as additional supervision, requirements and restrictions imposed by other federal and state regulators.
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and proprietary of a wider range of employees who could pose a risk of significant harm to the firm or its customers and conduct rules that their US branches and subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework involving numerous statutes, rules and individuals subject to either regime must comply with.
From March 2017, the conduct rules will apply more widely to other staff of firms within regulations, including the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 BHC Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 scope of the regime.
and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of The Financial Services Act 2010, amongst other things, requires the UK 2010 DFA.
In some cases, US requirements may impose restrictions on regulators to make rules about remuneration and to require regulated Barclays global activities in addition to its activities in the US.
firms to have a remuneration policy that is consistent with effective risk management.
The Banking Act also amended FSMA to allow the FCA to In July 2016, Barclays established a US intermediate holding company, Barclays US LLC BUSL, which holds substantially all of Barclays US make rules requiring firms to operate a collective consumer redress scheme to deal with cases of widespread failure by regulated firms to subsidiaries and assets including Barclays Capital Inc. and Barclays Bank Delaware, other than Barclays US branches and certain other assets meet regulatory requirements, that may have created consumer detriment.
BUSL, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC are regulated as bank holding companies BHCs by the FRB, which Barclays has to comply with national data protection laws, governing the exercises umbrella supervisory authority over and imposes a wide variety collection, use, and disclosure of personal data, in a majority of the of requirements and restrictions on Barclays US operations, including countries in which it operates.
From 25 May 2018 data protection laws with respect to safety and soundness.
As Barclays top-tier US bank throughout the EU will be replaced by a single General Data Protection holding company, BUSL is or will become subject to the enhanced Regulation GDPR : the UK government has confirmed the UK will adopt prudential supervision requirements applicable to US bank holding and apply the GDPR from May 2018.
The impact across Barclays will be companies of comparable size, including: i regulatory capital significant, affecting not only Group entities operating and processing requirements and leverage limits: ii mandatory annual supervisory and personal data within the EU but also those outside the EU offering annual and semi-annual company-run stress testing of capital levels, goods or services to, or monitoring individuals within the EU.
The GDPR and annual submission of a capital plan in connection with the FRBs contains significant penalties for data protection breaches and nonannual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCAR, resulting in compliance, up to 4% of Group global turnover.
an FRB objection or non-objection to the capital plan: iii FRB nonobjection to any proposed capital distributions by BUSL, including to A number of recent developments have indicated a clear political and regulatory desire to make customer transactional account information Barclays Bank PLC: iv additional substantive liquidity requirements, including requirements to conduct monthly internal liquidity stress tests more easily accessible to customers and parties providing services to them.
One such example is the revised Payment Services Directive for BUSL and also, separately, for Barclays Bank PLCs US branch network, and to maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets: v PSD2, which came into force on 12 January 2016 and must be implemented by 13 January 2018.
Shortly after the finalisation of PSD2, other liquidity risk management requirements, including compliance with liquidity risk management standards established by the FRB, and the Open Banking Working Group, a body established at the request of HM Treasury, issued a report outlining how an ecosystem allowing the maintenance of an independent function to review and evaluate regularly the adequacy and effectiveness of the liquidity risk sharing of bank and customer information could be established, operated and governed.
The resulting Open Banking Standard is management practices of Barclays combined US operations: and vi overall risk management requirements, including a US risk committee intended to allow for the provision of access to public data and secure access to private data.
and a US chief risk officer.
BUSL will become subject to the FRBs capital planning requirements in 2017. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 233 Risk review Supervision and regulation The BHC Act generally restricts the activities of BHCs to banking and The Volcker Rule, a provision of the DFA that came into effect in July 2015, prohibits banking entities from undertaking certain proprietary activities closely related to banking.
In order to engage in a broader range of activities, Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have also elected to be trading activities and limits the sponsorship of, and investment in, private equity funds including non-conforming real estate and credit treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act.
Financial holding companies may engage in a range of financial and related funds and hedge funds, in each case broadly defined, by such entities.
These restrictions are subject to certain exemptions, including for activities, directly or through subsidiaries, including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities.
In order to maintain its status as a underwriting, market-making and risk-mitigating hedging activities as well as for transactions and investments occurring solely outside of the financial holding company, a financial holding company is required to meet or exceed certain regulatory capital ratios and other requirements US.
As required by the rule, Barclays has developed and implemented an extensive compliance and monitoring programme both inside and and be deemed well capitalised and well managed.
In addition, the financial holding company status requires Barclays Bank Delaware to outside of the US addressing proprietary trading and covered fund activities.
These efforts are expected to continue as the FRB and the maintain at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 CRA.
Entities ceasing to meet any of these other relevant US regulatory agencies further implement and monitor these requirements and Barclays may incur additional costs in relation to requirements are required to enter into an agreement to correct the deficiency and are allotted a period of time in which to restore capital such efforts.
The Volcker Rule is highly complex and its full impact will not be known with certainty until market practices and structures levels or management ratings.
The non-compliant entity will be subject to limitations on activities during any period of non-compliance.
If the further develop under it.
capital level or rating is not restored, the non-compliant entity would be The Bank Secrecy Act, USA PATRIOT Act 2001 and regulations subjected to increasingly stringent penalties and could ultimately be thereunder contain numerous anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist closed or required to cease certain activities in the US.
financing requirements for financial institutions.
In addition, Barclays is In addition to general oversight by the FRB, certain of Barclays branches subject to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits certain and subsidiaries are regulated by additional authorities based on the payments to foreign officials, as well as rules and regulations relating to location or activities of those entities.
The deposits of Barclays Bank economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the US Delaware are insured by the FDIC, which also exercises supervisory Office of Foreign Assets Control which restrict certain business activities authority over the banks operations.
Under the Federal Deposit with certain individuals, entities, groups, countries and territories.
In Insurance Act Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL are required some cases, these regulations may impact entities, persons or activities to act as a source of financial strength for Barclays Bank Delaware.
This located outside the US, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries.
The could, among other things, require these entities to inject capital into enforcement of these regulations has been a major focus of US Barclays Bank Delaware if it fails to meet applicable regulatory capital government policy relating to financial institutions in recent years, and requirements.
The New York and Florida branches of Barclays Bank PLC failure of a financial institution to ensure compliance could have serious are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by, as applicable, legal, financial and reputational consequences for the institution.
the New York State Department of Financial Services NYSDFS and the The US regulators have enhanced their focus on the promotion of cultural Florida Office of Financial Regulation.
Barclays Bank Delaware, a values as a key area for banks.
The regulators view the responsibility for Delaware chartered commercial bank, is subject to supervision and reforming culture as primarily sitting with the industry.
In this regard regulation by the Delaware Office of the State Bank Commissioner.
regulators have increasingly focused on areas such as incentive Barclays US securities broker dealer, investment advisory and compensation, promotion processes and measurements of success.
investment banking operations are also subject to ongoing supervision Title II of the DFA established the Orderly Liquidation Authority, a new and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, the regime for orderly liquidation of systemically important financial Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA and other government institutions, which could apply to BUSL.
Specifically, when a systemically agencies and self-regulatory organisations SROs as part of a important financial institution is in default or danger of default, the FDIC comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the securities may be appointed receiver under the orderly liquidation authority and commodities business under US federal and state securities laws.
instead of the institution being resolved through a voluntary or Similarly, Barclays US commodity futures, commodity options and involuntary proceeding under the US Bankruptcy Code.
In addition, the swaps-related operations are subject to ongoing supervision and licensing authorities of each US branch of Barclays Bank PLC and of regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC, Barclays Bank Delaware have the authority, in certain circumstances, the National Futures Association and other SROs.
to take possession of the business and property of the applicable Barclays entity they license or to revoke or suspend such licence.
Such Barclays US retail and consumer activities, including the US credit card circumstances include violations of law, unsafe business practices operations of Barclays Bank Delaware, are subject to direct supervision and insolvency.
and regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB, which was established by the DFA.
The CFPB has the authority to Under the DFA, Barclays must submit annually to the FRB and the FDIC examine and take enforcement action related to compliance with federal a plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material laws and regulations regarding the provision of consumer financial financial distress or failure.
As required, Barclays submitted its most services and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and recent annual US resolution plan to the US regulators on 1 July 2015. practices.
Barclays next submission will be due on 1 July 2017 in view of the FDICs and FRBs joint determination that certain foreign banking organisations 2016 annual resolution plan filing requirements would be satisfied by the 2017 submission.
In addition, on 3 February 2017, the President of the US issued an executive order identifying core principles for the administrations financial services regulatory policy and directing the US Secretary of Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other US financial regulatory agencies, to evaluate and issue a report within 120 days examining how the current regulatory framework promotes or inhibits the principles and what actions have been and are being taken to promote the principles.
234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Regulatory developments in the US b Prudential developments The FRB has proposed a number of prudential rules to implement DFA The DFAs ultimate impact on the Group continues to remain uncertain and some rules are not yet fully implemented.
In addition, market requirements, as well as its own versions of a number of international regulatory standards, including Basel large exposure rules or single practices and structures may change in response to the requirements of the DFA in ways that are difficult to predict but that could impact counterparty credit limits, proposed in March 2016 and temporary resolution stays for qualified financial contracts proposed in May 2016.
Nonetheless, certain proposed or final regulations are particularly likely to have a significant effect on the Group, including: In December 2016, the FRB issued final regulations for TLAC which will apply to BUSL.
The FRBs final TLAC rule, while generally following the a Regulation of derivatives markets FSB termsheet, contains a number of provisions that are more restrictive.
Among the changes mandated by the DFA is a requirement that many For example, the FRBs TLAC rule includes provisions that require BUSL types of derivatives that used to be traded in the over the counter the Barclays IHC to have i a specified outstanding amount of eligible markets be traded on an exchange or swap execution facility and long-term debt, ii a specified outstanding amount of TLAC consisting centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house.
The DFA also of common and preferred equity regulatory capital plus long term debt, mandates that swaps and security-based swaps be reported and that and iii a specified common equity buffer.
In addition, the FRBs TLAC certain of that information be made available to the public on an rule would prohibit BUSL, for so long as the Groups overall resolution anonymous basis.
In addition, certain participants in these markets are plan treats BUSL as a non-resolution entity, from issuing TLAC to entities required to register with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap other than the Group and its non-US subsidiaries.
participants and or, following the compliance date for relevant SEC rules, with the SEC as security-based swap dealers or major securityIn addition, the FRB has issued proposed regulations for net stable funding ratio NSFR implementation.
The NSFR is one of the two Basel based swap participants.
Such registrants would be subject to CFTC and SEC regulation and oversight.
SEC finalised the rules governing security III-based liquidity measures, along with the LCR, and as proposed by the FRB, would apply to US bank holding companies with more than based swap dealer registration in 2015 but clarified that registration timing is contingent upon the finalisation of certain additional rules $250bn in total assets or $10bn or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposures, including BUSL, and consolidated depositary institution under Title VII of DFA, several of which are still pending.
Additional SEC rules governing security-based swap transactions, including securitysubsidiaries of such banking organisations with more than $10bn in assets, including Barclays Bank Delaware.
Under the proposed rule, such based swap reporting, will become effective after the security-based swap dealer registration date.
Barclays Bank PLC has provisionally entities would be required to maintain a minimum level of available stable funding that equals or exceeds the amount of required stable registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer.
Entities required to register are subject to business conduct and record-keeping requirements and funding over a one-year period.
The proposal provides for an effective date of 1 January 2018, subject to finalisation of the rules.
will be subject to capital and margin requirements in connection with transactions with certain US and non-US counterparties.
Barclays Bank If finally adopted as currently proposed, the NSFR requirement could PLC is also prudentially regulated as a swaps dealer so is subject to the impact Barclays liquidity and increase the funding and compliance costs FRB swaps rules.
The CFTC has approved certain comparability determinations that would permit substituted compliance with non-US regulatory regimes for c Cybersecurity certain swap regulations related to business conduct requirements.
US regulators, including the FRB, FDIC and NYSDFS, have been The CFTC had previously stated that its transaction-level rules such as increasingly focused on cybersecurity risk management for banking margin and documentation requirements would apply to certain organisations and have issued proposals for, or requested comment on, transactions entered into between a non-US swap dealer and a non-US regulations that would impose a variety of new requirements on counterparty but has delayed the compliance date for this requirement regulated Barclays entities.
These requirements include, among others, a number of times.
The most recent extension of this relief expires on the adoption of cybersecurity policies and procedures meeting specified 30 September 2017.
In addition, the CFTC has proposed to apply criteria, a set of minimum required security measures, new reporting and transaction-level rules to certain cross-border transactions with a US compliance certification requirements and a variety of other cyber and nexus.
It is unclear whether further changes will be made to these information risk governance measures.
If finally implemented, the proposed rules or when they will become effective.
proposals may increase technology and compliance costs for Barclays.
In this regard, the US prudential regulators and the CFTC have imposed rules requiring the exchange of collateral in respect of OTC derivative transactions, in a similar manner to the European Commission as set out above in the section entitled Market Infrastructure Developments.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 235 Risk review Supervision and regulation Structural Reform and will be separate from Barclays Bank PLC.
The Barclays UK division of Overview Barclays Bank PLC will be transferred to the RFB.
Barclays Bank PLC will Barclays announced in March 2016 that it will be organised as two continue to house the Barclays International division.
The two banking clearly defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays International, to entities, RFB containing Barclays UK and Barclays Bank PLC containing simplify the Group and prepare early for UK ring-fencing requirements.
Barclays International will operate alongside one another, together with the Group Service Company, Barclays Services Limited BSerL, as Barclays intends to achieve ring-fencing separation by setting up an subsidiaries of Barclays PLC within the Barclays Group.
operational legal entity, which will constitute the ring-fenced bank RFB a Barclays PLC Future State Legal Entity Ring-Fenced Bank Barclays Services Limited Barclays Bank PLC Divisional Constructs Barclays UK Group Service Company Barclays International UK consumer and business bank Provides critical services to Barclays Diversified transatlantic wholesale differentiated by scale and digital UK and Barclays International to and consumer bank innovation deliver operational continuity In order to achieve this target-state structure, Barclays will need to 2017: undertake a number of legal transfers, including the transfer of Various legal entities connected with the future Barclays UK customer and non-customer assets, liabilities and contractual business will be transferred to be subsidiaries of the entity which arrangements.
Barclays intends to use a court approved statutory ring-fence transfer Certain assets, liabilities, and other items connected with service scheme process as defined in Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 provision will be transferred from Barclays Bank PLC to BSerL to Part VII section 106B RFTS to conduct the majority of these transfers establish the entity as the Group Service Company.
to the RFB, as well as certain other items to BSerL.
In addition to the RFTS court process will be initiated during Q4 2017 with the transfers conducted through the RFTS, certain items will be transferred submission of an application to the high court followed by the via alternative arrangements.
Between now and 1 January 2019, Barclays will complete the transition 2018: from the former divisional constructs to the legal entity constructs described above.
Final court hearing will be held in respect of the RFTS.
Barclays UK businesses and related items will be transferred to the Timeline RFB through the RFTS and via alternative arrangements, taking Barclays Structural Reform timeline, including progress to date and effect in H1 2018. indicative future milestones is as follows: Additional items connected with service provision will be transferred 2015: to BSerL, also via the RFTS in H1 2018.
The legal entity which will become the RFB was incorporated.
Immediately following completion of the RFTS, the equity ownership in the RFB will be transferred, establishing the RFB as a 2016: direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC, alongside Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays US intermediate holding company was established.
RFB banking authorisation application was submitted to the regulators.
BSerL, which will become the Group Service Company, was transferred to be a direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC.
Note a Illustration of Barclays business divisions in preparation for regulatory ring-fencing.
Plans are subject to internal and regulatory approvals and may change.
236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Financial review A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key performance indicators, and the contribution of each of our businesses to the overall performance of the Group.
Financial review Page Key performance indicators 238 Consolidated summary income statement 240 Income statement commentary 241 Consolidated summary balance sheet 242 Balance sheet commentary 243 Analysis of results by business 244 Non-IFRS performance measures 259 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 237
