Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management An overview of Barclays approach to risk management Page Barclays risk management strategy Introduction 146 Enterprise Risk Management Framework 146 Principal Risks 146 Risk Appetite for the Principals Risks 146 Roles and responsibilities in the management of risk 146 Barclays Risk Culture 148 Credit risk management Overview 149 Organisation and structure 149 Roles and responsibilities 150 Credit risk mitigation 150 Market risk management Overview 151 Organisation and structure 151 Roles and responsibilities 151 Treasury and capital risk management Overview 152 Organisation and structure 152 Liquidity risk 153 Capital risk 154 Interest rate risk in the banking book 156 Operational risk management Overview 157 Organisation and structure 157 Roles and responsibilities 158 Model risk management Overview 159 Organisation and structure 159 Roles and responsibilities 159 Conduct risk management Overview 160 Organisation and structure 160 Roles and responsibilities 160 Reputation risk management Overview 161 Organisation and structure 161 Roles and responsibilities 161 Legal risk management Overview 162 Organisation and structure 162 Roles and responsibilities 162 For a more detailed breakdown on our risk review and risk management contents please see pages 134 to 135.
More detailed information on how Barclays manages these risks can be found in Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 145 Risk review Risk management Barclays risk management strategy amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support Introduction its assets Barclays engages in activities which entail risk taking, every day, Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or throughout its business.
This section introduces these risks, and outlines composition of capital to support its normal business activities and key governance arrangements for managing them.
These include roles to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating and responsibilities, frameworks, policies and standards, assurance and environments or stressed conditions both actual and as defined for lessons learned processes.
The Groups approach to fostering a strong internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the Risk Culture is also described.
risk from the firms pension plans Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is Enterprise Risk Management Framework exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and ERMF liabilities.
The Group has clear risk management objectives and a strategy to deliver them through core risk management processes.
The ERMF sets Non-Financial Principal Risks: the strategic direction by defining clear standards, objectives and Operational risk: The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed responsibilities for all areas of Barclays.
It supports the CEO and CRO in processes or systems, human factors or due to external events for embedding effective risk management and a strong Risk Culture.
example fraud where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
The ERMF sets out: Model risk: The risk of the potential adverse consequences from Principal Risks faced by the Group financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused Risk Appetite requirements model outputs and reports.
Roles and responsibilities for risk management Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, investment or Risk Committee structure.
event will reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
A revised ERMF was approved by the Board in December 2016.
This includes a revised risk taxonomy comprising eight Principal Risks.
Credit, Conduct risk: The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market market, funding, operational and conduct risks have been aligned to this integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of new taxonomy and the management of these risks has not materially financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent changed.
Model risk, reputation risk and legal risk are newly classified as misconduct.
Principal Risks in the latest version of the ERMF, reflecting the Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines heightened importance of these risk types in the current environment.
In from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including 2016, Model risk was managed in accordance with dedicated policies regulatory or contractual requirements.
These policies supplemented the key risk control frameworks underlying the financial risk types and applied to all Risk Appetite for the Principal Risks businesses and functions in which financial risks were incurred or managed.
Reputation risk was considered as part of conduct risk and Risk Appetite is defined as the level of risk which the firm is prepared to legal risk was included as a sub-risk type under operational risk.
In this accept in the conduct of its activities.
The Risk Appetite of the firm: Annual Report, the Risk Management sections page 145 to 162 follow specifies the level of risk we are willing to take and why, to enable the new Principal Risk taxonomy of eight risks, reflecting our current specific risk taking activities approach to risk management.
The Risk Performance sections pages considers all Principal Risks individually and, where appropriate, in 164 to 228 follow the Principal Risk taxonomy of five risks which aggregate prevailed during 2016.
Information on reputation risk performance in 2016 is included as part of the Conduct Risk section.
Information on communicates the acceptable level of risk for different risk types: this legal risk performance in 2016 can be found in the Material Existing and may be expressed in financial or non-financial terms, and is measured Emerging Risks section page 136 to 144, the Supervision and and effectively monitored Regulation section page 229 to 236 and Note 29 to the Financial describes agreed parameters for the firms performance under varying Statements page 333 to 338.
The definition of the Three Lines of levels of financial stress with respect to profitability Defence and associated responsibilities were also revised.
The ERMF also is considered in key decision-making processes, including business contains a revised governance structure, including new Group and planning, mergers and acquisitions, new product approvals and Business Risk committees, with representation from the first and second business change initiatives.
Risk Appetite is approved and disseminated across legal entities and businesses, including by use of Mandate and Scale limits to enable and Principal Risks control specific activities that have material concentration risk The ERMF identifies Principal Risks and sets out responsibilities and risk implications for the firm.
These limits also help reduce the likelihood and management standards.
Note that Legal, Reputation and Model risks are size of one-off losses.
The Risk Appetite must be formally reviewed on at Principal Risks from January 2017 following Board approval in December least an annual frequency in conjunction with the Medium Term 2016.
Planning MTP process and approved by the Board.
Financial Principal Risks: Roles and responsibilities in the management Credit risk: The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully honour of risk the Three Lines of Defence their obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely payment All colleagues have a responsibility to contribute to the risk management of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables of the Group.
These responsibilities are set out in the Three Lines of Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in Defence.
In 2016 these definitions were simplified.
Regardless of their the value of the firms assets and liabilities from fluctuation in market function, all teams who manage processes in the firm are responsible for variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, designing, implementing, remediating, monitoring and testing the equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and controls for those processes.
asset correlations Treasury and capital risk: This comprises: First Line of Defence: The First Line comprises all employees engaged in the revenue Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual generating and client facing areas of the firm and all associated support or contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate 146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information functions, including Finance, Treasury, Technology and Operations, The Second Line may not establish limits for all First Line activities, Human Resources etc.
Employees in the first line are responsible for: especially those related to Operational Risk.
The controls for these will ordinarily be established by Controls Officers operating within the identifying all the risks in the activities in which they are engaged, and Controls Framework of the firm, under the oversight of the Second Line.
developing appropriate policies, standards and controls to govern their activities The Second Line can also undertake certain additional activities if, in the judgement of the Group CRO, this will reduce the firms exposure to operating within any and all limits which the Risk and Compliance risk.
functions establish in connection with the Risk Appetite of the firm escalating risk events to senior managers and Risk and Compliance.
Third Line of Defence: Internal controls are critical to running a cost-effective and stable Employees of Internal Audit comprise the Third Line of Defence.
They provide independent assurance to the Board and Executive business.
To ensure these controls remain strong, sustainable, and efficient the new strategic position of Chief Controls Officer has been Management over the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and evolving risks.
The Chief Controls Office will help to maintain and enhance an effective and consistent control framework across the organisation.
The Legal department does not sit in any of the three lines, but supports them all.
The Legal department is, however, subject to oversight from The First Line must establish their own policies and controls subject to Risk and Compliance, with respect to Operational and Conduct risks.
the Controls Framework of the firm, particularly with respect to operational activities, and require their colleagues to manage all controls Roles and responsibilities in the management to specified tolerances.
These control-related activities are also considered First Line and are permitted so long as they are within any of risk risk committees applicable limits established by Risk or Compliance.
All activities in the Business Risk Committees consider risk matters relevant to their first line are subject to oversight from the relevant parts of the second business, and escalate as required to the Group Risk Committee GRC, and third lines.
whose Chairman in turn escalates to Board Committees and the Board.
There are five Board-level fora which review and monitor risk across the Second Line of Defence: Group.
These are: The main Board, the Board Risk Committee, the Board Employees of Risk and Compliance comprise the Second Line of Audit Committee, the Board Reputation Committee and the Board Defence.
The role of the Second Line is to establish the limits, rules and Remuneration Committee.
constraints under which first line activities shall be performed, The Chairman of each Committee prepares a statement each year on consistent with the Risk Appetite of the firm, and to monitor the the committees activities, which is included in this report from page 54 performance of the First Line against these limits and constraints.
Board Committees Board Board Board Board Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Reputation Remuneration Committee Committee Management Level Group ExCo Group Risk Committees Remuneration Committees Forums Review Panel BusinessLevel Business Risk Committees Committees Forums The Board The BRC also considers the Groups risk appetite statement for One of the Boards Board of Directors of Barclays PLC responsibilities is operational risk and evaluates the Groups operational risk profile and the approval of Risk Appetite see the Risk Management and Strategy operational risk monitoring.
section on page 146, which is the level of risk the Group chooses to The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk take in pursuit of its business objectives.
The Group CRO GCRO methodologies, the effectiveness of the risk management framework, regularly presents a report to the Board summarising developments in and the Groups risk profile, including the key issues affecting each the risk environment and performance trends in the key portfolios.
The business portfolio and forward risk trends.
The Committee also Board is also responsible for the ERMF.
It oversees the management of commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are the most significant risks through regular review of risk exposures.
presented by the CRO or senior risk managers in the businesses.
Executive management responsibilities relating to this are set out in the ERMF.
The Board Reputation Committee RepCo The Board Risk Committee BRC The RepCo reviews managements recommendations on conduct and reputational risk and the effectiveness of the processes by which the The BRC monitors the Groups risk profile against the agreed financial Group identifies and manages these risks.
It also reviews and monitors the appetite.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, the effectiveness of Barclays Citizenship strategy, including the management actions taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the BRC is of Barclays economic, social and environmental contribution.
After each meeting, the Chairman of the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
All members are In addition, the Board Audit and Board Remuneration Committees independent executive directors.
The Group Finance Director GFD and receive regular risk reports to assist them in the undertaking of their the GCRO attend each meeting as a matter of course.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 147 Risk review Risk management Barclays risk management strategy The Board Audit Committee BAC Treasury and Capital and a Head of Model Risk Management.
The BAC receives regular reports on the effectiveness of internal control systems, quarterly reports on material control issues of significance, and Integrity quarterly papers on accounting judgements including impairment.
It The Being Barclays global induction supports new colleagues in also receives a quarterly review of the adequacy of impairment understanding how risk management culture and practices support how allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, the Group does business and the link to Barclays values.
The Leadership the business environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and Curriculum covers building, sustaining and supporting a trustworthy the performance trends of peer banks.
The Chairman of the BAC also organisation and is offered to colleagues globally.
The continued promotion and reinforcement of Barclays Values, as well as the Barclays Way was reflected in the near-perfect rate of completion The Board Remuneration Committee RemCo of related training by employees.
Messages and communications from The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk management performance the Chief Risk Officer emphasise the importance of early escalation of from the BRC, regular updates on the risk profile and proposals on an risk issues.
ex-ante and ex-post risk adjustments to variable remuneration.
These inputs are considered in the setting of performance incentives.
Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management experience of the Directors of the Board are presented in the Board of Directors section on pages 51 to 52.
The terms of reference and additional details on membership and activities for each of the principal Board Committees are available from the Corporate Governance section at home.
Barclays Risk Culture Barclays defines Risk Culture as norms, attitudes and behaviours related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management.
At Barclays this is reflected in how we identify, escalate and manage risk matters.
Our Code of Conduct the Barclays Way Globally, all colleagues must attest to the Barclays Way, our Code of Conduct, and all frameworks, policies and standards applicable to their roles.
The Code of Conduct outlines the Purpose and Values which govern our Barclays Way of working across our business globally.
It constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of colleagues working relationships, specifically but not exclusively with other Barclays employees, customers and clients, governments and regulators, business partners, suppliers, competitors and the broader community.
Definition of Risk Culture and its determinants We review our culture through the lens of four determinants, associated with desired outcomes: Management and governance: Consistent tone from the top: responsibilities are clear to enable identification and challenge Motivation and incentives: The right behaviours are rewarded and modelled Competence and effectiveness: Colleagues are enabled to identify, coordinate, escalate and address risk and control matters Integrity: Colleagues are willing to meet their risk management responsibilities: colleagues escalate issues on a timely basis.
Management and governance Leaders must demonstrate through their everyday behaviours the importance of strong risk management and ensure that their teams have sufficient resource and capability to manage the risk environment.
The simplification of the Three Lines of Defence, as well as the reorganisation of business and risk committees with First and Second Lines of defence representation, promote ownership and accountabilities for risk management.
Motivation and incentives Barclays seeks to ensure that compensation and promotion decisions take account of risk behaviours.
Management of risk and control is assessed as part of the annual performance appraisal process for all colleagues globally.
Positive risk management behaviours will be rewarded and considered as part of promotion decisions, particularly to Managing Director.
Competence and effectiveness A risk capability scorecard was developed for the Board Risk Committee to monitor and measure capability, and to identify any areas for improvement.
Barclays has also appointed a Chief Risk Officer for 148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk r Risk re evie view w Risk management Credit risk management Credit risk management objectives are to: Credit risk maintain a framework of controls to ensure credit risk taking is based on sound credit risk management principles The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across clients, customers or counterparties, including the Group and within each separate business, from the level of sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to individual facilities up to the total portfolio the firm, including the whole and timely control and plan credit risk taking in line with external stakeholder expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations payment of principal, interest, collateral and monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls other receivables.
ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.
More information of the reporting of credit risk can be found in Overview Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
The granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income and, as a Principal Risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources to its control.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from Organisation and structure wholesale and retail loans and advances together with the counterparty Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed separately to reflect the credit risk arising from derivative contracts with clients.
Other sources of differing nature of the assets: wholesale balances tend to be larger in credit risk arise from trading activities, including: debt securities, value and are managed on an individual basis, while retail balances are settlement balances with market counterparties: available for sale assets: larger in number but smaller in value and are, therefore, managed on a and reverse repurchase agreements.
Credit risk management responsibilities have been structured so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, while ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure and strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the relevant Business CRO who, in turn, reports to the Group CRO.
Board oversight and flow of risk related information Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee Group Risk Committee Business Unit Risk Committees Wholesale & Retail Credit Risk Committees Wholesale & Retail Credit Risk Committees monitors the wholesale and retail credit risk profiles against plan and agrees any required actions reviews key retail and wholesale risk issues reviews credit risk policies and frameworks monitors risk appetite consumption Key Credit Portfolio Mandate & Scale Limits home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 149 Risk review Risk management Credit risk management Roles and responsibilities Credit risk mitigation The responsibilities of the credit risk management teams in the The Group employs a range of techniques and strategies to actively businesses, the sanctioning team and other shared services include: mitigate the counterparty credit risks.
These can broadly be divided into sanctioning new credit agreements principally wholesale : setting three types: policies for approval of transactions principally retail : setting risk netting and set-off appetite: monitoring risk against limits and other parameters: collateral maintaining robust processes, data gathering, quality, storage and risk transfer.
reporting methods for effective credit risk management: performing effective turnaround and workout scenarios for wholesale portfolios via Netting and set-off dedicated restructuring and recoveries teams: maintaining robust In most jurisdictions in which the Group operates, credit risk exposures collections and recovery processes units for retail portfolios: and review can be reduced by applying netting and set-off.
In exposure terms, this and validation of credit risk measurement models.
credit risk mitigation technique has the largest overall impact on net For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval is undertaken by exposure to derivative transactions, compared with other risk mitigation experienced credit risk professionals operating within a clearly defined techniques.
delegated authority framework, with only the most senior credit officers For derivative transactions, the Groups normal practice is to enter into entrusted with the higher levels of delegated authority.
The largest credit standard master agreements with counterparties e. g. ISDAs.
These exposures, which are outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk master agreements typically allow for netting of credit risk exposure to a Distribution Committee authority require the support of the Group counterparty resulting from derivative transactions against the Senior Credit Officer GSCO, the Groups most senior credit risk obligations to the counterparty in the event of default, and so produce a sanctioner.
For exposures in excess of the GSCOs authority, approval by lower net credit exposure.
These agreements may also reduce Group CRO is required.
In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk managers settlement exposure e. g. for foreign exchange transactions by allowing are organised in sanctioning teams by geography, industry and or payments on the same day in the same currency to be set-off against product.
The role of the Central Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction, oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking.
Central Risk sets the Credit Collateral Risk Control Framework, which provides the structure within which The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default of credit risk is managed, together with supporting credit risk policies.
the counterparty, comprising: home loans: a fixed charge over residential property in the form of houses, flats and other dwellings wholesale lending: a fixed charge over commercial property and other physical assets, in various forms other retail lending: includes charges over motor vehicles and other physical assets, second lien charges over residential property, and finance lease receivables derivatives: the Group also often seeks to enter into a margin agreement e. g. CSA with counterparties with which the Group has master netting agreements in place reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which have been legally transferred to the Group subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: cash collateral may be held against these arrangements.
Risk transfer A range of instruments including guarantees, credit insurance, credit derivatives and securitisations can be used to transfer credit risk from one counterparty to another.
These mitigate credit risk in two main ways: if the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more credit worthy than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk is reduced where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties must default before a loss materialises.
This is less likely than the default of either counterparty individually so credit risk is reduced.
Detailed policies are in place to ensure that credit risk mitigation is appropriately recognised and recorded and more information can be found in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Market risk management Roles and responsibilities Market risk The objectives of market risk management are to: The risk of loss arising from potential adverse understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit setting, reporting and oversight changes in the value of the firms assets and facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk liabilities from fluctuation in market variables management framework including, but not limited to, interest rates, ensure that market risk in the businesses is controlled according to the foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity allocated appetite support the Non-Core strategy of asset reductions by ensuring that prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and market risk remains within agreed risk appetite.
asset correlations To ensure the above objectives are met, a well-established governance structure is in place to manage these risks consistent with the ERMF.
See page 146 on risk management strategy, governance and risk culture.
The BRC recommends market risk appetite to the Board for their approval.
The Market Risk Principal Risk Officer MRPRO is responsible Overview for the Market Risk Control Framework and, under delegated authority Market risk from the CRO, agrees with the BCROs a limit framework within the Market risk arises primarily as a result of client facilitation in wholesale context of the approved market risk appetite.
markets, involving market making activities, risk management solutions Across the Group, market risk oversight and challenge is provided by and execution of syndications.
Upon execution of a trade with a client, business committees, Group committees, including the Market Risk the Group will look to hedge against the risk of the trade moving in an Committee.
Mismatches between client transactions and hedges result in market risk due to changes in asset prices.
The Market Risk Committee approves and makes recommendations concerning the Group-wide market risk profile.
This includes overseeing Market risk in the businesses resides primarily in Barclays International, the operation of the Market Risk Framework and associated standards Group Treasury and Non-Core.
These businesses have the mandate to and policies: reviewing arising market or regulatory issues, limits and incur market risk.
utilisation: and risk appetite levels to the Board.
The Committee is Market risk oversight and challenge is provided by business committees chaired by the MRPRO and attendees include the business heads of and Group committees, including the Market Risk Committee.
market risk, business aligned market risk managers and Internal Audit.
The head of each business is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities, while the head of the market risk team covering each business is responsible for implementing the risk control framework for market risk.
More information on market risk management can be found in Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee Group Risk Committee monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors Market Risk Committee oversees the management of the Groups market risk profile reviews market risk appetite proposals from the businesses reviews arising market or regulatory issues reviews state of the implementation of the risk frameworks in the businesses home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 151 Risk review Risk management Treasury and capital risk management Overview Treasury and capital risk Barclays Treasury manages treasury and capital risk on a day-to-day The risk that the Group may not achieve its basis with the Treasury Committee acting as the principal management body.
To ensure effective oversight and segregation of duties and in line business plans because of the availability of with the ERMF, the Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for planned liquidity, a shortfall in capital or a oversight of key capital and liquidity risk management activities.
mismatch in the interest rate exposures of its To ensure effective oversight and segregation of duties and in line with the ERMF, the Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for assets and liabilities.
The Treasury and Capital oversight of key capital, liquidity, non-traded market risk NTMR and Risk function is an independent risk function pension risk management activities.
The following describes the structure and governance associated with the risk types within the with responsibility for oversight of the following Treasury and Capital Risk function.
risks: Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms pension plans Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and liabilities.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee approve Risk Appetite review material issues impacting Treasury and Capital Risk approve the ICAAP and ILAAP Group Risk Committee review and recommend Risk Appetite to the BRC for approval escalation of material issues impacting Treasury and Capital Risk to the BRC review and recommend the ICAAP and ILAAP to the BRC for approval Treasury & Capital Risk Committee manage Treasury and Capital Risk Appetite monitor the Treasury and Capital Risk Pro le monitor the Treasury and Capital Risk Control Environment recommend Risk Appetite to the GRC and BRC for approval by the BRC escalation of material issues impacting Treasury and Capital Risk to the GRC and BRC 152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which details how Liquidity risk management liquidity stress events of varying severity would be managed.
Since the precise nature of any stress event cannot be known in advance, the Overview plans are designed to be flexible to the nature and severity of the stress The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Group in event and provide a menu of options that can be drawn upon as retaining the confidence of the financial markets and ensuring that the required.
Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider actions business is sustainable.
There is a control framework in place for to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a severe managing liquidity risk and this is designed to meet the following stress.
objectives: Risk Appetite and planning to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and Barclays has established a LRA over Group stress tests and is quality and a funding profile that is appropriate to meet the liquidity represented as the level of liquidity risk the Group chooses to take in risk appetite as expressed by the Board pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory to maintain market confidence in the Groups name.
This is achieved via a combination of policy formation, review and The key expression of the liquidity risk is through stress tests.
It is governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring.
measured with reference to the liquidity pool compared to anticipated Together, these meet internal and regulatory requirements.
stressed net contractual and contingent outflows for each of five stress scenarios.
Barclays has defined both internal short-term and long-term Roles and responsibilities LRA stress test metrics.
The Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for the The LRA for internal stress tests is approved by the Board.
The LRA is management and governance of the liquidity risk mandate defined by reviewed on a continuous basis and is subject to formal review at least the Board.
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity annually as part of the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment risk within the set risk appetite.
The stress outflows are used to determine the size of the Group Liquidity Liquidity risk management Pool, which represents those resources immediately available to meet A control framework is in place for Liquidity Risk under which the outflows in a stress.
In addition to the liquidity pool, the control Treasury function operates.
The control framework describes liquidity framework and policy provides for other management actions, including risk management processes, associated policies and controls that the generating liquidity from other liquid assets on the Groups balance Group has implemented to manage liquidity risk within the Liquidity Risk sheet in order to meet additional stress outflows, or to preserve or Appetite LRA and is subject to annual review.
restore the Liquidity Pool in the event of a liquidity stress.
The Board sets the LRA over Group stress tests and is represented as the Liquidity limits level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business Barclays manages limits on a variety of onand off-balance sheet objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
The approved LRA is exposures, a sample of which is shown in the table below.
These limits implemented in line with the control framework and policy for liquidity serve to control the overall extent and composition of liquidity risk taken risk.
by managing exposure to the cash outflows.
Control framework Early warning indicators Barclays monitors a range of market indicators for early signs of liquidity Barclays has a comprehensive control framework for managing the risk either in the market or specific to Barclays, a sample of which are Groups liquidity risk.
It is designed to deliver the appropriate term and shown in the table below.
These are designed to immediately identify structure of funding consistent with the LRA set by the Board.
the emergence of increased liquidity risk to maximise the time available The control framework incorporates a range of ongoing business to execute appropriate mitigating actions.
Early warning indicators are management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Groups balance used as part of the assessment of whether to invoke the Groups sheet and contingent liabilities and a Contingency Funding Plan.
Limit Contingency Funding Plan CFP.
setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the appropriate mix of funds.
Contingency funding plan and recovery and resolution planning Together, these tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event Barclays maintains a CFP which is designed to provide a framework could lead to an inability to meet the Groups obligations as they fall due.
where a liquidity stress could be effectively managed.
The CFP is proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the business and is The stress tests assess the potential contractual and contingent stress tested to ensure that it is operationally robust.
The CFP details the outflows under a range of scenarios, which are then used to determine circumstances in which the plan could be invoked, including as a result the size of the liquidity pool that is immediately available to meet of adverse movements in liquidity early warning indicators.
As part of the anticipated outflows if a stress occurs.
plan, the Barclays Treasurer has established a Liquidity Management Committee LMC.
On invocation of the CFP by the Executive Ongoing business Early signs Severe stress Recovery Resolution management Mild stress Stress testing and planning Monitoring and review Activate Contingency Activate appropriate Ensure an orderly resolution Funding Plan recovery options to restore can be carried out if Liquidity limits Management actions the capital and or liquidity necessary, without adverse not requiring business Management actions Early warning indicators position of the Group systemic risk or exposing rationalisation with a positive impact the public funds to loss on the franchise home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 153 Risk review Risk management Treasury and capital risk management Committee, the LMC would meet to identify the likely impact of the event on the Group and determine the appropriate response for the Primary objectives Core practices nature and severity of the stress.
The CFP provides a communication plan and includes management actions to respond to liquidity stresses of varying severity.
This could Ensure the Group and legal entities Meet minimum regulatory maintain adequate capital to requirements in all jurisdictions.
include monetising the liquidity pool, slowing the extension of credit, withstand the impact of the risks Maintain capital buffers over increasing the tenor of funding and securitising or selling assets.
that may arise under the stressed regulatory minimums.
conditions analysed by the Group.
Perform Group-wide internal Capital risk management and regulatory stress tests.
Develop contingency plans for severe and extreme stresses, Overview which include stress management actions and recovery actions.
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital governance framework.
Maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations.
Organisation and structure The management of capital risk is integral to the Groups approach to Maintain adequate capital to cover Maintain a capital plan on a the Groups current and forecast short-term and medium-term basis financial stability and sustainability management, and is embedded in business needs and associated aligned with the Groups strategic the way businesses and legal entities operate.
risks in order to provide a viable objectives, balancing capital and sustainable business offering.
generation of the business with Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and business growth and shareholder policy.
The capital management strategy, outlined in the Group and legal distributions.
entity capital plans, is developed in alignment with the control framework and policy for capital risk, and is implemented consistently in order to deliver on the Groups objectives.
The Board approves the Group capital plan, internal and regulatory Roles and responsibilities stress tests, and the Group recovery plan.
The Treasury Committee is Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the capital and reports to the Group Finance Director.
The Treasury and Groups capital management objectives, capital plan and risk Capital Risk function contains a Capital Risk Oversight team, and is an frameworks.
The Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and independent risk function that reports to the Group CRO and is annually reviews risk appetite and the impact of stress scenarios on the responsible for oversight of capital risk.
Group capital plan forecast in order to agree the Groups projected capital adequacy.
Capital risk management Local management ensures compliance with an entitys minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to local Asset and Liability The Groups capital management strategy is driven by the strategic aims Committees with oversight by the Groups Treasury Committee, as of the Group and the risk appetite set by the Board.
objectives are achieved through well embedded capital management practices.
Capital planning and allocation The Group assesses its capital requirements on multiple bases, with the Groups capital plan set in consideration of the Groups risk profile and appetite, strategic and performance objectives, regulatory requirements, and market and internal factors, including the results of stress testing.
The capital plan is managed on a top-down and bottom-up basis through both short-term and medium-term financial planning cycles, and is developed with the objective of ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate level of capital to support its capital requirements.
The PRA determines the regulatory capital requirements for the consolidated Group.
Under these regulatory frameworks, capital requirements are set in consideration of the level of risk that the firm is exposed to and the factors above, and are measured through both risk-based 'RWAs' and leverage-based metrics.
An internal assessment of the Banks capital adequacy is undertaken through the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and is used to inform the capital requirements of the firm.
154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Group expects to meet the minimum requirements for capital and Foreign exchange risk The Group has capital resources and RWAs denominated in foreign leverage both during the transition period and upon full implementation, and also holds an internal buffer sized according to the firms currencies.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital assessment of capital risk.
As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are Through the capital planning process, capital allocations are approved sensitive to foreign currency movements.
by the Group Executive Committee, taking into consideration the risk appetite and strategic aims of the Group.
Regulated legal entities are, at The Groups capital ratio management strategy is to minimise the a minimum, capitalised to meet their current and forecast regulatory volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate and business requirements.
To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital resources to foreign Monitoring and reporting currency RWAs the same as the Groups consolidated capital ratios.
Capital is managed and monitored to ensure that Barclays capital plans The Groups investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches, remain appropriate and that risks to the plans are considered.
to the extent that they are not hedged for foreign exchange movements, Limits are in place to support alignment with the capital plan and translate into GBP upon consolidation creating CET1 capital resources sensitive to foreign currency movements.
Changes in the GBP value of adherence to regulatory requirements, and are monitored through appropriately governed forums.
Capital risks against firm-specific and the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a movement in CET1 capital.
macroeconomic early warning indicators are monitored and reported to the Treasury Committee, with clear escalation channels to senior To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional management.
This enables a consistent and objective approach to to the CET1 capital resources, the Group issues debt capital in nonmonitoring the capital outlook against the capital plan, and supports the Sterling currencies, where possible.
This is primarily achieved through early identification when outlooks deteriorate.
the issuance of debt capital from Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC in Capital management information is readily available to support the US Dollar and Euro, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing Senior Managements strategic and day-to-day business decision capital in local currencies.
Pension risk Stress testing and risk mitigation The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for Internal Group-wide stress testing is undertaken to quantify and past and current employees.
The ability of the pension fund to meet the understand the impact of sensitivities on the capital plan and capital projected pension payments is maintained principally through ratios arising from stressed macroeconomic conditions.
economic, market and peer institution stresses are used to inform the Pension risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension assumptions developed for internal stress tests and to assess the fund assets might decline: investment returns might reduce: or the effectiveness of mitigation strategies.
estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase as a result of The Group also undertakes stress tests prescribed by the BoE and EBA, changes to the market process.
The Group monitors the market risks arising from its defined benefit pension schemes and works with the and legal entities undertake stress tests prescribed by their local regulators.
These stress tests inform decisions on the size and quality of Trustees to address shortfalls.
In these circumstances, the Group could be required or might choose to make extra contributions to the pension the internal capital buffer required and the results are incorporated into the Group capital plan to ensure adequacy of capital under normal and fund.
The Groups main defined benefit scheme was closed to new entrants in 2012. severe, but plausible stressed conditions.
Actions are identified as part of the stress tests that can be taken to mitigate the risks that may arise in the event of material adverse changes in the current economic and business outlook.
As an additional layer of protection, the Group Recovery Plan defines the actions and implementation strategies available to the Group to increase or preserve capital resources in the situation that a stress occurs that is more severe than anticipated.
Transferability of capital Surplus capital held in Group entities is required to be repatriated to Barclays Bank PLC in the form of dividends and or capital repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements, exchange controls and tax implications.
This approach provides optimal flexibility on the redeployment of capital across legal entities.
Pre and post the implementation of ring-fencing, capital is managed for the Group as a whole as well as its operating subsidiaries to ensure fungibility and redeployment of capital while meeting relevant internal and regulatory targets at entity levels.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 155 Risk review Risk management Treasury and capital risk management Interest rate risk in the banking book Roles and responsibilities management The Treasury Market Risk team: provides risk management oversight and monitoring of all traded and Overview non-traded market risk in Treasury, which specifically includes risk management of the liquidity buffer, funding activities, asset and Banking book operations generate non-traded market risk, primarily liability management hedging, residual interest rate risk from the through interest rate risk arising from the sensitivity of net interest hedge accounting solution and foreign exchange translation hedging margins to changes in interest rates.
To manage interest rate risk within sets and monitors risk limits to ensure non-traded market risk taken in its defined risk appetite, the principal banking businesses engage in Treasury and the customer banking book adheres to agreed risk internal derivative trades with Treasury.
However, the businesses remain appetite.
susceptible to market risk from six key sources: direct risk: the mismatch between the run-off of product balances and The Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book team: the associated interest rate hedge, given that the balance sheet is held assesses interest rate risk in the banking book, particularly as it relates static to customer banking book and Treasury structural risk: the impact of the rate shock on the rolling hedge acts as review and challenge of the First Lines risk management replenishment rate on non-maturity products, given that the balance practices and decisions including the hedging activity performed by sheet is held static Treasury on behalf of the business prepayment risk: balance run-off may be faster or slower than acts as review and challenge for the behavioural assumptions used in expected, due to customer behaviour in response to general economic hedging and transfer pricing.
This can lead to a mismatch between the actual balance of products and the hedges executed with Treasury based on initial expectations recruitment risk: the volume of new business may be lower or higher than expected, requiring the business to unwind pre-hedging or execute hedging transactions with Treasury at different rates than expected residual risk and margin compression: the business may retain a small element of interest rate risk to facilitate the day-to-day management of customer business.
Additionally, in the current low interest rate environment, deposits on which the Group sets the interest rate are exposed to margin compression.
This is because for any further fall in base rates the Group must absorb an increasing amount of the rate move in its margin lag risk: the risk of being unable to re-price products immediately after a change in interest rates due to both mandatory notification periods and operational constraints in large volume mailings.
This is highly prevalent in managed rates savings product e. g. Everyday Saver where customers must be informed in writing of any planned reduction in their savings rates.
Non-traded market risk also arises from the Liquidity Buffer investment portfolio, which is managed to a defined risk appetite.
Investments in the liquidity buffer are generally subject to available for sale accounting rules: changes in the value of these assets impact capital via the available for sale reserve.
156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Operational risk management Organisation and structure Operational risk Operational Risk comprises a number of specific risks defined as follow: The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or external supplier: inadequate selection and ongoing management of external suppliers failed processes or systems, human factors or financial reporting: reporting misstatement or omission within due to external events for example fraud external financial or regulatory reporting where the root cause is not due to credit or fraud: dishonest behaviour with the intent to make a gain or cause a loss to others market risks.
information: inadequate protection of the Groups information in accordance with its value and sensitivity payments process: failure in operation of payments processes Overview people: inadequate people capabilities, and or performance reward structures, and or inappropriate behaviours The management of operational risk has two key objectives: premises and security: unavailability of premises to meet business minimise the impact of losses suffered, both in the normal course of demand and or safe working environments, and inadequate business small losses and from extreme events large losses protection of physical assets, employees and customers against improve the effective management of the Group and strengthen its external threats brand and external reputation.
taxation: failure to comply with tax laws and practice which could The Group is committed to the management and measurement of lead to financial penalties, additional tax charges or reputational operational risk and was granted a waiver by the FSA now the PRA to damages operate an Advanced Measurement Approach AMA for operational technology including cyber security : failure to develop and deploy risk, which commenced in January 2008.
The majority of the Group secure, stable and reliable technology solutions which includes risk of calculates regulatory capital requirements using AMA 94% of capital loss or detriment to the Groups business and customers as a result of requirements, except for small parts of the organisation acquired since actions committed or facilitated through the use of networked the original permission 6% of capital requirements using the Basic information systems Indicator Approach BIA.
The Group works to benchmark its internal transaction operations: failure in the management of critical operational risk management and measurement practices with peer transaction processes.
banks and to drive the further development of advanced techniques.
In order to ensure complete coverage of the potential adverse impacts The Group is committed to operating within a strong system of internal on the Group arising from operational risk, the operational risk taxonomy controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without extends beyond the operational risks listed above to cover areas included exposing the Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational within conduct risk.
For more information on conduct risk please see damages.
The Group has an overarching framework that sets out the page 160. approach to internal governance.
This guide establishes the mechanisms and processes by which the Board directs the organisation, through These risks may result in financial and or non-financial impacts including setting the tone and expectations from the top, delegating authority and legal regulatory breaches or reputational damages.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee Board Audit Committee Group Risk Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the risk appetite of the firm, its business reviews and monitors control environment units and legal entities across the principal risks and review usage of the same reviews and challenges the effectiveness of the risk control environment proposes Group level risk limits and thresholds to the Board, to optimally manage reviews control issues and escalate to BAC as appropriate principal risks within appetite reviews a summary of lessons learnt and consider the impact on the risk profile and monitors the Group risk profile, including emerging risks, against expected trends, control environment and the utilisation of risk appetite.
Agree any required actions reviews limit usage and manage within tolerance agreed by the Board reviews deep dives of specific risks as requested by senior management reviews the impact of any material acquisitions and disposals on the risk profile reviews remediation plans and actions taken, and agree any further action required Business Risk Committee Operational Risk Review Forum Group Controls Committee reviews aggregate and business operational risk profile oversees effectiveness of control environment reviews and monitors operational risk capital reviews and recommends control framework oversees risk events risk exposures oversees control remediation activities monitors emerging themes oversees execution of operational risk management framework consistently across the firm oversees risk and internal control matters including material issues home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 157 Risk review Risk management Operational risk management Roles and responsibilities The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and functional units where the risk arises.
The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through specific meetings which cover governance, risk and control.
Businesses are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, operational risk events and a review of scenarios.
The Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of operational risk across the Group.
Operational risk management acts in a Second Line of Defence capacity, and is responsible for implementation of the framework and monitoring operational risk events and risk exposures.
Key indicators KIs allow the Group to monitor its operational risk profile and alert management when risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite levels and drive timely decision making and actions.
Through attendance at business GRC meetings, operational risk management provides specific risk input into the issues highlighted and the overall risk profile of the business.
Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered through the Second Line of Defence review meetings.
Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the BRC or the BAC.
Risk and control self-assessments The Group identifies and assesses all material risks within each business and evaluates the key controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Managers in the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate the effectiveness of key controls in place and assess whether the risks are being effectively managed.
The businesses are then able to make decisions on what action, if any, is required to reduce the level of risk to the Group.
These risk assessments are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that each business continually understands the risks it faces.
158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Model risk management The model risk policy prescribes Group-wide, end to end requirements Model risk for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development, implementation, The risk of the potential adverse consequences monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes.
The Policy is supported by global Standards from financial assessments or decisions based covering model inventory, documentation, validation, complexity and on incorrect or misused model outputs and materiality, testing and monitoring, overlays, as well as vendor models and CCAR benchmarking.
Barclays is continuously enhancing model risk management.
MRM reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and operates a global framework.
Implementation of best practice standards is a central objective of the Group.
Large new model development programmes are currently in motion to implement the model requirements of UK structural reform, Overview CCAR, FRTB and IFRS9.
Barclays uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting risk, Roles and responsibilities valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital The key model risk management activities include: adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting reporting requirements.
ensuring that models are correctly identified across all relevant areas Because models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, of the firm, and recorded in the Group Models Database GMD, the they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their output.
The heads of the relevant areas Model errors can result in inappropriate business decisions being made, typically, the Business Chief Risk Officers, Business Chief Executive financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk and or inadequate capital Officers, the Treasurer, the Chief Financial Officer annually attest to reporting.
the completeness and accuracy of the model inventory.
MGC undertakes regular conformance reviews on the model inventory.
Models may also be misused, for instance applied to products that they These activities are detailed in the Model Inventory, Workflow and were not intended for, or not adjusted, where fundamental changes to Taxonomy Standard their environment would justify re-evaluating their core assumptions.
ensuring that every model has a model owner who is accountable for Errors and misuse are the primary sources of model risk.
The model owner must sign off models prior to submission Robust model risk management is crucial to ensuring that model risk is to IVU for validation.
The model owner works with the relevant assessed and managed within a defined risk appetite.
Strong model risk technical teams model developers, implementation, monitoring, data culture, appropriate technology environment, and adequate focus on services, regulatory to ensure that the model presented to IVU is and understanding and resolving model limitations are crucial components.
remains fit for purpose, in accordance with the Model Documentation Standard, and the Model Testing, Monitoring and Annual Review Standard Organisation and structure ensuring that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, Barclays allocates substantial resources to identify and record models prior to being implemented and on a continual basis, in accordance and their usage, document and monitor the performance of models, with the Model Validation and Approval Standard.
The level of review validate models and ensure that model limitations are adequately and challenge applied by IVU is tailored to the materiality and addressed.
Validation includes a review of the model assumptions, conceptual soundness, data, design, performance Barclays has a dedicated Model Risk Management MRM function that testing, compliance with external requirements if applicable, as well as consists of two main units: the Independent Validation Unit IVU, any limitations, proposed remediation and overlays with supporting responsible for model validation and approval, and Model Governance rationale.
Material model changes are subject to prioritised validation and Controls MGC, covering model risk governance, controls and and approval reporting, including ownership of model risk policy.
specific Standards cover model risk management activities relating to CCAR benchmarking and challenger modelling, model overlays, vendor models, and model complexity and materiality.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee Group Risk Committee Business Unit Risk Committees home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 159 Risk review Risk management Conduct risk management Overview Conduct risk The Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the goals The risk of detriment to customers, clients, of providing positive customer and client outcomes and protecting market integrity.
This includes taking reasonable steps to ensure our market integrity, competition or Barclays from culture and strategy are appropriately aligned to these goals: our the inappropriate supply of financial services, products and services are reasonably designed and delivered to meet the needs of our customers and clients as well as promoting the fair and including instances of wilful or negligent orderly operation of the markets in which we do business.
As part of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF refresh page 146, Reputation risk has been designated as a Principal Risk and Financial Crime has been designated as a Risk Category under Conduct Risk.
Organisation and structure The Group Risk Committee GRC is the most senior Executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays management of Conduct risk.
Roles and responsibilities The Conduct Risk Principal Risk Framework PRF comprises a number of elements that allow the Group to manage and measure its conduct risk profile.
The PRF is implemented vertically across the Group through an organisational structure that requires all businesses to implement and operate their own conduct risk frameworks that meet the requirements within the ERMF.
The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk and compliance with control requirements sits with the business where the risk arises.
The Conduct Risk Accountable Executive for each business is responsible for ensuring the implementation of, and adherence to the PRF.
The Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Conduct Risk PRF and for overseeing Group-wide conduct risk management.
Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly and an event-driven basis.
The quarterly reports detail the conduct risks inherent within the business strategy and include forward looking horizon scanning analysis as well as backward looking evidence-based indicators from both internal and external sources.
For details please refer to the Risk Review, Conduct Risk Performance section of this report on page 227.
Organisation and structure Board Reputation Committee Group Risk Committee Business Unit Risk Committees 160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Risk management Reputation risk management Roles and responsibilities Reputation risk The Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for ensuring that a The risk that an action, transaction, investment Reputation Principal Risk Framework and policies are developed and that they are subject to limits, monitored, reported on and escalated, as or event will reduce trust in the firms integrity required.
and competence by clients, counterparties, Reputation risk is by nature pervasive and can be difficult to quantify, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
requiring more subjective judgement than many other risks.
The Reputation Principal Risk Framework sets out what is required to ensure Reputation risk is managed effectively and consistently across the bank.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing Reputation risk and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business and support functions where the risk arises.
Overview Each business is required to operate within established Reputation risk A reduction of trust in Barclays integrity and competence may reduce appetite and to submit quarterly reports to the Group Reputation the attractiveness of Barclays to stakeholders and could lead to negative Management team, highlighting their most significant current and publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing potential Reputation risks and issues and how they are being managed.
and potential client business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly in recruiting talent.
Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
Reputation risk reports which are prepared for the Group Risk With effect from 2017, Reputation risk has been redesignated as a Committee and the Board Reputation Committee.
Principal Risk within the Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Organisation and structure The Group Risk Committee GRC is the most senior Executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays management of Reputation risk.
Organisation and structure Board Reputation Committee Group Risk Committee Business Unit Risk Committees home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 161 Risk review Risk management Legal risk Organisation and structure Legal risk The Group Risk Committee GRC is the most senior executive body The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays management of Legal risk.
Escalation paths from this forum exist to the damages or fines from the failure of the firm to Board of Barclays PLC.
meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.
Roles and responsibilities The Legal Risk Framework sets out what is required to ensure Legal risk is managed effectively and consistently across the bank.
The primary responsibility for managing Legal risk and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business where the risk arises.
Overview On behalf of the businesses, the aligned General Counsel or Legal Senior With effect from 2017, Legal risk, which was previously a Key Risk under Management, will undertake Legal risk appetite assessments and operational risk, has been re-designated as a Principal Risk within the provide advice and guidance on Legal risk management.
The Legal risk Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
assessment includes both quantitative and qualitative criteria including: The Legal Risk Framework prescribes Group-wide requirements for the Knowledge of Legal risk material control issues or weaknesses identification, measurement and management of Legal risk, covering Emerging risks resulting from upcoming changes in the control assessment, risk appetite, key indicators and governance.
The Group environment, systems, or internal organisational structures General Counsel GCC is the Legal Principal Risk Officer and owns the Potential implications on Barclays of forthcoming changes in the Legal Risk Framework and the associated legal policies.
external legal and regulatory environment and or prevailing decisions Legal risk is defined by the five respective Legal Policies: from courts and enforcing authorities as they relate to defined legal risks.
Contractual arrangements failure to have enforceable contracts in place or for contracts to be enforceable as intended The Legal Principal Risk Officer is responsible for owning and Litigation management failure to adequately manage litigation maintaining an appropriate Legal Risk Framework and for overseeing involving Barclays as either claimant or defendant Group-wide legal risk management.
Intellectual property IP failure to protect the Groups IP assets or Barclays infringing IP rights of third parties Competition antitrust law failure to follow competition antitrust law or failure to manage relationships with competition and antitrust authorities Use of law firms failure to control instruction of an external law firm.
Group-wide and Business Function specific Standards may be put in place to support the implementation of the legal policies.
The standards are aligned to one of the policies and are implemented by Businesses Functions.
Organisation and structure Board Group Risk Committee Business Unit Legal Risk Committee 162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
