Risk r Risk re evie view w Material existing and emerging risks Analysis of material existing and emerging risks This section describes the material risks to which senior management pay particular attention, which they believe could cause the future results of the Groups operations, financial condition and prospects to differ materially from current expectations.
For more information about the major risk policies which underlie risk exposures, see the consolidated policy-based qualitative information in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
A summary of this information may also be found in this report in the Risk management section between pages 146 to 162.
136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance This section describes the material risks to which senior preference for placement in the ring-fenced or non ring-fenced bank management pay particular attention, which they believe could may result in changes to design and implementation plans.
cause the future results of the Groups operations, financial At the European level, structural reform regulation is still being condition and prospects to differ materially from current developed as highlighted by the European Union proposal issued in expectations.
These expectations include the ability to pay dividends, November 2016 for Intermediate Holding Companies.
The impact of maintain appropriate levels of capital and meet capital and leverage final rules on Barclays businesses is still to be assessed once European ratio targets, and achieve stated commitments as outlined in the regulation is finalised.
Final rules will need to be considered alongside Strategic Report.
In addition, risks relating to the Group that are not EU Referendum implications.
The implementation date for these currently known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may proposals will depend on the date on which any final legislation is individually or cumulatively have the potential to materially affect agreed.
the future results of the Groups operations, financial condition and There is a risk that Barclays does not meet regulatory requirements prospects.
Failure to meet these requirements may Material risks and their impact are described below in two sections: i have an adverse impact on the Groups profitability, operating risks which senior management believe are likely to affect more than one flexibility, flexibility of deployment of capital and funding, return on Principal Risk: and ii risks which senior management believe are likely to equity, ability to pay dividends, credit ratings, and or financial impact a single Principal Risk.
An emerging risk is a risk that has the condition.
potential to have a significant detrimental effect on the Groups ii Business conditions, general economy and geopolitical issues performance, but currently the outcome and the time horizon for the The Groups performance could be adversely affected in relation to more crystallisation of its possible impact is more uncertain and more difficult than one Principal Risk by a weak or deteriorating global economy or to predict than for other risk factors that are not identified as emerging political instability.
These factors may also occur in one or more of the risks.
A revised ERMF was approved by the Board in December 2016.
Groups main countries of operation.
This includes a revised risk taxonomy comprising eight Principal Risks Model Risk, Reputation Risk and Legal Risk were not previously The Group offers a broad range of services including to retail, classified as Principal Risks.
Additional detail on ERMF and Principal institutional and government customers, in a large number of countries.
Risks may be found on page 146.
The breadth of these operations means that deterioration in the economic environment, or an increase in political instability in countries Additional detail on the management of risks may be found in Barclays where the Group is active, or in any other systemically important Approach to Managing Risk in the Barclays PLC 2016 Pillar 3 Report.
economy, could adversely affect the Groups performance and prospects.
For the Group, a deterioration of conditions in its key markets could Material existing and emerging risks potentially affect performance in a number of ways including, for example: i impacting more than one Principal Risk deteriorating business, consumer or investor confidence leading to reduced levels of client activity, or indirectly, a material adverse impact i Structural reform on GDP growth in significant markets and therefore on Group The UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 the UK Banking performance: ii higher levels of default rates and impairment: iii mark Reform Act and associated secondary legislation and regulatory rules, to market losses in trading portfolios resulting from changes in factors require all UK deposit-taking banks with over 25bn of deposits from such as credit ratings, share prices and solvency of counterparties: and individuals and small businesses to separate certain day-to-day banking iv lower levels of fixed asset investment and productivity growth activities e. g. deposit-taking offered to retail and smaller business overall.
customers from other wholesale and investment banking services.
Through the creation of Barclays ring-fenced bank, the Group will Global growth is expected to remain modest in 2017, with low single ensure that core deposits placed within the European Economic Area digit growth in advanced economies alongside a slowdown in emerging EEA are ring-fenced to meet the requirements of the legislation by markets.
This moderate economic performance, lower commodity prices 2019.
The implementation of these changes involves a number of risks and increased geopolitical tensions mean that the distribution of risks to which include: global economic activity continues to be biased to the downside.
Commodity prices, particularly oil prices, remain depressed, but could The Group must restructure its intra-group and external capital, fall further if growth in demand remains weak or supply takes longer funding and liquidity arrangements to meet regulatory requirements than expected to adjust.
At the same time, countries with high reliance and support business needs.
The changes will impact the sources of on commodity-related earnings have already experienced a tightening of funding available to the different entities, including preventing the non financial conditions.
A sustained period of low prices risks triggering ring-fenced banks access to certain categories of deposit funding.
further financial distress, default and contagion, for our customers, their These changes may result in higher funding costs.
suppliers and local communities, and resulting losses for Barclays.
The changes to the Group structure may negatively impact the assessment made by credit rating agencies and creditors.
The risk Moreover, sentiment towards emerging markets as a whole continues to profile and key risk drivers of the ring-fenced bank and the non be driven in large part by developments in China, where there is ring-fenced bank will be specific to the activities and risk profile of significant concern around the ability of authorities to manage growth each entity.
As a result different Group entities are likely to be whilst transitioning towards services.
A stronger than expected assessed differently and this may result in differences in credit ratings.
slowdown could result if authorities fail to appropriately manage the end Changes to the credit assessment at the Group or individual entity of the investment and credit-led boom, while the consequences from a level, including the potential for ratings downgrades and ratings faster slowdown would flow through both financial and trade channels differences across entities, could impact access and cost of certain into other economies, and affect commodity markets.
Whilst tightening of monetary policy by the US Federal Reserve was not Implementation of ring-fencing introduces a number of execution as pronounced as expected during 2016, a moderate increase in activity risks.
Technology change could result in outages or operational errors.
is expected during 2017, the increasing divergence of policies between Legal challenge to the ring-fence transfer scheme may delay the major advanced economies risks triggering further financial market transfer of assets and liabilities to the ring-fenced bank.
Changes to interest rate expectations could ignite further the setup of the Group Service Company as a separate legal entity volatility and US Dollar appreciation, particularly if the US Federal servicing both trading entities i. e. ring-fenced bank and non Reserve were to increase interest rates faster than markets currently ring-fenced bank will require a number of intra-group service level expect.
Emerging markets have already seen growth slow following agreements to be established and agreed between the Group Service increased capital outflows, but growth may slow further if tighter US Company and the trading entities and will require the Group to set up interest rate policy drives further reallocation of capital.
a new approach to manage, fund and deliver the activities that will be provided by this entity.
Delayed delivery could increase reputational risk or result in regulatory non-compliance.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 137 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance In several countries, reversals of capital inflows, as well as fiscal austerity, entity structure including with regard to issuance and deployment of capital and funding for the Group : changing the Groups business mix have already caused deterioration in political stability.
This could be exacerbated by a renewed rise in asset price volatility or sustained or exiting other businesses: and or undertaking other actions to strengthen the Groups position.
See Treasury and Capital Risk on page pressure on government finances.
In addition, geopolitical tensions in some areas of the world, including the Middle East and Eastern Europe 152 and Supervision and Regulation on page 229 for more information.
are already acute, and are at risk of further deterioration.
c Market infrastructure reforms In the US, the policy platform of the new administration is expected to Financial market infrastructure is subject to extensive and increasing be clarified during the early part of 2017.
There is the possibility of regulation in many of the Groups markets.
The derivatives market has significant changes in policy in sectors including trade, healthcare and been the subject of particular focus across the G20 countries, requiring commodities which may have an impact on associated Barclays the clearing of standardised derivatives and the mandatory margining of portfolios.
Proposed policy changes including tax-cuts and significant non-cleared derivatives.
More broadly, the recast Markets in Financial infrastructure spending are likely to result in higher global growth, Instruments Directive in Europe MiFID II will fundamentally change the further reinforcing the move towards global reflation.
Political change framework for market infrastructure, the Benchmarks Regulation will may increase uncertainty as to regulatory trends, both in the US and the regulate the use of benchmarks in the EU, and regulation governing EU.
Central Securities Depositories will increase the requirements upon In the UK, the vote in favour of leaving the EU has given rise to political participants in the financial markets.
uncertainty with attendant consequences for investment and It is possible that these additional regulations, and the related expenses confidence.
See vi EU Referendum on page 139. and requirements, will increase the cost of and therefore impact willingness of participation in the financial markets.
iii Change and execution risk The Group continues to drive changes to its functional capabilities and d Recovery and resolution planning operating environment in order to allow the business to exploit emerging In recent years, there has been a strong regulatory focus on resolvability and digital technologies, and improve customer experience whilst also from regulators globally, and Barclays continues to work with the embedding enhanced regulatory requirements, strategic realignment, relevant authorities to identify and address potential impediments to the and business model changes.
The complexity, increasing pace, and Groups resolvability.
As part of this work, the Group is required to volume of changes underway simultaneously mean there is heightened submit formal Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP submissions to UK, execution risk and potential for change not being delivered to plan.
US and South African regulators describing Barclays strategy for Failure to adequately manage this risk could result in extended outages recovery and rapid and orderly resolution.
These submissions are and disruption, financial loss, customer detriment, legal liability, potential evaluated by regulators on the basis of both qualitative and quantitative regulatory censure and reputational damage.
metrics, the specifics of which may become more rigorous over time.
Should the relevant authorities in any jurisdiction ultimately determine iv Risks arising from regulation of the financial services industry that a resolution plan were not credible or would not facilitate an orderly The financial services industry continues to be the focus of significant resolution, Barclays or its subsidiaries could be made subject to more regulatory change and scrutiny which may adversely affect the Groups stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on business, financial performance, capital and risk management strategies.
The potential structural changes that For further information on regulations affecting the Group, including may be required to address such a determination may negatively impact significant regulatory developments, please see the section on the financial or competitive position or results of operations of the Supervision and Regulation on page 229.
Group, as well as increase the risk that the Group would be unable to maintain appropriate prudential ratios or be restricted from making intraa Regulatory change group or external capital contributions.
The Group, in common with much of the financial services industry, remains subject to significant levels of regulatory change and increasing e Stress testing scrutiny in many of the countries in which it operates including, in The Group and certain of its members are subject to supervisory stress particular, the UK and the US.
This has led to a more intensive approach testing exercises in a number of jurisdictions.
These exercises currently to supervision and oversight, increased expectations and enhanced include the programmes of the BoE, the EBA, the FDIC, the FRB and the requirements.
As a result, regulatory risk will remain a focus for senior SARB.
These exercises are designed to assess the resilience of banks to management and consume significant levels of business resources.
adverse economic or financial developments and ensure that they have Furthermore, this more intensive approach and the enhanced robust, forward-looking capital and liquidity management processes requirements, uncertainty and extent of international regulatory that account for the risks associated with their business profile.
coordination as enhanced supervisory standards are developed and Assessment by regulators is on both a quantitative and qualitative basis, implemented may adversely affect the Groups business, capital and risk the latter focusing on the Groups or certain of its members business management strategies and or may result in the Group deciding to model, data provision, stress testing capability and internal management modify its legal entity structure, capital and funding structures and processes and controls.
The stress testing requirements to which the business mix, or to exit certain business activities altogether or not to Group and its members are subject are becoming increasingly stringent, expand in areas despite otherwise attractive potential.
including in the US where the newly sub-consolidated operations and the IHC will be stress-tested and examined under the FRBs annual CCAR b Changes in prudential requirements, including changes to CRD IV programme for the first time in 2017.
Failure to meet requirements of The Groups results and ability to conduct its business may be negatively regulatory stress tests, or the failure by regulators to approve the stress affected by changes or additions to supervisory and prudential test results and capital plans of the Group, could result in the Group expectations, including in relation to any minimum requirements for own being required to enhance its capital position, limit capital distributions funds and eligible liabilities, leverage or liquidity requirements, applicable or position capital in specific subsidiaries.
For more information on stress buffers and or add-ons to such minimum requirements and RWA testing, please see Supervision and Regulation on page 229. calculation methodologies all as may be set by international, EU or national authorities from time to time including, for example, through v Regulatory action in the event of a bank failure changes being proposed to the CRD IV framework.
As described under Supervision of the Group, Regulation in the EU and Changes to or additional supervisory and prudential expectations, either UK, Recovery and Resolution developments on page 231, UK resolution individually or in aggregate, may lead to unexpected enhanced authorities have the right under certain circumstances to intervene in requirements in relation to the Groups capital, leverage, liquidity and the Group pursuant to the stabilisation and resolution powers granted to funding ratios or alter the way such ratios are calculated.
This may result them under the Banking Act and other applicable legislation.
in, amongst other things, a need for further management actions to meet the changed requirements, such as: increasing capital or liquidity resources, reducing leverage and risk weighted assets: modifying legal 138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information If any of the powers conferred on the BoE were to be exercised, or there vii Impairment were an increased risk of exercise, in respect of the Group or any entity The introduction of the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 Financial within the Group, this might result in a material adverse effect on the Instruments, due to be implemented on 1 January 2018, is expected to rights or interests of shareholders and creditors including holders of debt result in higher impairment loss allowances that are recognised earlier, securities and could have a material adverse effect on the market price on a more forward looking basis and on a broader scope of financial of shares and other securities issued by the Group.
Such effects could instruments than is the case under IAS 39.
Measurement will involve include losses of shareholdings or associated rights including, the increased complexity, judgement and is expected to have a material dilution of percentage ownership of the Groups share capital, and may financial impact and impairment charges will tend to be more volatile.
result in creditors, including debt holders, losing all or a part of the value Unsecured products with longer expected lives, such as revolving credit of their investment in the Groups issued securities.
cards, are expected to be most impacted.
The capital treatment on the increased reserves is the subject of ongoing discussion with regulators vi EU referendum and across the industry, but there is potential for significant adverse The UK held a referendum on 23 June 2016 on whether it should remain impact on regulatory capital ratios.
In addition, the move from incurred a member of the EU.
This resulted in a vote in favour of leaving the EU.
to expected credit losses has the potential to impact the Groups The result of the referendum means that the long-term nature of the performance under stressed economic conditions or regulatory stress UKs relationship with the EU is unclear and there is uncertainty as to the tests.
For more information please refer to Note 1 Significant Accounting nature and timing of any agreement with the EU on the terms of exit.
In Policies on pages 284 to 289. the interim, there is a risk of uncertainty for both the UK and the EU, Barclays has a jointly accountable risk and finance implementation and which could adversely affect the economy of the UK and the other governance programme with representation from all impacted economies in which we operate.
The potential risks associated with an departments.
During 2016, work continued on the design and build of exit from the EU have been carefully considered by the Board and impairment models, systems, processes, governance, controls and data include: collection and continues to be refined during 2017.
During 2017, there is a planned parallel run which includes continued model, process and Market risk output validation, testing, calibration and analysis.
Potential for continued market volatility notably FX and interest rates given political uncertainty which could affect the value of Trading There will be three different layers of impairment committees.
to the existing Group and Business level committees, Legal Entity committees for Barclays UK and Barclays International will also be in Credit risk place.
Committees will be chaired by the Chief Risk Officer CRO, with Increased risk of a UK recession with lower growth, higher joint accountability by both CROs and Chief Financial Officers CFOs for unemployment and falling UK house prices.
This would likely signing off the results.
The new IFRS 9 impairment committee structure, negatively impact a number of Barclays portfolios, notably: higher with underlying key controls, is expected to be in operation from Q2 Loan to Value home loans, UK unsecured lending including cards and 2017.
There will also be a Scenarios Management Committee to review Commercial Real Estate exposures.
and approve the scenario process.
The scope of review will include the scenarios and scenario narratives, the core set of macroeconomic Operational risk variables and any management overlays.
The Scenario Management Changes to current EU Passporting rights: the UKs withdrawal from Committee will attest that the scenarios adequately account for the nonlinearity and asymmetry of the loss distribution.
Reported results and the EU may result in the loss of cross-border market access rights which would require Barclays to make alternative licensing key messages will be communicated to the Board Audit Committee and Risk Executive Committee, who will have oversight roles and provide arrangements in EU jurisdictions in which Barclays continues to operate.
challenge of key assumptions, including the basis of the scenarios adopted.
Uncertainty over UKs future approach to EU freedom of movement will impact Barclays access to the EU talent pool, decisions on hiring from the EU of critical roles and rights to work of current Barclays Material existing and emerging risks by non-UK EU citizens located in the UK and UK citizens located in the Principal Risk EU.
Credit risk Legal risk The legal framework within which Barclays operates could change and The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or become more uncertain as the UK takes steps to replace or repeal counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully honour their certain laws currently in force, which are based on EU legislation and obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely payment of regulation.
Certainty of existing contracts, enforceability of legal principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.
obligations and uncertainty around the outcome of disputes may be The Group may suffer financial loss if any of its customers, clients or affected until the impacts of the loss of the current jurisdictional market counterparties fails to fulfil their contractual obligations to the arrangements between UK and EU courts and the universal Group.
The Group may also suffer loss when the value of its investment enforceability of judgements across the EU, are fully known including in the financial instruments of an entity falls as a result of that entitys the status of existing EU case law.
In addition, the Group may incur significant unrealised gains or losses due to changes in the Groups Treasury and capital risk credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes affect the fair Potential for credit spread widening and reduced investor appetite for value of the Groups derivative instruments, debt securities that the Barclays debt issuance, which could negatively impact the cost of Group holds or issues, and loans held at fair value.
Potential for continued market volatility could affect interest rate risk in the banking book, as well as securities held by Barclays for liquidity purposes.
Changes in the long-term outlook for UK interest rates might also adversely affect UK Pension IAS19 liabilities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 139 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance i Deterioration in political and economic environment Interest rate increases in developed markets may also negatively impact emerging economies, as capital flows to mature markets to take The Groups performance is at risk from deterioration in the political and economic environment see also Business conditions, general economy advantage of the higher returns and strengthening economic fundamentals.
and geopolitical issues on page 137 which may result from a number of uncertainties, including the following: ii Specific sectors a Specific regions The Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and recovery rate of loans and advances due from borrowers and Adverse impacts on customers ability to service debt and may result in result in higher impairment charges for the Group.
Any deterioration in credit quality could lead to lower recoverability and higher impairment in a specific UK sector.
The following are areas of uncertainties to the Groups portfolio which could have a material impact on performance.
Following the EU referendum on 23 June 2016 see EU Referendum on page 139, the UK may experience a period of political and economic a UK property uncertainty throughout the negotiation period during which exit options are hard to fully and accurately predict.
The initial impact has been the With UK property representing a significant portion of the overall UK Corporate and Retail credit exposure, the Group is at risk from a fall in depreciation of Sterling resulting in higher costs for companies exposed to imports and a more favourable environment for exporters.
Rising property prices in both the residential and commercial sectors in the UK.
Strong house price growth in London and the South East of the UK, domestic costs resulting from higher import prices may impact household incomes and the affordability of consumer loans and home fuelled by foreign investment, strong buy-to-let BTL demand and subdued housing supply, has resulted in affordability metrics becoming loans.
In turn this may affect businesses dependent on consumers for revenue.
There has also been a reduction in activity in both commercial stretched.
Average house prices as at the end of 2016 were more than 7.9 times average earnings.
and residential real estate markets which has the potential to impact value.
However, the recent EU referendum has had a negative impact on home loan applications due to the increased uncertainty in the UK housing US market, with ongoing concerns regarding the potential for falling house A significant proportion of the Groups portfolio is located in the US, prices, particularly in London and the South East.
Further, a weakening including a major credit card portfolio and a range of corporate and economy would impact the home loan portfolio as costs rise off the back investment banking exposures.
Stress in the US economy, weakening of higher interest rates and customers are impacted by inflationary GDP, rising unemployment and or an increase in interest rates could lead affordability pressures.
Potential losses would likely be most pronounced to increased levels of impairment.
in the higher Loan to Value LTV segments as falling house prices lead to higher impairment and negative capital impact as loss given default Emerging Markets LGD rates increase.
Slower growth in China continues to affect a number of emerging economies, particularly those with high fiscal deficits and those reliant b Natural resources on short-term external financing and or material reliance on commodity Despite limited recovery in oil and commodities prices, the risk of losses exports.
Their vulnerability has been further impacted by the fall, and and increased impairment is more pronounced where leverage is higher, sustained volatility in oil prices, the strong US Dollar and the winding or in sectors currently subject to strain, notably oil and gas, mining and down of quantitative easing policies by some central banks.
The impact metals and commodities.
Sustained oil price depression from its recent on the Group may vary depending on the vulnerabilities present in each high continues and is driven by ongoing global excess supply.
The country, but the impact may result in increased impairment charges positioning of these portfolios focuses on investment grade customers through sovereign defaults, or the inability or unwillingness of clients or collateralised positions.
Continued stress in this market does have the and counterparties in that country to meet their debt obligations.
potential to further increase credit losses and impairment where a decline in the value of oil impacts both customer revenue and the value South Africa of our underlying collateral.
The negative economic outlook in South Africa continues, with a challenging domestic and external economic environment and ongoing c Large single name losses political uncertainty.
Real GDP growth remains low resulting in these The Group has large individual exposures to single name counterparties.
domestic and global factors impacting credit quality across our The default of such counterparties could have a significant impact on portfolios.
In the retail sector, concerns remain over the level of the carrying value of these assets.
In addition, where such counterparty consumer indebtedness and affordability, particularly as interest rates risk has been mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk may remain high if rise.
the collateral held cannot be realised, or has to be liquidated at prices which are insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative b Interest rate rises, including as a result of slowing of monetary exposure.
Any such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the stimulus, could impact consumer debt affordability and corporate Groups results due to, for example, increased credit losses and higher profitability impairment charges.
To the extent that central banks increase interest rates in certain developed markets, particularly in our main markets, the UK and the US, d Leverage finance underwriting they are expected to be small and gradual in scale during 2017, albeit The Group takes on significant sub-investment grade underwriting following differing timetables.
Recent increases in interest rates occurred exposure, including single name risk, particularly in the US and Europe.
in the US with a 0.25% rise in December 2015 and the same rise in The Group is exposed to credit events and market volatility during the December 2016.
Whilst further increases may support Group income, underwriting period.
Any adverse events during this period may future interest rate increases, if larger or more frequent than potentially result in loss for the Group or an increased capital expectations, could cause stress in the loan portfolio and underwriting requirement should there be a need to hold the exposure for an activity of the Group.
This would be particularly applicable to nonextended period.
investment grade lending, leading to the possibility of the Group incurring higher impairment.
Higher credit losses driving an increased impairment allowance would most notably impact retail unsecured and secured portfolios as a result of a reduction in recoverability and value of the Groups assets, coupled with a decline in collateral values.
140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Additional prudential requirements may also arise from other regulatory Market risk reforms, including UK, EU and US proposals on bank structural reform The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value and current proposals for Minimum Requirement for own funds and of the firms assets and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables Eligible Liabilities MREL under the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity Directive BRRD.
Included within these reforms are the Bank of prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and Englands latest responses to consultation and statement of policy on asset correlations.
MREL requirements for UK banks which were published in November 2016 and which remain subject to further changes.
Increased uncertainty across global markets from such factors as an unexpected slowdown in global economic growth, sudden changes in Many of the expected regulatory proposals are still subject to finalisation, monetary policy, unexpected foreign exchange volatility, especially if with calibration and timing of implementation still to be determined, and accompanied by a significant deterioration in the depth of marketplace there is potential for the impacts to be different from those originally liquidity emerging risk.
expected when in final form.
Overall, it is likely that these changes in law and regulation will have an impact on the Group as they are likely, when The trading business model is focused on client facilitation in wholesale implemented, to require changes to the legal entity structure of the financial markets, ranging from underwriting of debt and equity on Group and how businesses are capitalised and funded.
Any such behalf of issuers, to acting as a market maker in exchange-traded and increased prudential requirements may also constrain the Groups over the counter products, to providing risk management solutions.
planned activities, require balance sheet reductions and could increase The Groups trading business is generally adversely exposed to a the Groups costs, impact the Groups earnings and restrict the Groups prolonged period of elevated asset price volatility, particularly if it ability to pay dividends.
Moreover, if combined with a period of market negatively affects the depth of marketplace liquidity.
Such a scenario dislocation or when there is significant competition for the type of could impact the Groups ability to execute client trades and may also funding that the Group needs, it may be more difficult and or costly to result in lower client flow-driven income and or market-based losses on increase the Groups capital resources.
its existing portfolio of market risks.
These can include having to absorb higher hedging costs from rebalancing risks that need to be managed ii Inability to manage liquidity and funding risk effectively dynamically as market levels and their associated volatilities change.
Failure to manage its liquidity and funding risk effectively may result in the Group either not having sufficient financial resources to meet its payment obligations as they fall due or, although solvent, only being able Treasury and capital risk to meet these obligations at excessive cost.
This could cause the Group The risk that the Group may not achieve its business plans because to fail to meet regulatory liquidity standards, be unable to support of the availability of planned liquidity, a shortfall in capital or a day-to-day banking activities, or no longer be a going concern.
mismatch in the interest rate exposures of its assets and liabilities.
iii Credit rating changes and the impact on funding costs The Group may not be able to achieve its business plans due to: i being A credit rating assesses the creditworthiness of the Group, its unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios: ii being unable to meet its subsidiaries and branches, and is based on reviews of a broad range of obligations as they fall due: iii rating agency downgrades: iv adverse business and financial attributes including risk management processes changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios: v negative interest and procedures, capital strength, asset quality, earnings, funding, rates: and vi adverse movements in the pension fund.
Any adverse event to one or more of these attributes may lead to a downgrade, which in turn could result i Inability to maintain appropriate prudential ratios in contractual outflows to meet contractual requirements on existing Should the Group be unable to maintain or achieve appropriate capital contracts.
Furthermore, outflows related to a multiple-notch credit rating ratios this could lead to: an inability to support business activity: a failure downgrade are included in the LRA stress scenarios and a portion of the to meet regulatory capital requirements including any additional capital liquidity pool is held against this risk.
There is a risk that any potential add-ons or the requirements set for regulatory stress tests: increased downgrades could impact the Groups performance should borrowing cost of funding due to deterioration in investor appetite or credit ratings: cost and liquidity change significantly versus expectations or the credit restrictions on distributions including the ability to meet dividend spreads of the Group be negatively affected.
targets: and or the need to take additional measures to strengthen the Groups capital or leverage position.
While the requirements in CRD IV For further information, please refer to Credit Ratings in the Liquidity are now in force in the UK, further changes to regulatory capital Risk Performance section on page 219. requirements could occur, whether as a result of: i further changes to EU legislation for example, expected implementation of Bank of iv Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios International Settlements BIS regulatory update recommendations The Group has capital resources, risk weighted assets and leverage through CRD V, etc : ii relevant binding regulatory technical standards exposures denominated in foreign currencies.
Changes in foreign updates by the European Banking Authority EBA : iii changes to UK currency exchange rates may adversely impact the Sterling equivalent legislation: iv changes to PRA rules: v additional capital requirements value of these items.
As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are through Financial Policy Committee FPC recommendations: or vi sensitive to foreign currency movements, and any failure to appropriately changes to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Such manage the Groups balance sheet to take account of foreign currency changes, either individually and or in aggregate, may lead to further movements could result in an adverse impact on regulatory capital and unexpected additional requirements in relation to the Groups regulatory leverage ratios.
For example, during 2016, the European Commission proposed substantial changes to the CRD IV framework including CRR in line with  standards.
These include changes to the regulatory definition of trading activity, standardised and advanced RWA calculation methodologies for market risk and new standardised RWA rules for counterparty credit risk.
The proposal also includes phase-in arrangements for the regulatory capital impact of IFRS9 and the ongoing interaction of IFRS9 with the regulatory framework.
The Basel Committee has continued its post-crisis work on RWA and leverage reform.
Further standards are expected during the course of 2017 on RWAs for credit risk and operational risk, limitations on the use of internal models for RWA purposes and possible floors based on standardised RWAs.
The implementation timeframe for these changes is not yet certain.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 141 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance v Negative interest rates ii Infrastructure and technology resilience The failure of the Groups and its suppliers technology infrastructures A fall in interest rates leading to an environment with negative nominal interest rates would adversely impact Group profitability as retail and remain a material risk driver for the Group.
The increased use of technologies to support business strategy, and customer and client corporate business income would decrease due to margin compression.
This is because the significant reduction in asset income would not be demand, means any failures will be felt more immediately and with greater impact.
offset by a reduction in cost in liabilities due to the presence of a floor in our customer deposit and savings rates which are typically set at Failure to adequately manage resilience in our technologies, real-estate, positive level of rates.
and business and suppliers processes, may result in disruption to normal service which could in turn result in significant customer vi Adverse movements in the pension fund detriment, cost to reimburse losses incurred by our customers, potential Adverse movements between pension assets and liabilities for defined regulatory censure or penalty, and reputational damage.
benefit pension schemes could contribute to a pension deficit.
The liabilities discount rate is a key driver and, in accordance with iii Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees International Financial Reporting Standards IAS 19, is derived from the The Group requires a diverse mix of highly skilled and qualified yields of high quality corporate bonds deemed to be those with AA colleagues to deliver its strategy and so is dependent on attracting and ratings and consequently includes exposure to both risk-free yields and retaining appropriately qualified and experienced individuals.
Therefore, the Groups defined benefits scheme valuation ability to attract and retain such talent is impacted by a range of external would be adversely affected by a prolonged fall in the discount rate or a and internal factors.
persistent low rate and or credit spread environment.
Inflation is another External regulation such as the introduction of the Individual significant risk driver to the pension fund, as the liabilities are adversely impacted by an increase in long-term inflation expectations.
However in Accountability Regime and the required deferral and claw back provisions of our compensation arrangements may make Barclays a less the long term, inflation and rates risk tend to be negatively correlated and therefore partially offset each other.
attractive proposition relative to both our international competitors and other industries.
Similarly, the impact of the planned exit of the UK from the EU could potentially have an impact on our ability to hire and retain Operational risk key employees.
The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes or Failure to attract or prevent the departure of appropriately qualified systems, human factors or due to external events for example employees who are dedicated to overseeing and managing current and fraud where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
future regulatory standards and expectations, or who have the The Group is exposed to many types of operational risk.
These include: necessary skills required to deliver the Group strategy, could negatively fraudulent and other internal and external criminal activities: breakdowns impact our financial performance, control environment, level of in processes, controls or procedures or their inadequacy relative to the employee engagement and may result in disruption to service which size and scope of the Groups business : systems failures or an attempt could in turn lead to customer detriment and reputational damage.
by an external party to make a service or supporting technological infrastructure unavailable to its intended users, known as a denial of iv Tax risk service attack: and the risk of geopolitical cyber threat activity which The Group is required to comply with the domestic and international tax destabilises or destroys the Groups information technology, or critical laws and practice of all countries in which it has business operations.
technological infrastructure the Group depends upon but does not There is a risk that the Group could suffer losses due to additional tax control.
The Group is also subject to the risk of business disruption charges, other financial costs or reputational damage as a result of arising from events wholly or partially beyond its control, for example failing to comply with such laws and practice or by failing to manage its natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics and transport or utility tax affairs in an appropriate manner.
The Group also faces emerging failures, which may give rise to losses or reductions in service to risks from domestic and international tax developments.
For example, customers and or economic loss to the Group.
All of these risks are also the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project, and the applicable where the Group relies on outside suppliers or vendors to implementation of its recommendations into domestic law in countries provide services to it and its customers.
The operational risks that the around the world, has the potential to significantly increase the Group is exposed to could change rapidly and there is no guarantee that compliance burden on the Group, as well as to increase the incidence of the Groups processes, controls, procedures and systems are sufficient to double taxation on the Group as a result of different countries adopting address, or could adapt promptly to, such changing risks to avoid the different interpretations and approaches to the BEPS recommendations.
v Critical accounting estimates and judgements i Cyber risk The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires The risk posed by cyber attacks is growing, with financial institutions the use of estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement being a primary target of increasingly capable cyber crime groups, as in applying relevant accounting policies.
The key areas involving a higher demonstrated by sophisticated targeted attacks against global payment degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are networks throughout 2016.
The increased maturity of online significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements marketplaces for criminal services and stolen data has reduced barriers include provisions for conduct and legal, competition and regulatory to entry for criminals perpetrating financial attacks which carry high matters, fair value of financial instruments, credit impairment charges reward and low risk of law enforcement prosecution.
for amortised cost assets, impairment and valuation of available for sale investments, and accounting for pensions and post-retirements benefits.
The cyber threat increases the inherent risk to the Groups data whether There is a risk that if the judgement exercised, or the estimates or it is held by the Group or in its supply chain, to the integrity of financial assumptions used, subsequently turn out to be incorrect, this could transactions of the Group, its clients, counterparties and customers, and result in significant loss to the Group, beyond what was anticipated or to the availability of the Groups services.
Failure to adequately manage provided for.
this risk, and to continually review and update processes, could result in increased fraud losses, inability to perform critical economic functions, customer detriment, potential regulatory censure and penalty, legal liability and reputational damage.
142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information As part of the assets in the Non-Core business, the Group holds a UK Conduct risk portfolio of generally longer-term loans to counterparties in Education, The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, Social Housing and Local Authorities ESHLA sectors, which are competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial measured on a fair value basis.
The valuation of this portfolio is subject services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
to substantial uncertainty due to the long-dated nature of the portfolios, the lack of a secondary market in the relevant loans and unobservable Barclays is committed to ensuring that positive customer and client loan spreads.
As a result of these factors, the Group may be required to outcomes and protecting market integrity are integral to the way the revise the fair values of these portfolios to reflect, among other things, firm operates.
This includes taking reasonable steps to ensure our changes in valuation methodologies due to changes in industry culture and strategy are appropriately aligned to these objectives: our valuation practices and as further market evidence is obtained in products and services are reasonably designed and delivered to meet connection with the Non-Core asset run-off and exit process.
For further the needs of our customers and clients, as well as maintaining the fair information refer to Note 18 Fair value of financial instruments of the and orderly operation of the markets in which we do business.
Certain other risks referenced herein may result in detriment to The further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS customers, clients and market integrity if not managed effectively.
These could also significantly impact the financial results, condition and include but are not limited to: cyber risk: infrastructure and technology prospects of the Group.
resilience: ability to hire and retain qualified people: outsourcing: data quality: operational precision and payments: regulatory change: vi Outsourcing structural reform: change and execution risk: and the exit of the UK from The Group depends on suppliers for the provision of many of our the EU.
services, though the Group continues to be accountable for risk arising from the actions of such suppliers.
Failure to monitor and control our i Execution of strategic divestment in Non-Core businesses suppliers could potentially lead to client information, or our critical As Barclays executes strategic decisions to exit products, businesses or infrastructures and services, not being adequately protected.
countries, the firm must consider and mitigate any potential detriment to customers, clients and market integrity.
There is a risk some The dependency on suppliers and sub-contracting of outsourced customers and clients may have reduced market access and a limited services introduces concentration risk where the failure of specific choice of alternative providers, or transitions to alternate providers could suppliers could have an impact on our ability to continue to provide cause disruptions.
There is also a risk the firms strategic divestments services that are material to the Group.
may impact market liquidity or result in adverse pricing movements.
In Failure to adequately manage outsourcing risk could result in increased connection with any country exits, there is a risk that any ongoing losses, inability to perform critical economic functions, customer cross-border activities into those countries are not conducted in detriment, potential regulatory censure and penalty, legal liability and accordance with local laws and regulations.
The crystallisation of any of reputational damage.
these risks could cause detriment to customers, clients and market integrity, as well as regulatory sanctions, financial loss and reputational vii Data quality damage.
The quality of the data used in models across Barclays has a material impact on the accuracy and completeness of our risk and financial ii Product governance and sales practices metrics.
The evolution of complex modelling underpinning risk decisions, Effective product governance, including design, approval and periodic forecasting and capital calculations, demands greater precision in our review of products, and appropriate controls over various internal and data.
Failure to manage data standards accordingly may have a material third-party sales channels are critical to ensuring positive outcomes for adverse effect on the quality of our risk management.
In particular, Barclays must ensure that its remuneration practices and performance management framework are viii Operational precision and payments designed to prevent conflicts of interest and inappropriate sales The risk of material errors in operational processes, including payments, incentives.
Failure of product governance and sales controls could result are exacerbated during the present period of significant levels of in the sale of products and services that fail to meet the needs of, or are structural and regulatory change, the evolving technology landscape, unsuitable for, customers and clients, regulatory sanctions, financial loss and a transition to digital channel capabilities.
Material operational or payment errors could disadvantage our iii Trading controls and benchmark submissions customers, clients or counterparties and could result in regulatory Maintaining controls over trading activities and benchmark submissions censure and penalties, legal liability and reputational damage.
is critical to ensuring the trust of our customers, clients and other market participants.
These controls must be designed to ensure Model risk compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, as well as to prevent market manipulation, unauthorised trading and inadvertent The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial errors.
A failure of these controls could result in detriment to customers assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model and clients, disruptions to market integrity, regulatory sanctions, financial outputs and reports.
The risk of failure could be enhanced by Barclays uses models to support a broad range of business and risk the changes necessary to address various new regulations, including but management activities, including informing business decisions and not limited to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II.
strategies, measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, supporting new business iv Financial Crime acceptance and risk reward evaluation, managing client assets, or The management of Financial Crime remains a key area of regulatory meeting reporting requirements.
Delivering a robust control environment to ensure that the Bank effectively manages the risks of Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing, Models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, and so Sanctions and Bribery and Corruption protects the Bank, its customers they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their outputs.
and its employees, as well as society at large, from the negative effects Models may also be misused.
Model errors or misuse may result in the of financial crime.
Failure to maintain an effective control environment Group making inappropriate business decisions and being subject to may lead to regulatory sanctions, financial loss and reputational damage.
financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk and or inadequate capital reporting.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 143 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance v Data protection and privacy Groups conduct, this may also give rise to legal proceedings, including The proper handling of data and protection of data privacy is critical to class actions.
Other legal disputes may also arise between the Group developing trust and sustaining long-term relationships with our and third parties relating to matters such as breaches, enforcement of customers and clients.
Inadequate protection of data including data legal rights or obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common held and managed by third party suppliers could lead to security law.
Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Group being compromise, data loss, financial loss and other potential detriment to liable to third parties seeking damages, or may result in the Groups our customers and clients, as well as regulatory sanctions, financial loss rights not being enforced as intended.
The risk of failure could be enhanced by the Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Group changes necessary to address various new regulations, including but not is currently exposed are set out in Note 29 legal, competition and limited to the EU Data Protection Initiative.
In addition to matters specifically described in Note 29, the Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings in the UK vi Regulatory focus on culture and accountability and US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions which arise in the Various regulators around the world have emphasised the importance of ordinary course of business.
The Group is also subject to requests for culture and personal accountability in helping to ensure appropriate information, investigations and other reviews by regulators, conduct and drive positive outcomes for customers, clients and markets governmental and other public bodies in connection with business integrity.
Regulatory changes such as the new UK Senior Managers activities in which the Group is or has been engaged.
The Group is Regime and Conduct Rules coming into effect in 2017, along with similar keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these regulations in other jurisdictions, will require Barclays to enhance its matters on an ongoing basis.
In light of the uncertainties involved in organisational and operational governance to evidence its effective legal, competition and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance management of culture and accountability.
Failure to meet these new that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material to requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, the Groups results of operations or cash flow for a particular period, financial loss and reputational damage.
depending on, amongst other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter s and the amount of income otherwise reported for the Reputation risk period.
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to trust in the firms integrity and competence by clients, which the Group is currently exposed and any others which may arise in counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
the future, is difficult to predict.
However, in connection with such matters the Group may incur significant expense, regardless of the Climate change, human rights and support for the defence sector ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose the Group to any Any one transaction, investment or event that, in the perception of key of the following: substantial monetary damages and or fines: stakeholders reduces their trust in the firms integrity and competence, remediation of affected customers and clients: other penalties and may have the potential to give rise to risk to Barclays reputation.
injunctive relief: additional litigation: criminal prosecution in certain Barclays association with sensitive sectors is often an area of concern circumstances: the loss of any existing agreed protection from for stakeholders and the following topics have been of particular interest: prosecution: regulatory restrictions on the Groups business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations: increased regulatory 2 Fossil fuels: As the Paris agreement on CO emissions comes into force, compliance requirements: suspension of operations: public reprimands: banks are coming under increased pressure from civil society, loss of significant assets or business: a negative effect on the Groups shareholders and potentially national governments regarding the reputation: loss of investor confidence and or dismissal or resignation of management and disclosure of their climate risks and opportunities, key individuals.
including the activities of certain sections of their client base: In January 2017, Barclays PLC was sentenced to serve three years of Human Trafficking: The UK Modern Slavery Act came into force in probation from the date of the sentencing order in accordance with the October 2015 and with the scrutiny of global business investments terms of its May 2015 plea agreement with the DOJ.
During the term of rising, the risks of association with human rights violations are growing probation Barclays PLC must, amongst other things, i commit no crime within the banking sector, through the perceived indirect involvement in whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, ii implement and human rights abuses committed by clients and customers.
Campaigners continue to implement a compliance programme designed to prevent have been seeking to hold all parties in the value chain to account for and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement and iii environmental and human rights violations where they occur: and strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required by relevant Defence Sector: Supporting the manufacture and export of military and regulatory or enforcement agencies.
Potential consequences of riot control goods and services continues to require significant review breaching the plea agreement include the imposition of additional terms internally in order to ensure compliance with all relevant requirements and conditions on the Group, an extension of the agreement, or the and to avoid reputational damage.
criminal prosecution of Barclays PLC, which could, in turn, entail further financial penalties and collateral consequences and have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, operating results or financial Legal risk position.
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the There is also a risk that the outcome of any legal, competition or failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or regulatory matters in which the Group is involved may give rise to contractual requirements.
changes in law or regulation as part of a wider response by relevant law Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines and other sanctions makers and regulators.
A decision in any matter, either against the relating to conduct of business and breaches of legislation and or Group or another financial institution facing similar claims, could lead to regulations may negatively affect the Groups results, reputation and further claims against the Group.
ability to conduct its business.
The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated global market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions relating to the conduct of its business.
In recent years authorities have increasingly investigated past practices, pursued alleged breaches and imposed heavy penalties on financial services firms.
This trend is expected to continue.
A breach of applicable legislation and or regulations could result in the Group or its staff being subject to criminal prosecution, regulatory censure, fines and other sanctions in the jurisdictions in which it operates, particularly in the UK and the US.
Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the 144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
