Strategic Report Managing Our Risks We are committed to effective risk Managing management in support of delivery of our strategic objectives.
Our Risks Our risk management process is designed to improve the likelihood of delivering our business objectives, protect the interests of our shareholders and key stakeholders and enhance the quality of our decision-making through the awareness of risk-assessed outcomes.
It also assists in the safeguarding of our assets, including people, finances, property and reputation.
We are committed to conducting business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and in a manner that is consistent with our values.
Risk Governance Accountability for monitoring Structure The Board Audit and Risk Committee Responsible for our system of Corporate Responsible for reviewing and approving Governance and overseeing execution the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk of our strategy: risk management and management and internal controls.
Executive Management Committee Responsible for setting strategic direction, executing strategic decisions and implementing an effective corporate risk management system.
Business Divisions Audit function Chief Risk Officer Responsible for identifying, assessing and Reviews and reports Reports on key risks managing risks within their business subject on the system of and risk mitigation.
to Group risk appetite internal control.
Company Risk Map Risk Register & Divisional Risk Maps Management teams in business units review risks through self-assessment methodology and develop risk registers which, together with risk maps that are developed from the risk registers, are submitted to the Executive Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee on a bi-annual basis.
Responsibility for implementing 22 22 Strategic Report Managing Our Risks BBA Aviations risk mitigation strategy and risk appetite are matters Group policies, standards and internal controls, together with that are overseen by the Board, with the support of the Audit and our Values and our focus on safety, underpin our approach to risk Risk Committee, which manages the processes that underpin risk management.
We are committed to being a responsible values-led assessment and our systems of internal control.
business and our leaders are responsible for embedding this into BBA Aviations culture, our decision-making and how we work.
How we manage risk across BBA Aviation Our employees are accountable for working to established standards The Board has established a framework for assessing risk in the and for identifying and escalating encountered risks so that they can context of likelihood and impact in financial and reputational terms.
The Group has comprehensive training Each risk within the Group is assessed against this framework and the programmes to ensure that employees are appropriately trained in Board reassesses its risk appetite on a bi-annual basis when risk BBA Aviations ethics policies.
maps are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Risk Management Process The key features of our risk management process are set out below: Business Objectives Our business objectives are established on a five year basis and drive our annual objectives Bi-Annual Risk Annual Key & Emerging Board, Executive Assessment Process Risks Identification Committee Review Strategic Plan Progress is monitored at Development & Update global, divisional and business Our strategy informs the levels and risks assessed on setting of shorter-term an ongoing basis as part of objectives across the Group and the business review and risk is widely communicated.
Ongoing Key Risk Strategic Risk management process.
Monitoring Mitigation Portfolio & Investment Decisions Portfolio and investment decisions are made based on resource constraints and risk reward profiles against our strategic objectives.
23 Strategic Report Managing Our Risks The bi-annual risk assessment process looks forward three years We continue to adopt a risk and controls-based approach and to create BBA Aviations risk profile.
These key Group-level risks are have improved our reporting to provide practical insight in executive input into the scenario modelling for the Viability Statement, which summaries to enable senior management to understand issues is explained further on page 79. quickly.
All audit findings are reported in terms of risk and impact, which is aligned with BBA Aviations Risk Model, and a structured follow-up Progress in 2016 process operates driven by action dates agreed collaboratively between During 2016 we have updated our Risk Management Framework Internal Audit and BBA Aviations management and overseen by and continued to develop the alignment between our Risk executive management.
Management and Internal Audit functions.
The risk assessment Our project management capability on major projects continues to process drives the internal audit scope, and the Chief Risk Officer improve.
For the carve-out and sale of the ASIG business we employed a and Head of Internal Audit attend Audit and Risk Committee specialist separation management consultancy to guide us through the meetings to provide regular updates.
planning process to ensure that we delivered an effective carve-out of We have improved the risk management process by: the ASIG business to John Menzies plc.
Improving the Risk Register so that risk cause is clearly identified and the mitigating control addresses the risk cause.
We also Principal Risks determine whether activity associated with every risk should be We have identified 11 principal risks and uncertainties facing BBA Treated, Tolerated, Transferred or Terminated which drives Aviation which are considered by the Board to be material to the deeper understanding of risk management within the business.
development, performance, position or future prospects of the Group.
A Deep Dive process has been introduced whereby we probe These risks, mitigations and changes during the year are summarised more deeply into risk areas to provide additional and more specific in the table below.
They are not set out in priority order.
We addressed Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Security risk areas during 2016.
Objective Risks Mitigation action Control Change during year Structural changes in the global Active monitoring of lead economic indicators.
Brexit and the US economic environment, or cycle election have caused Strong financial controls to monitor financial performance and fluctuations: some uncertainty in the provide a basis for corrective actionwhen required.
Growth drive down B&GA and commercial Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to meetdemand.
cause market wea kness in the ERO sector.
Global terrorist events either in-flight, Airport and internal access security processes, vetting Ongoing events continue at or near major airports materially ofpotential staff members in recruitment process.
Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to enable corrective action to be taken.
Legislative changes causing material Active participation in all relevant industry bodies.
Ongoing discussions increase to cost of B&GAflight relative regarding privatisation Ongoing monitoring of all US and EMEA political activity which to alternatives such as commercial of Air Traffic Control may impact B&GA activity.
Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to meetdemand.
Ongoing competitor activity to Active monitoring of competitor activity.
Purchase of Landmark replicate market position of Aviation created Strong financial controls to monitor financial performance.
24 24 Strategic Report Managing Our Risks Objective Risks Mitigation action Control Change during year Ability to attract and retain Succession planning process embedded with review high-quality and capable atExecutive Management Committee and Board people at senior and levelannually.
Remuneration structure designed to reward superior Optimisation performance and promote retention.
Proactive employee development and key talent retention processes.
Potential liabilities from defects Standard operating procedures with routine root in services and products.
Impact of a successful cyber attack.
Operation of a specialist Information Security team.
Increasing threat of cyber attacks draw Continual refreshment of firewalls and endpoint protection, focus as a major risk laptop encryption, mobile device management, intrusion protection, password policy, vulnerability and penetration testing, identity and security event management.
Intentional or inadvertent Clear values statement and ethical policies.
non-compliance with company Semi-annual compliance certification by all senior values and legislation, both management.
within BBA Aviation and with Rigorous third party vetting processes.
Robust internal control environment and regular reviewby internal and external audit.
Strong procedural controls and physical containment when working with fuel or other hazardous chemicals.
Active management of known environmental matters tominimise costs to resolve.
Non-compliance with banking Strong treasury management controls concerning liquidity Good progress made covenants caused by a tighter management.
regulatory environment around Rigorous third party vetting processes, which includes the sanctions compliance, which is a key compliance with sanctions regulations.
condition of our banking covenants.
Changes in tax regulation in both Timely compliance with all international tax requirements.
the USA and EMEA could impact Continuous monitoring of changes to tax legislation, oureffective tax rate and our taking advice where appropriate from reputable cash tax liabilities.
