Risk management Good design supports informed decisionmaking.
Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer Design of our risk management framework Given the beautifully designed theme of this years report and accounts, it is an opportune time to explain the key principles that were used in the design of the risk management framework: Simple and accessible: The first principle is that the risk management framework is simple to operate and easy to understand.
Without this, the framework would not be used widely and would be of little value to the board in overseeing the business.
It is true that simplicity is the ultimate form of sophistication: Risk coverage: The risk management framework covers the complete risk universe.
If the management of risk is restricted to say the top ten risks, it will inevitably be the eleventh or twelfth risks that cause problems: Relevant information: There is a balance to be sought in the calibration of the risk management information reported.
If the calibration is too sensitive, issues will be constantly reported and the board will struggle to distinguish between what is important and what is just background noise.
If the calibration is not sensitive enough, then the board will not have sight of the important issues and will incorrectly believe everything is fine.
At Beazley, the reporting is focussed on managing within the risk appetite established by the board: Consolidated view: The board receives a consolidated view free of unnecessary contradiction.
The consolidated assurance report at Beazley brings together the perspective of the business and the perspective of the assurance functions of compliance, risk management and internal audit in order to provide the board with a holistic view of the risk and control landscape.
In addition, the design of the risk management framework aligns with the way that internal audit undertake their reviews and report their findings: and Decision making: The risk management framework and its associated reports support informed decision making and help steer the business.
At Beazley, in addition to the consolidated assurance report, the suite of risk management reports range from thematic risk reviews to the regular and transactional Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA reports.
Good design should be intuitive and effortlessly achieve the desired outcome.
In 2016, we completed the first detailed review of the current design of the risk management framework since its implementation in 2010.
The result of this review has been just a few fine tuning adjustments as the framework has been demonstrated to be meeting these design principles over the past seven years and has coped well with the continued growth and evolution of the business.
2016 in review A key change to the risk environment in 2016 was the outcome of the UK referendum in June to leave the European Union.
A risk review had been performed prior to the vote in order to assess the potential impact of either outcome.
Given Beazleys insurance risk profile, the premium at risk if Lloyds licences were no longer to be applicable in Europe is relatively low at less than 5%.
Therefore, the main short term risks identified for Beazley were asset volatility and exchange rate fluctuations and steps were undertaken prior to the vote to mitigate these risks.
Our experience in the period since the referendum has shown that this assessment turned out to be correct and in particular, a weaker sterling has provided a tailwind for us as a dollar denominated company with sterling expenses and dollar profit which is worth more for sterling based investors.
Nevertheless, we have established a project team to oversee developments and support Lloyds activity to ensure that market participants can continue to trade in Europe in an efficient way.
More recently in November, another key change was the outcome of the US election which delivered a Republican Presidency, Senate and House of Representatives.
Given the importance of the US to Beazleys business, we are actively monitoring the risk environment and any emerging opportunities and risks to Beazleys US business as policies are implemented by the newly elected government.
Earlier in the year, the specialty lines division had embarked on developing Europe and the Rest of the World to complement existing distribution at Lloyds and in the US for its products.
This involved an application to change the Beazley Re dac licence in Ireland to include an insurance licence in addition to the existing reinsurance licence.
A secondary benefit of this application is to be able to offer insurance to our European clients in the event that a Lloyds licence cannot be utilised, or to provide our European clients with a choice of using either Lloyds security or locally capitalised security.
The risk management team undertook a transactional ORSA to provide assurance that the risk management framework will evolve appropriately as Beazleys Irish company starts to underwrite both insurance and reinsurance business.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management completed a transactional ORSA which considered the associated risks, including related to regulatory, legal and tax, arising from the transfer of management of the Beazley group from Dublin to London which was completed on 13 April 2016.
Another transactional ORSA was also written for the debt issuance that completed on 4 November 2016 which can be used to support underwriting opportunities from both the US and the specialty lines international initiative.
The challenging market conditions have remained a key risk for Beazley in 2016 and careful cycle management was required to navigate the classes of business experiencing the most rating pressure and to optimise the areas of opportunity.
The ability of Beazley underwriters to segment their classes and understand the relative risk and reward dynamics is a key way this risk is mitigated and members of the risk and capital teams have supported underwriting teams in this activity during 2016.
Premium from Beazleys market leading cyber product, Beazley Breach Response, continues to grow as new clients purchase this valuable and innovative product.
As planned, we have added to our suite of realistic disaster scenarios and have updated the assumptions of existing scenarios to reflect our current understanding of how an aggregated claims event might occur.
Given that we have yet to actually observe an aggregated claims event, there is little data available to assist with this modelling.
As such, we continue to use external technical expertise to supplement our own views of how such an event could unfold.
The scenarios are compared against the boards risk appetite to ensure that growth in this area remains appropriate within Beazleys diversified portfolio of other risk types.
It is clear that this area continues to evolve at a relatively fast pace which warrants such regular review and oversight.
Risk management facilitated a discussion of emerging and strategic risks at the board strategy day in May.
The discussion focused on four topics, namely: the commoditisation of insurance, disintermediation, being the last independent company at Lloyds and the impact of a global recession.
The analysis performed by board members and the ensuing discussion provided an opportunity to test how Beazleys strategy may have to evolve if these risks were to emerge.
An important element of risk managements role is to work with staff across the business to better understand the practical challenges facing our business.
During 2016, members of the risk management team visited Beazley offices in the US, Europe, and Asia to identify how we can improve what we do and to observe how the Beazley culture ensures our staff do the right thing.
In 2016 we had a number of employees take advantage of our sabbatical programme.
Risk management have supported the business to test that, where necessary, adjustments to roles and responsibilities are considered.
In addition to recognising a ten year career at Beazley, the sabbatical programme has also benefited teams and individuals supporting those on sabbatical with opportunities to expand their roles, challenge existing processes, and in some cases, reduce exposure to key personnel risk.
The risk management report to the remunerations committee is now in its sixth year.
The analysis reported confirmed that the design of remuneration at Beazley is driving appropriate behaviour.
The main enhancement made this year has been to review a suite of risk metrics in order to provide assurance that senior members of staff were managing risk in an appropriate manner.
This year represents the first year of operating within the new Solvency II regime with our internal model approved by the Central Bank of Ireland.
The extensive work undertaken by the capital modelling team in the pre-application stages to design how processes should operate has resulted in a robust yet efficient framework that delivers a valued capital model which is parametrised to reflect the reality of the business, is updated to reflect the evolution of the business, is validated to provide assurance that its design and parametrisation is appropriate and so is used across the group to support business processes and inform the board on how risk is changing.
We have continued to use an external consultancy to provide independent challenge which has supported the production of a detailed validation report to the board.
This report, coupled with a programme of regular and tailored director briefings ensure that the internal model is understood.
During 2016 we have welcomed new directors and have benefited from their fresh perspective on managing risk and capital to ensure that our approach remains fit for purpose in identifying, managing and mitigating risk we may face in the future.
Although risk appetite is established with reference to earnings volatility, there are a number of risks that do not necessarily have a direct financial consequence.
Instead, for example, there may be a reputational impact.
We have experienced this year that the qualitative risk appetite statements introduced in 2015 have helped business functions prioritise activity within their teams to ensure that necessary activity is undertaken in a timely manner in order to operate as the board expects.
The latest chief risk officer report to the board confirmed that the control environment has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in key processes and that Beazley is operating within risk appetite as at 31 December 2016. www.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 53 Risk management continued Risk management philosophy Beazleys risk management philosophy is to balance the risks the business takes on with the associated cost of controlling these risks, whilst also operating within the risk appetite agreed by the board.
In addition, our risk management processes are designed to continuously monitor our risk profile against risk appetite and to exploit opportunities as they arise.
Risk management strategy The Beazley plc board has delegated executive oversight of the risk management department to the executive committee, which in turn has delegated immediate oversight to the risk and regulatory committee.
The Beazley plc board has also delegated oversight of the risk management framework to the audit and risk committee and the primary regulated subsidiary boards have each established a board risk committee.
Clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities are in place for the management of risks and controls, and all employees are aware of the role they play in all aspects of the risk management process, from identifying sources of risk to their part in the control environment.
The impact of each risk is recorded in the risk register on a 1:10 likelihood of that risk manifesting in the next 12 months.
A risk owner has been assigned responsibility for each risk, and it is the responsibility of that individual to periodically assess the impact of the risk and to ensure appropriate risk mitigation procedures are in place.
External factors facing the business and the internal controls in place are routinely reassessed and changes are made when necessary.
On an annual basis, the board agrees the risk appetite for each risk event and this is documented in the risk management framework document.
The residual financial impact is managed in a number of ways, including: mitigating the impact of the risk through the application of controls: transferring or sharing risk through outsourcing and purchasing insurance and reinsurance: and tolerating risk in line with the risk appetite.
In addition, the following risk management principles have been adopted: risk management is a part of the wider governance environment: techniques employed are fit for purpose and proportionate to the business: risk management is a core capability for all employees: risk management is embedded in day-to-day activities: there is a culture of risk awareness, in which risks are identified, assessed and managed: risk management processes are robust and supported by verifiable management information: and risk management information and reporting is timely, clear, accurate and appropriately escalated.
Risk management framework Beazley has adopted the three lines of defence framework: namely business risk management, the risk management function and the internal audit function.
Within business risk management, there are two defined risk and control roles: risk owner and control reporter.
Each risk event is owned by the risk owner who is a senior member of staff.
Risk owners, supported by the risk management team, formally perform a risk assessment twice a year, including an assessment of heightened and emerging risks.
Business risk management Risk management Internal audit Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board Monitors risk Reports to committees and board Records status Remediates when required The risk management framework comprises a number of risk management components, which when added together describe how risk is managed on a day to day basis.
The framework includes a risk register that captures the risk universe 55 risk events grouped into eight risk categories: insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal, group and strategic, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board, and the control environment that is operated by the business to remain within the risk appetite.
The following diagram illustrates the components of the risk management framework.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario framework Risk profiles Strategic and emerging risk annual biannual annual ad hoc annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Committees Risk incidents Consolidated assurance reporting report 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, Operations, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards In summary, the board identifies risk, assesses risk and sets risk appetite.
The business then implements a control environment which describes how the business should operate to stay within risk appetite.
Risk management then reports to the board on how well the business is operating using a consolidated assurance report.
For each risk, the consolidated assurance report brings together a view of how successfully the business is managing risk, qualitative commentary from the assurance functions and whether there have been any events that we can learn from risk incidents.
Finally, the framework is continually improved, through the consideration of stress and scenario testing, themed reviews using risk profiles and an assessment of strategic and emerging risks.
A suite of risk management reports are provided to the boards and committees to assist senior management and board members to discharge their oversight and decision making responsibilities.
The risk reports include the risk appetite statement, the consolidated assurance report, risk profiles, stress and scenario testing, reverse stress testing, an emerging and strategic report, a report to the remuneration committee and the ORSA report.
The internal audit function considers the risk management framework in the development of its audit universe to determine its annual risk-based audit plan.
The plan is based on, among other inputs, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
Finally, a feedback loop operates, with recommendations from the internal audit reviews being assessed by the business and the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
Viability statement The directors have completed a robust assessment of the viability of the group over a three year period.
A period of three future years has been selected to be short enough to be reasonably assessable but long enough to reflect Beazleys risk profile of a portfolio of diversified short-tailed and medium-tailed insurance liabilities.
This three year period also aligns with the length of time over which business underwritten at Lloyds, being the majority of our insurance business, is managed.
The board has performed an annual risk assessment and the key risks to the group in the future are summarised on pages 56 and 57.
The risks and associated capital requirements have been brought together into a five year plan.
The main assumption is that the current market conditions will prevail, over which the outcomes of the boards strategic initiatives are overlaid.
In addition, the board has reviewed the sensitivity of key assumptions and has performed scenario testing to understand the impact on cashflows of the key risks of a major natural catastrophe and or a systemic mispricing of the medium-tailed liability classes.
The Chief Risk Officer provides a quarterly own risk and solvency assessment ORSA to the board summarising the short term and longer term risks to the group and the capital implications.
The directors have concluded, based on this review, that there is a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 55 Risk management continued The risks to financial performance The board monitors and manages risks grouped into eight Reserve risk: Beazley has a consistent and conservative categories, which cover the universe of risk that could affect reserving philosophy.
However, there is a risk that the reserves Beazley.
There have been no new risk areas identified and put aside for expected losses turn out to be insufficient.
no major shifts in existing risks.
The board considers the This could be due to any of the three drivers of risk described following two risk categories to be the most significant.
The group uses a range of techniques to mitigate this risk including a detailed reserving process which compares, Insurance risk claim by claim, estimates established by the claims team with Given the nature of Beazleys business, the key risks that a top down statistical view developed by the actuarial team.
impact financial performance arise from insurance activities.
A suite of metrics is also used to ensure consistency each year.
The main insurance risks can be summarised in the following Single risk losses: Given the size of policy limits offered categories: on each risk, it is unlikely that the poor performance of Market cycle risk: The risk of systematic mispricing of the one policy will have a material impact on the groups financial medium tailed specialty lines business which could arise performance.
due to a change in the US tort environment, changes to the supply and demand of capital, and companies using Strategic risk incomplete data to make decisions.
This risk would affect Alongside these insurance risks, the success of the group multiple classes within the specialty lines division across depends on the execution of an appropriate strategy.
The main a number of underwriting years.
The group uses a range strategic risks can be summarised as follows: of techniques to mitigate this risk including sophisticated Strategic decisions: The groups performance would be pricing tools, analysis of macro trends, analysis of claim affected in the event of making strategic decisions that frequency and the expertise of our experienced do not add value.
The group mitigates this risk through underwriters and claims managers.
the combination of recommendations and challenge from Natural catastrophe risk: The risk of one or more large non-executive directors, debate at the executive committee events caused by nature affecting a number of policies and input from the strategy and performance group a group and therefore giving rise to multiple losses.
Given of approximately 35 senior individuals from across different Beazleys risk profile, this could be a hurricane, major disciplines at Beazley.
This risk is monitored using Environment: There is a risk that the chosen strategy cannot exposure management techniques to ensure that the risk be executed because of the current environmental conditions and reward are appropriate and that the exposure is not within which Beazley operates, thereby delaying the timing of overly concentrated in one area.
Non natural catastrophe risk: This risk is similar to natural Communication: Having the right strategy and environment catastrophe risk except that multiple losses arise from is of little value if it is not communicated internally so that the one event caused by mankind.
Given Beazleys risk profile, whole group is heading in the same direction, or if key examples include a coordinated cyber attack, an act of external stakeholders are not aware of Beazleys progress terrorism, an act of war or a political event.
This risk is against its strategy.
monitored using exposure management techniques to ensure that the risk and reward are appropriate and that the exposure is not overly concentrated in one area.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Senior management performance: There is a risk that senior Other risks management is overstretched or does not perform, which The remaining six risk categories monitored by the board are: would have a detrimental impact on the groups performance.
Market asset risk: This is the risk that the value of The performance of the senior management team is investments is adversely impacted by movements in monitored by the CEO and talent management team and interest rates, exchange rates, default rates or external overseen by the nomination committee.
This risk is monitored by the investment Reputation: Although reputational risk is a consequential committee.
risk, i. e. it emerges upon the occurrence of another risk Operational risk: This risk is the failure of people, manifesting, it has the potential to have a significant processes and systems or the impact of an external event impact on an organisation.
Beazley expects its staff to on Beazleys operations, and is monitored by the act honourably one of seven ingredients of Being Beazley operations committee.
Credit risk: Beazley has credit risk to its reinsurers, brokers Flight risk: There is a risk that Beazley is unable to deliver its and coverholders of which the reinsurance asset is the strategy due to the loss of key personnel.
The underwriting committee monitors this risk.
in place to identify and monitor this risk, for example, through succession planning.
Regulatory and legal risk: This is the risk that Beazley does not operate in line with the relevant regulatory Crisis management: This is the risk caused by the destabilising framework in the territories where it operates.
Of the effect of the group having to deal with a crisis and is mitigated eight risk categories, the board has the lowest tolerance by having a detailed crisis management plan.
This risk is monitored by the risk and Corporate transaction: There is a risk that Beazley undertakes regulatory committee.
a corporate transaction which does not return the expected Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the group does not value to shareholders.
This risk is mitigated through the due have sufficient liquid funds following a catastrophic diligence performed, the financial structure of transactions event.
The investment committee monitors this risk which, and the implementation activity.
given the nature of the asset portfolio, is currently small.
Under the environmental risk heading, the board identifies and Group risk: The structure of the Beazley group is not analyses emerging and strategic risk on an annual basis for complex and so the main group risk is that one group discussion at the board strategy day in May.
entity operates to the detriment of another group entity or entities.
Although this risk is currently small, the Beazley plc board monitors this risk through the reports it receives from each entity.
