STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management We have a long-established and effective pp improve the balance of risk and return Risk management roles framework for managing risks.
It is the through developing and maintaining and responsibilities responsibility of management across the aproactive, risk aware culture: Risk management is the responsibility of every Group to implement the Boards policies pp ensure there is a consistent approach for employee.
In undertaking their individual roles onrisk and internal control.
the identification, assessment, control, and responsibilities, employees are assisting Our risk management objectives are to: monitoring, follow up and reporting of risks: in managing risk.
Specific to our detailed risk management policy and processes, roles and pp develop and implement action plans so as pp assess risks against an agreed appetite responsibilities are: forrisk, which is regularly reviewed: to ensure that risks are within our agreed risk appetite and that improvements are pp ensure risk management roles and made to our control environment: responsibilities are defined and understood: pp ensure the approach to risk management meets the needs of the business, senior management and all key stakeholders.
The Audit Board: Committee: Overall responsibility for Oversee risk management policy, riskmanagement.
Review, challenge and approve Receive routine risk reports and utilise the risk management policy risk information to review and approve and corresponding processes assurance plans and priorities.
Provide assurance over risk Review and agree risk appetite.
Review and challenge risk Monitor progress against actions reports received.
Executive Head Management: of Risk: Review, challenge and approve Design and implement risk the risk management policy and management approach, supported by corresponding processes and appropriate risk management policy.
Facilitate and implement risk Review and challenge risk information management approach and policy.
Undertake risk management activities Approve risk treatments and actions.
and produce reports in accordance with risk management policy.
Approve risk reports for the Board.
Review and agree risk appetite.
Key: Reports to Direct and monitor 20 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management process Management maintains a comprehensive Identify risk register of all identified risks, including operational, financial, compliance and strategic risks.
The risk management All processes have been set up in such a way so as to ensure all aspects of the business business are considered, from strategy areas through to business execution.
Specifically, specialist areas are also incorporated into the risk processes, for example, Corporate Responsibility and jointventures.
The risk register is reviewed on a regular basis as part of the management reporting Evaluate process resulting in the regular assessment of each risk, its severity and any required mitigating actions.
The severity of risks is Severity determined based on a defined scoring of risks system assessing risk impact and likelihood.
Derived from the comprehensive risk register is a summary of principal risks specifically reserved for review by the Board.
This is mainly, but not exclusively comprised of risks, after mitigation, which score above a certain threshold.
This summary is reviewed by the Board Treat throughout the year, with the Board systematically considering the risks taking into account any changes which To bring may have occurred.
Once a year, via the within risk appetite Audit Committee, the Board determines whether the system of risk management .
More information on risk management and internal controls is included within the Audit Committee Report on pages 49 to 53.
Actions Mitigate risks where needed Report Monitor and report progress Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued WE HAVE IDENTIFIED, EVALUATED AND PUT IN PLACE MEASURES TO MITIGATE THE PRINCIPAL RISKS FACED BY THE BUSINESS, AS SHOWN BELOW.
Risk and Relevance to strategy KPIs Mitigation Change in year description Land Inability to source Failure to buy land at the right EPS.
We prepare thorough pre-purchase due suitable land at margin would have a detrimental diligence and pre-purchase viabilities on ROCE.
appropriate gross effect on future returns.
all of our proposed land purchases.
These The land market margins and ROCE.
are kept under regular review to ensure remained Land bank withDPP.
Insufficient land would affect our capital is invested appropriately.
competitive during volume growth targets.
We have Authorisation of all land purchases strengthened regardless of value in accordance with our land teams, Group procedures at Head Office.
both through new appointments and new regional roles.
Planning Delays and Failure to obtain planning EPS.
Centralised and divisional planning complexity in the within appropriate, pre-planned specialists provide advice and support ROCE.
timescales would have a to the divisions to assist with securing Despite complexity detrimental impact on our growth planning permissions.
in the planning Number of plots acquired prospects and have an adverse process, this risk has directly in land bank with Management of immediate, mediumeffect on returns.
continued to be well an implementable DPP.
term and strategic land to maintain an managed in the year, appropriate balance of land in terms of Number of plots converted with the number of quantity and location.
from medium-term planning permissions pipeline to land with DPP.
Number of plots in our pipeline land bank.
Number of plots identified in our strategic land bank with a positive planning status.
Construction resources Shortage of Failure to secure required EPS.
Systems are in place to select, appoint, appropriately skilled resources causes delays in monitor and manage sub-contractors.
sub-contractors construction, impacting the ability Competitive rates are in place for and shortages of to deliver volume growth targets.
This risk has building materials at Pricing pressure would increased slightly competitive prices.
Group purchasing arrangements are impactreturns.
due to increased competitive pressure Continued review of forward planning in the sub-contractor andkey supplier performance.
labour market We build long-term relationships with and as a result sub-contractors and always aim to treat of uncertainties them fairly and pay promptly.
Health and safety There are significant In addition to the moral obligation Number of RIDDOR The Board considers health and safety health and safety and the requirement to act in a seven-day lost time issues at every meeting.
risks inherent in responsible manner, injuries to accidents.
There have been no Regular visits to sites by senior the construction any individual while at one of our changes to this risk NHBC health and safety management independent of our process.
business locations could delay during the year.
divisions and external consultants to construction and result in criminal monitor health and safety standards and prosecution, civil litigation and NHBC Health and Safety performance against the health and safety reputational damage.
22 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk and Relevance to strategy KPIs Mitigation Change in year description Environment Percentage of compounds We have a range of procedures in The impact of our Ineffective management of operations on the environmental matters would with energy saving devices.
place to address issues around ecology, biodiversity, resource use, waste environment must lead tofinancial loss, reputational There have been no Energy efficiency of be managed in a damage and a potential inability management and sustainable sourcing, changes to this risk ourhomes.
with the objective that a development responsible and during the year.
should create an attractive and sustainable Waste diversion rates.
Sales There are a number The ultimate impact of these EPS.
Ongoing monitoring of key business of external factors external factors would be on metrics such as reservation rates, ROCE.
that could affect our the ability to sell homes and cancellation rates and customer care ability to generate apartments and on returns.
This risk has sales: Action plans developed from monitoring increased slightly Forward order book.
during the year due following the EU Reservations rate.
to uncertainties Active management of construction rates Referendum: following the EU Customer care satisfaction.
to match with sales rates.
Referendum but access to credit partially offset by Product range and pricing strategy facilities: reducing interest determined based on regional market rates.
availability: Use of sales incentives, such as partinterest rate exchange, to encourage the selling changes: and process.
government Use of government-backed schemes housing policy.
Human resources Inability to Failure to attract and retain people EPS.
We have appointed a new Group Human attract and retain with appropriate skills will affect our Resources Director who will oversee the Employee turnover.
ability to perform and deliver our development of our people strategy.
This risk has not volume growth target.
changed during the People who have worked Competitive salary and benefits packages year as the labour for the Group for ten years which are regularly reviewed.
market has remained or more.
Succession plans in place and key person Graduates and dependencies identified.
Graduate and apprentice training Number of homes sold.
Information technology Failure to have Poor performance of our systems EPS.
Group-wide systems are in operation suitable systems in would affect operational efficiency, which are centrally controlled with an place and appropriate profitability and our control outsourced support function in place.
There have been no back up, contingency environment.
changes to this risk Continued investment in systems.
plans and security during the year.
Regular review and testing of our security measures, contingency plans and IT security policies.
Legal and regulatory compliance Failure to comply Lack of appropriate procedures Volume growth.
Central Secretariat, Legal and Technical with legislation and compliance would result in functions advise and support divisions EPS.
and regulatory delays in land development and oncompliance and regulatory matters.
There have been no requirements.
construction, have a detrimental changes to this risk Group-wide policies, procedures and impact on profitability and during the year.
training for key regulatory matters.
reputation and potentially lead to financial penalties and other regulatory consequences.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued The Board considers the Groups exposure Housing market risk Financial risk management to credit risk to be acceptable and normal for The Group is affected by movements in UK The Groups financial instruments comprise an entity of its size, in the industry in which it house prices.
These in turn are affected by cash, bank loans and overdrafts and various operates.
factors such as credit availability, employment items such as trade receivables and trade levels, interest rates, consumer confidence payables that arise directly from its operations.
Liquidity risk andsupply of land with planning.
The main objective of the Groups policy The Group finances its operations through towards financial instruments is to maximise While it is not possible for the Group to fully amixture of equity comprising share capital, returns on the Groups cash balances, manage mitigate housing market risk on a national reserves and reinvested profit and debt the Groups working capital requirements and macroeconomic basis, the Group does comprising bank overdraft facilities and finance the Groups ongoing operations.
continually monitor its geographical spread borrowings.
The Group manages its liquidity within the UK, seeking to balance investment The Companys only financial instruments are risk by monitoring existing facilities and cash in areas offering the best immediate returns cash, other receivables and amounts owed flows against forecast requirements based with a long-term spread of its operations byGroup undertakings.
throughout the UK to minimise the effect oflocal microeconomic fluctuations.
The Groups Treasury Policy has, as its Capital management principal objective, the maintenance of flexible The Boards policy is to maintain a strong bank facilities in order to meet anticipated EU Referendum capital base to underpin the future borrowing requirements.
The Groups banking Although there has been volatility in development of the business in order to arrangements outlined in note 18 to the Bellways share price and that of other listed deliver value to shareholders.
The Group accounts are considered to be adequate in UK housebuilders since the result of the EU finances its operations through reinvested terms of flexibility and liquidity for its mediumReferendum, the uncertainty around the UKs profits, bank borrowings, cash in hand and term cash flow needs.
Relationships with decision to leave the EU has not translated into themanagement of working capital.
banks and overall cash management are a decline in demand for our homes nor any co-ordinated centrally.
The Group is operating change in the willingness of lenders to provide Management of financial risk well within its financial covenants and available mortgage finance.
We continue to monitor bank facilities.
The main risks associated with the Groups the situation carefully and the economic financial instruments held during the year environment generally and are confident that Short-term cash surpluses are placed on have been identified as credit risk, liquidity given our strong balance sheet and disciplined deposit at competitive rates with high quality risk, interest rate risk and housing market risk.
approach to land buying, together with the counterparties.
Other than disclosed, there are The Board is responsible for managing these demand for new homes, that Bellway is well no financial instruments or derivative contracts.
risks and the policies adopted, which have placed to continue its long-term growth The Board therefore considers the Groups remained unchanged during the year, are strategy.
liquidity risk to be mitigated.
In relation to land payables, certain payables are secured on the respective land asset held Credit risk see note 17 to the accounts.
No other security The Groups exposure to credit risk is largely is held against any other financial assets of the mitigated as the vast majority of the Groups Group.
sales are made on completion of a legal contract, at which point monies are received Interest rate risk inexchange for transfer of legal title.
The Groups attitude to interest rate risk and There is no specific concentration of credit forecast debt is influenced by the existing risk in respect of home sales as the exposure and forecast conditions prevailing at the time is spread over a number of customers.
In that each new interest-bearing instrument respect of trade receivables, the amounts is entered into.
This will determine, amongst presented in the balance sheet are stated after other things, the term and whether a fixed or adjusting for any doubtful receivables, based floating interest rate is obtained.
on the judgement of the Groups management through using both previous experience and Interest rate risk reflects the Groups exposure knowledge of the current position see note 15 to fluctuations in interest rates.
The risk arises to the accounts.
In managing risk, the Group because the Groups overdraft and floating rate assesses the credit risk of its counterparties bank loans bear interest based on LIBOR.
As part of During the year ended 31 July 2016, it is the disposal of the Group's interest in Barking estimated that an increase of 1% in interest rates Riverside Limited, as set out in note 5 to the applying for the full year would decrease the accounts, the Group has a receivable with Groups profit before taxation by 0.986 million a fair value of 27.430 million due from L&Q 2015 1.399million.
The credit risk associated with this receivable is considered to be low as it is a reputable counterparty.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period or subsequently and the Group does not anticipate any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
24 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016
