Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy delivery risk The following risk heat maps illustrate the relative positioning of our principal risks to the delivery of our strategy in terms of impact and likelihood before and after mitigating actions, as well as the level of management focus for each.
Relative movement in respect to year end 2015 is also shown.
Our current Identifying, mitigating activities have thus far reduced risk to levels acceptable by the Board except for Brexit risk.
Although we have identied mitigating prioritising and options for the various risks deriving from Brexit, we cannot currently act due to the high level of uncertainty around managing our the outcomes of Brexit negotiations.
Pre-mitigation risks to support 1 4 6 5 business strategy.
3 2 7 The way in which we identify and prioritise risks, to manage within our risk appetite, is driven by our strategic objectives.
Low Likelihood High Post-mitigation Identifying, evaluating and Viability statement prioritising our risks 1 4 Our Board assessed the prospect of the The Board has performed a robust company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern assessment of the principal risks facing provision which can be found on page 114. the Group, taking into account those 3 that would threaten our business model The review was conducted for a period of 2 6 three years for the following reasons: i the see page 14, future performance, Groups strategic review covers a rolling 5 solvency or liquidity, as well as the three-year period: ii is aligned with our long- 7 Groups strategic objectives see page range plans: and iii is an appropriate period 16.
The timing considered is three years, for our market, especially when considering our usual customer contracts extend for at the same as the viability statement least a three-year period.
In addition, the Board considered how risks evolve and The process required for the Boards review was approved by the Audit Committee and potential new risks.
details can be found on page 81.
Low Likelihood High Overall, the Group is facing a number The Board considered the wider context of of new strategic risks which have the the Group, including our business model, Level of management focus potential to impact the delivery of the strategy and risk appetite.
They concluded that as a group, we remain focused on our High priority business strategy.
Adequate controls strengths, are a diversied business operating have been put in place to ensure in predominantly mature countries across Note: Effective management of strategic risks is critical to the effective management of these.
success of our strategy, therefore high priority is given to all multiple business sectors.
In addition, due to past underinvestment experienced management team and we are strengthening the business foundations in people, plant and machinery in our UK even further to deliver on the new business businesses we are seeing an increased strategy.
Based on the results of this review, operational risk related to people and our directors have a reasonable expectation operational capacity see risks 10 and 15 that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they on page 58. fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
56 Low Impact High Low Impact High Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Risk Potential Movement since Current mitigating Further mitigating impact January 2016 actions actions in 2017 Business disruption Reduction in future Increased a The Executive Board reviews a The current mitigating and lack of focus profitability, and impact Due to the monthly the progress on strategy actions will continue.
1 resulting from strategic on KPIs: increased implementation and business In addition, the new .
number of performance against targets agreed.
KPIs will be monitored a Revenue growth strategic going forward.
a New KPIs dened and agreed.
a Earnings per share Strategic focus area initiatives.
a Project activity to be a Monitoring of project tracker for a Cash ow a Operational excellence monitored weekly by Group initiatives.
a Net debt to EBITDA Business Lines and a Dedicated PMO resource for a Return on invested monthly by Group.
all major projects and project capital management system in place.
a Dividend per share Not having the IT and shared Insufficient support to No change a A Shared Service project is looking a Continue with our services capability needed the new Group strategy at ensuring that shared services current mitigating 2 to support the delivery of and impact on KPIs: support is strengthened and aligned actions.
Part of this a Revenue growth project covers IT capability.
The a Earnings per share Strategic focus area project is being supported by a a Return on invested a Underpins all our four consultancy rm with expertise in capital strategic areas outlined the subject.
onpage 16 Not embedding the Insufficient support to No change a The Berendsen Excellence function a Delivery of LEAN necessary LEAN capabilities the new Group strategy is now fully set up and its Continuous training and 3 to support the delivery of and impact on KPIs: Improvement department is implementation of the business strategy across driving a number of LEAN training new operating models a Revenue growth businesses.
Also it is supporting will continue in 2017. a Earnings per share through a network of Black Belts a Berendsen Strategic focus area a Major injury rate the design and implementation of management a Underpins all our four a CO2 emissions New Operating Models based on system in place from strategic areas outlined a Senior management theLEAN principles.
February 2017 to onpage 16 retention rate a An Organisational Capability Review monitor KPIs.
a Return on invested project which consists of a people a Sites benchmarking capital capability review, also helps with against Berendsen building leadership capabilities Excellence model.
across businesses based on the LEAN principles.
Not having the right people Insufficient support to New a The Organisational Capability a The delivery of capability and alignment the new Group strategy People capability Review project is being delivered.
the Organisational 4 to support the delivery and impact on KPIs: to deliver The project aim is for the business Capability Review of the business strategy change at the to have the right people in the right project will continue a Revenue growth and sustain past business same time as place according to business needs in 2017. a Earnings per share .
The project is being a Major injury rate performance supported by a consultancy rm Strategic focus area a CO2 emissions is key for the withexpertise in the subject.
a Underpins all our four a Senior management success of our strategic areas outlined retention rate new strategy.
onpage 16 a Return on invested capital Not being able to execute Reduction in future New a A dedicated business development a Continue with our theM&A pipeline.
profitability, and impact The new strategy team is in place to support the current mitigating 5 on KPIs: aims for high business with the execution of actions.
Strategic focus area growth targets acquisitions.
a Revenue growth a Customer market growth which need also a A dened framework and process a Cash ow to be delivered for acquisitions and integrations is through M&A.
Not embedding the Reduction in future New a New dened standard framework a Berendsen Advance necessary capabilities profitability, and impact Focus on will be used to help implement CRM will be used 6 to strengthen customer on KPIs: customer needs pipeline management.
engagement and ensure is at the heart of Training will be a Revenue growth bidding success rates and our new strategy.
provided to users by a Cash ow customer retention increase July 2017. acrossthe business.
Strategic focus area a Customer market growth Brexit.
Inability to execute the New a A Brexit detailed risk assessment has a Regular meeting with business strategy and The UK has been performed to understand how Group management 7 Strategic focus area impact on KPIs: voted in favour the different elements of a Brexit will continue to ensure a Underpins all our four of leaving the EU would impact on our business model close monitoring on a Revenue growth strategic areas outlined and Article 50 andstrategy.
the development of a Earnings per share onpage 16 is expected to Brexit.
a High-level mitigation options a Cash ow be triggered in have been dened for each of a Implementation of a Senior management March 17 when therisksidentied.
mitigation actions retention rate negotiations according to a Regular meetings with Group a Net debt to EBITDA to exit will developments and management take place for a Return on invested commence.
continuous monitoring of the capital situation and assessment of a Add to contractual a Dividend per share risksidentied.
terms and conditions a clause to allow exibility to deal with Brexit risks.
57 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential Movement since Operational, financial impact January 2016 and legal compliance risks Failure to deliver Health and Safety Damage to our reputation No change The following risk heat maps illustrate systems to reduce accidents and and or loss of licence to 8 the relative positioning of our Group improvesafety.
operate and impact onKPIs: key risks to operations, finance and a Revenue growth Strategic focus area legal compliance in terms of impact a Major injury rate a Operational excellence to be the best and likelihood before and after mitigating actions, as well as the Textile suppliers are found not to be Damage to our reputation, No change level of management focus for each.
adopting appropriate employment and or loss of licence to 9 andhuman rights practices.
Relative movement in respect to year significant shareholder end 2015 is also shown.
a Operational excellence Our current mitigating activities have Impact on KPI: a Earnings per share been successful thus far in reducing risk to levels the Board deems acceptable.
Inadequate talent management Lack of internal succession Increased and inability to recruit and retain for key management The organisational 10 sufficiently qualied andexperienced roles.
Short medium-term changes being Pre-mitigation seniormanagement.
disruption in the event of delivered increase the sudden departures due to risk of people leaving Strategic focus area lack of skilled management.
a People effectiveness 16 Impact on KPI: Past underinvestment 12 11 in people in the UK a Senior management businesses.
retention rate 8 17 9 Failure of sales to deliver the necessary Reduction in future No change 14 new contract wins to drive targeted profitability, and impact 11 10 organicgrowth.
onKPI: 13 a Revenue growth Strategic focus area 15 a Customer market growth significant change in political Reduction in future Increased environment arising from government profitability, and impact Brexit, outcomes of the 12 policies or spending levels.
onKPIs: recent US elections, Low Likelihood High upcoming elections a Revenue growth Strategic focus area in EU countries, all a Earnings per share a Customer market growth and Post-mitigation contribute to changes in a Cash ow operational excellence the political landscape and potential changes in policy.
11 Non-compliance with laws Damage to our reputation, Increased andregulations.
and or loss of licence New regulations with 13 9 8 17 tooperate.
signicance for the Strategic focus area 16 Group are upcoming Impact on KPIs: a Operational excellence i. e. the General Data a Revenue growth 12 Protection Regulation, a Earnings per share 13 Gender Pay Gap Reporting.
Emergence of unaccounted Increased 14 for liability, and adverse In 2016, we saw 15 14 Strategic focus area impact on reputation and an increase in the a Operational excellence and effective retained earnings and KPI: number of incidents use of capital with environmental a Cash ow impactpotential.
Low Likelihood High Unforeseen loss of capacity Inability to service customer Increased Level of management focus signicantfacility or business critical requirements and adverse We saw in 2016 an 15 Low priority ITsystem becomes unavailable.
impact on reputation increase in the number andKPIs: of incidents with Strategic focus area Medium priority potential to impact a Revenue growth a Operational excellence onloss of capacity.
a Earnings per share High priority Past underinvestement in plant and machinery in the UK businesses.
Movements in exchange rates adversely Unexpected variations in Increased affect the translation of our Group Group net earnings There is higher 16 results into UK sterling.
volatility in currency KPI: exchangerates.
a Earnings per share Strategic focus area a Effective use of capital Further economic downturn low or Reduction in future No change negative GDP growth in Europe.
profitability, adverse 17 pressure on pricing and Strategic focus area margins, and impact on KPIs: a Effective use of capital and a Cash ow customer market growth a Net debt to EBITDA a Return on invested capital 58 Low Impact High Low Impact High Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Current mitigating Further mitigating actions actions in 2017 a Group Health and Safety Policy in place.
a Prompt incident reporting procedures maintained.
a Implementation of the Health and a Regular Board review of major incidents and statistics.
a Local health, safety and re management systems in place.
a Regularly updated and monitored cleaning and a Clear Health and Safety Strategy dened.
a Upgrade of incident maintenance programmes.
a Regular visits to major suppliers by experienced internal a Supplier Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy are a Continue with our personnel and external parties to assess suppliers included in all suppliers contracts.
current mitigating compliance with appropriate working practices.
a Employee survey taking place every two years last one a Performance and development review process in place.
a Review and update took place in 2015.
Results of the 2015 employee survey of the Berendsen a Management trainee scheme in place.
have been reviewed by all businesses and you said we will LEADmodel.
a Short and long-term management incentive plans in place.
actions were agreed and acted upon in 2016. a Review of the Berendsen Academy.
a The new business strategy is being implemented.
Split of a The growth targets have been increased from GDP 1-2% a Complete Business Lines Healthcare, Hospitality, Mats and Washroom toGDP 2%.
implementation are delivering further focus on sales in each Business Line.
of the standard a New dened standard framework for business capture, framework for a The reporting system provides monthly progress against using Microsoft Dynamics across businesses to help business capture and Business Line budgets, including key performance implement pipeline management.
a Monthly management accounts distributed to the Board include KPIs on organic growth, contract gains and customer losses.
a Careful monitoring and planning of political developments.
a Brexit detailed risk assessment completed and regularly a Continue with our monitored.
current mitigating a Deep understanding of domestic market and political actions.
a Group policy, procedures and guidelines maintained and a Ongoing training programme for employees.
a Review and improve regularly monitored to ensure compliance to those laws and control framework a Prompt incident reporting procedures maintained.
regulations identied as significant for the Group.
a New policies developed and translated into local languages when needed.
a Improve anti-bribery and corruption training through e-learning.
a Environmental policy and regular monitoring of compliance a Established indemnities with the previous owners a Recommendations in place.
from a recently completed AS IS a Established procedures for incident reporting to senior analysis on how management with subsequent monitoring.
we are managing environmental risk will be addressed.
a Group Business Continuity Policy in place which requires a Fire protection and security procedures at all significant a Recommendations documented and evaluated business continuity plans for all locations, including smoke detectors, sprinkler systems and from a recently significant facilities to ensure that customer service is not alarm systems.
completed AS IS signicantly impacted during an interruption.
The policy also analysis on how a At least annually, audits of compliance with re protection required documented IT disaster recovery plans.
we are managing and security procedures.
business continuity a Regular desktop scenario-based testing of business a Comprehensive group-wide property damage and business risk will be continuity planning arrangements.
a Maintain and regularly monitor a high level of balance a Continue with the sheethedging.
a Regular communication with the market on impact onearnings.
a Long-range plans for Business Lines to 2019 prepared.
a Monitoring of various lead indicators against previous a Continue with the experience including Hotel and Workwear volumes.
current mitigating a Tight and closely monitored controls over capital actions.
59 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Essential every day 60 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Better protection 23:00|Krakw, Poland Wlodek has just arrived for the lateshift.
Hes a welder working on an automotive construction site.
For him, protection is essential, but with long hours, he also needs to be comfortable.
His FlamePro suit provided by Berendsen ensures both.
61 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chairmans address A strong and effective governance culture.
As a Board we aim to ensure our high governance standards are reected across the business.
Iain Ferguson Chairman and we now look forward to working Included in this report: Dear shareholder, with them to deliver the benets I am pleased to confirm that your Leadership 66 of Berendsen Excellence to all of company has complied in full with Who we are: our Board and Executive our stakeholders.
the principles and provisions of the Board biographies 2014 UK Corporate Governance In my governance report to you last year, Our governance framework Code the Code since April 2016 I identied four key areas of focus for the The Boards activities in 2016 following shareholder approval of our Board in 2016 as: remuneration policy.
The approved Effectiveness 70 a Supporting the implementation remuneration policy included How our performance evaluation of the new strategy amendments to our performance related process makes us more effective remuneration schemes which introduced a Continuing to develop and Our Nomination Committees role in supporting Board effectiveness and development malus and clawback provisions as maintain best practice standards recommended in provision D. 1.1 of the in corporate governance Relations with shareholders 76 Code: this was the only provision with a Supporting the further development which we did not previously comply.
How we engage with shareholders including: of talent and succession planning a Shareholder meetings and reception with our 2016 has been an extremely busy and Chairman and Senior Independent Director a Participating and assisting with the challenging year for the Group, we are a Focused investor relations resource review of the Groups advisers disappointed that the financial result a Details of our 2017 AGM for the year is below expectations We have made good progress against all following difficult late summer and Accountability 80 of these areas of focus in the year.
autumn trading, particularly in the UK Report of our Audit Committees businesses.
In his overview, our CEO activity including: Supporting the implementation James Drummond, explains both the a Monitoring the effectiveness of our risk ofthenew business strategy reasons for the shortfall and also the management and internal control systems Since we announced our new business actions that he and his team are taking to a Ensuring a focused internal audit programme strategy to the market in November address the legacy challenges identied a Reviewing significant financial judgements 2015, the Board has been heavily and key financial reporting issues through implementing the Berendsen involved in monitoring and supporting Excellence Strategy.
its implementation across the Group.
My Board colleagues and I are impressed Our strategy includes a focus on by the focus and energy which James operational excellence through the brings to his role and by the quality and establishment of Berendsen Excellence, If you would like to discuss diversity of the Executive Board which and as a Board we recognise our role in any aspect of our Groups he has brought together.
The Board has leading by example in striving for and governance with me, please been heavily involved in developing the promoting excellence in everything feel free to email me at Group strategy, working closely with we do.
eu James and his senior executive team, 62 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements We consistently challenge ourselves to achieve this.
Our governance framework described in this report allows for the continued monitoring, review, development and implementation of the policies, procedures and culture that support our high governance standards.
Particular areas of focus for us in 2016 have been to strengthen policies and procedures in respect to acquisitions, to develop policies and procedures to address the implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation, and EU reform of the statutory audit market from July this year: more detail on which can be found in the following report.
Culture is a key theme for us.
The success of our strategy is very much dependent on developing a culture across the Group that supports the pursuit of excellence.
Our vision, mission and values are described on pages 14 to 15, and we recognise that the Board must lead by example to ensure these values are embedded not just in the boardroom, but in how all at Berendsen act on a day to day basis.
I am pleased to report that our boardroom culture is good, with constructive challenge owing freely from the Non-Executive Directors, underpinned Much progress has been made in 2016 This has obviously been a major point by a genuine sense of mutual respect with the further development of our of discussion for the Board during the between all directors.
This has been Business Lines and the appointment year and we are committed to working borne out by our performance evaluation of a diverse and experienced executive with James and his team to solve process for 2016, the results of which are team to drive the performance of those these challenges.
described on page 74. Business Lines.
The resulting impact on our EPS Supporting the further development Implementation of the strategy has been performance means that our Executive of talent and succession planning a significant focus area on the agenda Directors will not receive an annual for our Board meetings during the year: bonus in respect of 2016, and the longWe remain led by our Nomination James has provided us with regular term incentive awards that were due Committee focused on ensuring updates, and we have also received to vest in 2017 will not pay out.
This is that our talent pipeline is managed to presentations from the Business Line explained in more detail in the Directors support the Groups strategy.
Our site visits, and remuneration report on page 98. assisted the executive management in discussions between non-executives and identifying and appointing candidates members of the Business Line teams Developing and maintaining best for the Executive Board and other senior have also helped to inform our view of practice governance standards management roles, and I am delighted the success, and the challenges, of the with the appointments we have made We see corporate governance as a implementation process.
which add signicantly to the diversity core and vital discipline complementing in skills, background and experience at our desire to continually improve upon As described in greater detail on pages senior management level.
Biographies of the success of the Group on behalf 42 to 51, our trading performance in 2016 our Executive Board members can of our shareholders.
Our goal, is to was below expected levels primarily due be found on pages 68 to 69, and my be at the forefront of best practice in to higher than expected costs in our UK Nomination Committee Report on page corporate governance.
77, gives further detail about our input into the appointment process.
63 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chairmans address continued The Board has continued to support I am in frequent and open contact with Our IT governance and security was strengthened during 2015, and and review the success of our leadership James and the rest of the Board, and I development programmes and we are aim to ensure that at all times the Board security generally but particularly cyber-security has remained high on confident that these, our talent pipeline, fully understands how the business is and other initiatives like our Women operating and any risks or challenges in our agenda in 2016.
The company has completed a thorough risk assessment in Berendsen Network, mean that we our future.
are well set to continue our success in of information security during the Our programme of non-executive site year, with regular reports on progress developing internal staff into diverse and visits has continued in 2016, which experienced managers of the future.
considered by the Audit Committee.
included visits to our Garment Design Succession planning for the Board facility in Gothenburg Sweden and our Health, safety and security and Committees has also been on new Workwear facility in Durham UK, As part of Berendsen Excellence, we the Nomination Committees agenda, and continues to enhance the Boards have increased our focus on health and particularly with respect to our longest understanding of business operations.
This focus, supported serving Non-Executive Directors who This has been particularly helpful this by the appointment of Mark Sayer, our also chair our Audit and Remuneration year as it has allowed us a clear view of new Health and Safety Director, is being Committees.
Again, more detail on our how well our new strategy is translating driven by James, and ensures that health succession planning activity can be into the day-to-day activities of the and safety KPIs are reviewed by the found in the Nomination Committee business as a whole.
On 25 July 2016, I held my annual We have incentivised our Executive scheduled meeting with the Review of the Groups advisers Directors to continue to focus on health Non-Executive Directors without It is a theme of our approach to and safety by making a portion of their the executive management present.
governance generally that we must annual bonus payment subject to health Our discussions focused on succession consistently challenge our procedures, and safety performance.
Safety is one planning and Board composition and, processes and relationships to ensure of our core values: we are determined to linked to that, the culture of the Board we are delivering, and being provided drive continuous improvement in safety and our priorities for 2017. with, the excellence that we strive for.
performance and have set an objective We are in the third year of our During the year, the Group has reviewed of zero accidents.
performance evaluation cycle, and its relationships with a number of key Our approach to health and safety, the evaluation process has this year advisers, including our corporate lawyers including a description of the metrics by been led by David Lowden our Senior and investment bankers.
The Board has which we measure our health and safety Independent Director.
The process is been central to these reviews, providing performance, are described in detail in described on page 74, and I am pleased input into the evaluation of incumbent our CR report on pages 32 to 39. to report that the outcome of the providers and meeting with key evaluation was positive and confirmed individuals to discuss service offerings Legislation has also been introduced that the Board and Committees are going forward.
during the year on matters such as operating to the high standards that we slavery and human trafficking.
The Board In connection with our review of demand.
Particular strengths identied has published its statement under key corporate advisers, we have were the relationship between directors Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act also supported the appointment of and senior management, the Boards on the companys website which sets AliceDarwall to the role of General focus on supporting the implementation out the steps we have taken during the Counsel.
Alice will bring valuable legal of strategy, and the open and constructive year to ensure that our operations and and regulatory advice and knowledge atmosphere in Board meetings.
supply chains are free from trafficking directly to the Board, enhancing our and slavery.
governance approach and reducing Risk management ourreliance on third-party advisers.
Risk management, and in particular the Meeting our major shareholders principal risks faced by the Group, are We continued to operate a Other activity in 2016 key elements of the Boards ongoing comprehensive investor relations agenda and have been in particular focus programme with our Executive Directors Board effectiveness this year given the uncertain political meeting investors and analysts regularly, The effectiveness of the Board is largely climate in Europe and the UKs Brexit and being supported where appropriate dependent on the relationships between vote.
Details of our principal risks and by both myself and David Lowden as Non-Executive and Executive Directors, uncertainties are set out on pages 56 to Senior Independent Director.
and underpinned by our commitment 59.
Given the pan-European nature of our to demonstrating the companys culture operations, the impact of Brexit has been and values at the board table.
discussed frequently by the Board.
64 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Our investor relations programme, UK Corporate Governance Code: Compliance Statement which is described on page 76, is Between 1 January 2016 and 28 April 2016, we complied with all of the principles and provisions now supported by Peter Young who of the Code with the exception of provision D. 1.1 which requires that performance-related we appointed as Director of Investor remuneration schemes should include both malus and clawback provisions.
Following shareholder Relations in October 2016.
David and approval of our remuneration policy at our AGM on 28 April 2016, we have complied in full with the principles and provisions of the Code for the remainder of the year.
I also hosted a shareholder event on 1 November 2016 which was attended The corporate governance statement and the additional governance disclosures listed in the table below set out our approach to applying the Code.
by nine of our major shareholders amounting to approximately 21% of our shareholding.
We again received positive feedback and see the event as a valuable opportunity to understand the views of, See our business model, value generation Key areas of uncertainty considered in the and develop constructive relationships and strategy in our Strategic report preparation of the financial statements with our major shareholders.
0159 83 The Board There have been no changes to the See our approach to risk management and See our Directors remuneration report composition of the Board during the internal control in our Risk report 88111 year, and I would like to thank my 5459 colleagues on the Board for their continued support, commitment, challenge and passion for our business.
Further information on the Code See our Directors report can be found on the Financial Reporting 112114 As I mentioned above, we have Councils website at www.
uk considered succession planning in respect of Andrew Wood and David Lowden, both of whom are entering their We are delighted that we have received several external accolades for our final three-year term of appointment governance and remuneration reporting during the year.
as recommended under the Code.
It is a Nominated for and won Silver for the Corporate and Financial Awards 2016: our current intention that Andrew will Best Printed Report in the FTSE 250 step down at our AGM in 2018 and that David will step down at the 2019 a Nominated for and won the ICSA Awards 2016: Best Annual Report AGM.
We will provide a further update in the FTSE 250 on our succession plans in this respect a Nominated for and won the ICSA Awards 2016: Best Remuneration Report next year.
a Nominated for the ICSA Awards 2016: Best Risk Disclosure in the FTSE 250 Iain Ferguson Chairman Board priorities in 2017 a Support the Executive Board in delivering the new business strategy and developing the capabilities required to build Berendsen Excellence a Progress the succession planning requirements at Board level for Non-Executive Directors and the broader succession planning and development initiatives acrossthe Group a Monitor the impact of the UK Organisation Capability review 65
