Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk management Optimising our risk management processes.
Anticipation and proactive response, turning risks into business value, willhelpus to retain our strength inarapidly changing environment.
Nagore Marco Group Risk Manager Brexit detailed risk assessment In 2016, we completed a detailed risk assessment on how Brexit could impact on our business.
Our current risk landscape Risk management processes The outcomes of the assessment highlighted and key risk drivers During 2016, we have focused on the that Brexit could potentially have profound implications for our UK operations if negotiations improvement of our risk management We operate predominantly in Western result in the loss of free movement of people and processes outlined in diagram on page Europe, where there is a well-developed with it, the UKs membership of the single market.
55, as well as the tools and guidelines business culture, and we have a large Our UK operations are heavily dependent on an available in the business to support this number of plants reducing the potential ability to recruit from across the EU as well as a goal.
We want to ensure that the risk global supply chain.
Brexit has the following three impact should a problem occur in principal risks: management processes will support a specic plant.
However, the risk the successful delivery of growth a Risk of increased labour costs and lower levels landscape is changing and becoming of service and productivity owing to the loss of opportunities whilst protecting existing more complex in both our internal and the free movement of people business value.
At the same time, external environment.
a Risk to efficient management of our supply we want to ensure risk management We face new internal challenges to the chain, due to the UKs withdrawal from the processes help with the anticipation of, single market success of our new business strategy, and offer a proactive response to, risk.
for which we need to have the right a Risk of our customers deciding to relocate To support this, we have put in place their UK operations to retain their own supply capabilities in place regarding people, chainexibility a network of Risk Management systems and processes.
Champions across all businesses and We are seeing growing uncertainty in functions.
The Champions were trained Europe with rapidly changing political in fundamentals of risk management in environments and increased volatility in two-day workshops and they now hold markets and exchange rates.
In addition, a recognised certicate in the Institute Brexit exposes us to a high level of of Risk Managements Fundamentals of uncertainty and will inevitably impact Risk Management course.
In addition, our business if the UK completely breaks across all our businesses, we have from the EU and loses the access to the offered an improved set of tools and single market.
techniques to support the identication, evaluation and management of risks.
There is an increased demand for quality standards and practices driving and Further developments are planned increasing laws and regulations, which for 2017, including the implementation Risk management training and improved tools we need to adopt in an efficient and of a web-based risk management The risk management programme and effective manner to keep our leading system to allow for further consistency championship structure have helped us a lot to position in our markets.
in risk information and more efficient continue to develop our proactive approach of handling risks, both threats and opportunities.
consolidation and analysis throughout We therefore need to remain exible We have been given training and tools, not the organisation.
and take a proactive approach in only to risk evaluate our budgets and markets managing risks.
We are improving our but also our internal processes and projects.
Our championship structure will support and risk management processes and have facilitate our organisation in this work which set ourselves the goal of reaching an will increase awareness of our risks and initiate optimised level where we see risk as clear actions to reduce or exploit them in a an uncertainty consisting of both an professional structured way.
This will help us as opportunity and a threat, and where an organisation to take the right decisions to be able to deliver our strategy.
weturn risk into business value.
Andreas Svensson Country Manager, Sweden Washroom andRiskManagement Champion 54 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Risk appetite and culture Risk management process in detail Our risk appetite and culture determine Our risk management process ensures that risks are identied, evaluated and how we take decisions related to risk.
managed at all levels in our organisation.
These include the review of the most significant risks facing the Group, including the identication and evaluation of The Board is responsible for setting potential new risks by the Board.
the amount of risk the company is willing to bear.
It then approves the business strategy and cascades it The Board down to the organisation by setting a Sets strategic objectives the Groups delegation of authority a Agrees risk appetite, identies and evaluates key risks and tolerance levels and ensures they limits and approving Group policies are appropriately managed and procedures including the risk a Sets delegation of authority management policy.
The overall risk a Approves Group policies and procedures appetite set by the Board is as follows: a Zero tolerance towards compliance risks Executive Group Risk Audit Board Management Committee a For corporate responsibility risks which are beyond compliance to laws and regulations tolerance is as low as a Monitors performance and Provides guidance and a Monitors assurance reasonably practical changes in key risks facing advice to Business Line and and risk management the business, and provides business unit management arrangements a For business risks tolerance level is set regular reports tothe to help with: by the hurdle rate of 15% Board a Risk identication a Agrees key actions to procedures, quantication Our Vision, Mission and Values manage risks and mitigation plans complement and drive the characteristics a Insurance support of our culture.
We maintain an open a Reports to the Board and style of communication, identifying any Corporate function, Effectiveness Audit Committee on status Business Line, business ofriskand problems and issues early so appropriate of business risks action can be taken quickly to minimise unit management controlprocesses any impact on the business.
Our Group intranet, the Berendsen Universe, which a Identies, assesses, Review of the effectiveness provides an extensive platform for our manages and reports of key risk management and employees to keep updated with latest localrisks control processes through: news, key Group policies and procedures a Maintains local risk a Internal audit and to share best practice with others, management plans a External audit helps to support our open style culture.
a Implements key risk a Insurance In addition, in 2016 we implemented a mitigation plans a Risk surveys web-based incident reporting system which has increased the reporting of issues related to health and safety, Assurance lines of defence business continuity, environment etc.
12 3 This is allowing us to gain valuable insight Business Line and business Group Independent on areas which need further control unit management support assurance strengthening, and ultimately reduce ourrisk exposure.
