PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IDENTIFYING, PRIORITISING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS TO SUPPORT OUR GOALS AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The Board has performed a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, taking into account the Groups strategic objectives, business model, operations, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
All principal risks identified by the Board may have an impact on our strategic business objectives.
These principal risks are described in the table that follows, together with the relevant strategic business objectives, key risk drivers and trends, material controls that have been put in place to mitigate and the mitigation actions we have taken.
It is recognised that the Group is exposed to risks wider than those listed.
We disclose those we believe are likely to have the greatest impact on our business at this moment in time and which have been discussed in depth at recent Board, Audit or Risk Committee meetings.
It is not possible to fully mitigate all of our risks.
Any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
CURRENCY AND MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPAL RISK Depreciation of the Lari against the Dollar and macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia may have UNCERTAINTY a material impact on our loan book.
KEY DRIVERS In 2016, the Lari depreciated against the Dollar by 10%.
The Lari was particularly weak in Q4 2016 when it depreciated TRENDS against the Dollar by over 13%.
The depreciation has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the quality of our loan portfolio as well as increase the cost of credit risk and impairment provisions.
This is because our corporate and MSME loan book and mortgage portfolio are heavily Dollar-denominated and many of our customers earnings are in Lari.
The creditworthiness of our customers may be adversely by the depreciation, which could result in them having difficulty repaying their loans.
The depreciation of the Lari may also affect the adversely affect the value of our customers collateral.
As at 31 December 2016, approximately 83%, 65% and 57% of our corporate, MSME and retail excluding MSME gross loans, respectively, were denominated in foreign currency predominantly Dollars, while Dollar income covered approximately 26% of total gross loans.
Euro-denominated loans comprise only 2% of our foreign currency-denominated gross loans.
Our Banking Business cost of credit risk increased by 11.2% from 2015 to 2016, principally due to the depreciation of the Lari.
Macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, such as GDP, inflation and interest rates, may have a material impact on loan losses, our margins and customer demand for our products and services.
Real GDP growth in Georgia was modest at 2.7% in 2016, slightly down from 2.9% in 2015, according to Geostat.
Despite growth below potential, Georgias economy has remained resilient despite the external shock related to low world commodity prices, which have affected the economy negatively since the end of 2014 through reduced exports and remittances.
Inflation has also remained low.
MITIGATION The Asset and Liability Management Committee sets our open currency position limits and the Banks proprietary trading position limits, which are currently more conservative than those imposed by the National Bank of Georgia NBG, our regulator.
The Treasury Department manages our open currency position on a day-to-day basis.
The open currency position is also monitored by the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department.
In order to assess the creditworthiness of our customers, we take into account currency volatility when there is a currency mismatch between the customers loan and revenue.
We allocate 75% more capital to the foreign currency loans of clients who earn income in Lari and discount real estate collateral values by 20%.
The maturities of our foreign currency loans are also shorter.
Our Credit Committees and Credit Risk Management Department set counterparty limits by using a credit risk classification and scoring system and approving individual transactions.
The credit quality review process is continuous and provides early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers, including regular collateral revaluations, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce risk, which may include obtaining additional collateral in accordance with underlying loan agreements.
Since the beginning of 2016, we have focused on increasing local currency lending.
We actively work with IFIs to raise long-term Lari funding to increase our Lari-denominated loans to customers.
As a result, our Lari-denominated loan book increased by 27.8% while our foreign currency-denominated loan book increased by 11.5% in constant currency terms.
Applicable from the beginning of 2017, the NBG expanded the list of assets that banks are permitted to use as collateral for REPO transactions, which provides an additional funding source for our Lari-denominated loan book.
36 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC CORPORATE LOAN PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE PRINCIPAL RISK Our corporate banking loan portfolio is larger than our target retail corporate mix and remains concentrated.
UNCERTAINTY It is also subject to cyclicality of certain economic sectors.
This exposes us to increased cost of credit risk and impairment charges, if a single large borrower defaults or a material concentration of smaller borrowers default.
KEY DRIVERS As at 31 December 2016, corporate loans accounted for 39% of total gross loans and loans to our ten largest borrowers TRENDS represented 11.8% of total gross loans.
Our corporate loan portfolio is also exposed to certain cyclical economic sectors, such as trade of consumer durables retail trade of cars, construction and real estate development, as well as to certain commodities, such as gold and ammonium nitrate.
MITIGATION We are continuing to implement our strategy to reduce the size of and fide-concentrate our corporate loan portfolio and will continue to do so until our targets are met.
At the same time, we are also taking various steps to reduce our credit risk.
Corporate loans accounted for 45% of total gross loans as at 31 December 2015 and reduced to and 39% of total gross loans as at 31 December 2016.
Loans to our ten largest borrowers represented 12.7% of total gross loans as at 31 December 2015 and reduced to 11.8% one year later.
We aim to further reduce: the share of corporate lending to 35%: and the proportion of our loans to our top ten borrowers to 10%.
In order to reduce our credit risk, we: reduce our large guarantee exposures in the construction sector: increase our collateral from our top borrowers: securitise our corporate loans: manage the issuance of Lari-denominated bonds by our large corporate borrowers: and maintain well-diversified loan book sector concentration.
Our Credit Committees continuously perform credit quality reviews in order to provide early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of our customers, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce our risk.
REGIONAL TENSIONS PRINCIPAL RISK The Georgian economy and our business may be adversely affected by regional tensions.
UNCERTAINTY Georgia shares borders with Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey and has two breakaway territories, Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia.
There has been ongoing geopolitical tension, political instability, civil disturbances and military conflict in the region.
Prolongation or escalation of such conflicts could have a negative effect on the political or economic stability of Georgia.
KEY DRIVERS Russia imposed economic sanctions on Georgia in 2006, and conflict between the countries escalated in 2008 when TRENDS Russian forces crossed Georgian borders.
Tensions persist as Russian troops continue to occupy Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia regions after having recognised the independence of these regions.
The crisis in Ukraine began in late 2013 and is still ongoing, directly and adversely affecting the economies of both Ukraine and Russia.
Sanctions by the United States against Russia continue and there is uncertainty as to how and when the conflict between Russia and Ukraine the countries will be resolved.
In late 2015, relations between Russia and Turkey quickly deteriorated after an airspace dispute close to the Syria-Turkey border.
In 2016, the relationship between the two countries began to improve, with Russia partially lifting the economic sanctions it had imposed against Turkey and the countries coordinating efforts in the fight against extremist groups in Syria.
Following the recent use of chemical weapons in Syria, tensions have renewed between the countries.
Conflict remains unabated between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
MITIGATION One of the most significant changes in the Georgian export market was a shift away from the Russian market after Russias 2006 embargo.
Despite tensions in the breakaway territories, Russia has continued to open its export market to Georgian exports since 2013.
While lower global commodity prices and macroeconomic factors have affected Georgias regional trading partners, leading to lower exports within the region, Georgia has benefited from increased exports earnings from non-traditional markets such as Switzerland, China, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Singapore.
It is expected that the IMF will approve a new three-year US$ 285 million economic programme this month, aimed at preserving macroeconomic and financial stability and addressing structural weaknesses in the Georgian economy to support higher and inclusive growth.
During 2016, Georgia delivered real GDP growth of 2.7%, whilst inflation decreased from 2015 and remained well controlled at 1.8% at the end of 2016.
Foreign direct investment continued to be solid and tourist arrivals, a significant driver of Dollar inflows for the country, continued to increase.
Tax revenues increased 9.7% y-o-y and were above the budgeted figure for 2016.
The Georgian Governments fiscal position continues to be strong.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 37 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED REGULATORY RISK PRINCIPAL RISK The Group operates across a wide range of industries, principally banking, but also healthcare services, UNCERTAINTY pharma, insurance, real estate, water and energy utility, hydro, wine and beverages.
Many of these industries are highly regulated.
The regulatory environment continues to evolve.
We, however, cannot predict what additional regulatory changes will be introduced in the future or the impact they may have on our operations.
KEY DRIVERS Our banking operations must comply with capital adequacy and other regulatory ratios set by our regulator, the NBG, TRENDS including reserve requirements and mandatory financial ratios.
Our ability to comply with existing or amended NBG requirements may be affected by a number of factors, including those outside of our control, such as our ability to raise capital, losses resulting from deterioration in our asset quality as well as weakening of the global and Georgian economies.
Each of our Investment Businesses is subject to different regulators and regulation.
Legislation in certain industries such as healthcare and energy and utilities are continuously evolving.
Different changes, including but not limited to Governmental funding, licensing and accreditation requirements and tariff structures may adversely affect our businesses.
MITIGATION Continued investment in our people and processes is enabling us to meet our current regulatory requirements and means that we are well placed to respond to any future changes in regulation.
In line with our integrated control framework, we carefully evaluate the impact of legislative and regulatory changes as part of our formal risk identification and assessment processes and, to the extent possible, proactively participate in the drafting of relevant legislation.
As part of this process, we engage in constructive dialogue with regulatory bodies, where possible, and seek external advice on potential changes to legislation.
We then develop appropriate policies, procedures and controls as required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
Our compliance framework, at all levels, is subject to regular review by internal audit and external assurance providers.
CYBER SECURITY, INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND FINANCIAL CRIME PRINCIPAL RISK We are at risk of experiencing cyber-security breaches, unauthorised access to our systems and financial UNCERTAINTY crime, which could disrupt our customer services, result in financial loss, have legal or regulatory implications and or affect our reputation.
We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our risk management, internal controls and systems, including those related to IT and information security in order to manage these threats.
KEY DRIVERS Cyber-security threats have increased y-o-y and 2016 saw a number of major organisations subject to cyber-attacks.
TRENDS Fortunately, our operations have not been affected.
The external threat profile is continuously changing and threats continue to increase.
Over the past few years, as our operations have expanded, we have seen an increase in electronic crimes, including fraud, although losses have not increased significantly.
Money laundering has also increased globally in recent years.
MITIGATION We have an integrated control framework encompassing operational risk management and control, IT and information security and Anti-Money Laundering AML compliance, each of which is managed by a separate department.
We identify and assess operational risk categories within our risk management framework and internal control processes, identifying critical risk areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level.
In response to these risks, we develop and implement policies and security procedures to mitigate these risks.
We have security controls in place including policies, procedures and security technologies.
We also regularly carry out IT and information security checks internally and with the assistance of external consultants.
We have sophisticated anti-virus protection and firewalls to deny the execution of potentially malicious software.
We have increased our internal and external penetration testing and have back-up disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place across the Group.
Access control and password protections have been improved through the implementation of Privileged Access Monitoring for employees with the highest privileged access to confidential and customer data.
We continue to invest in technology to enhance our ability to prevent, detect and respond to increasing and evolving threats.
Our Internal Audit function provides assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management, internal controls and systems in place.
These types of operational risk are on the regular agenda for the Audit Committee and are also frequently discussed at the Board level.
38 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC INVESTMENT BUSINESS STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISK Our Investment Businesses may underperform and other factors beyond our control may affect our ability UNCERTAINTY to divest them in line with our strategy.
Our Investment Businesses have growth and expansion strategies and we face execution risk in implementing these strategies.
Our Investment Business Strategy is to divest an Investment Business in full or partially within six years in order to unlock the value for our shareholders.
In order for an Investment Business to be divestment ready, targets in respect of EBITDA margin, revenue growth, market share, IRR and capital return must be achieved and the business must be led by strong management and have a culture of good corporate governance among other things.
With respect to future divestments by way of a stock market listing or trade sale, we face potential exit risks, as it may not be possible, or desirable, to divest our other investment businesses in line with our strategy due to a number of factors, including supportive equity issuance markets, the ability to achieve favourable terms for an IPO or trade sale as the case may be and or the political and macroeconomic environment.
KEY DRIVERS We have a solid track record of growth.
TRENDS The Groups market capitalisation has grown from GBP 380 million in 2012 when we listed on the London Stock Exchange, to over GBP 1.2 billion as at the date of this Annual Report.
We successfully completed the IPO of our healthcare business, GHG, through a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2015.
GHG has grown its revenue from GEL 119.4 million in 2012 to GEL 426.4 million in 2016.
It has also doubled its market capitalisation sine listing.
2 m Real Estate, our real estate subsidiary and currently the major real estate developer in Georgia, started its first 2 residential development in 2010.
Since then, m Real Estate has recorded total sales of US$ 172.9 million and has completed six residential projects with 97% of apartments sold and has four ongoing projects, with 35% apartments pre-sold.
In July 2016, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 75% equity stake in GGU.
Our beverages business, Teliani, finished the construction of a beer production facility in 2016 and acquired a ten-year exclusive licence to sell Heineken in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Our investment businesses are aiming to deliver solid further growth through organic growth as well as potential acquisitions.
MITIGATION The Group has a strong track record of growth and has accessed the capital markets on multiple occasions.
Our acquisition history has also been successful and we have been able to integrate businesses due to strong management with integration experience.
For each business, we focus on building a strong management team and have successfully been able to do so thus far.
Management succession planning is a regular agenda for the Nomination Committee and the Board as whole.
We closely monitor the implementation of strategy, financial and operational performance, risk management and internal control framework and corporate governance structure of our businesses.
We hold management accountable for meeting targets.
For each industry in which we operate, we closely monitor industry trends, market conditions and regulatory environment.
We have also sought and continue to seek advice from experienced global professionals in our industries.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 39 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
