BANK RISK MANAGEMENT The banking business is the principal driver of the Groups revenue and operates in the complex financial services sector its risk management and internal control framework is fundamental to that of the Group.
OVERVIEW BANK RISK MANAGEMENT BODIES assessing the reliability and security The BGEO Board, supported by our BGEO The principal risk management bodies of the Bank of financial information Audit and Risk Committees and management, are the: Supervisory Board, Audit Committee, monitoring the Banks internal controls is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk Management Board, Risk Committee, Internal and reporting procedures management and internal controls.
Audit, Treasury Committee, Credit Committee, making recommendations to management Asset and Liability Management Committee and the Audit Committee on the basis of Formal policies and procedures have been the ALCO, Compliance and the Banks Legal internal audits to improve internal controls developed at the BGEO level, with the help of Department.
Each of the Supervisory Board, monitoring the compliance of the Bank senior management, which explain the way in Audit Committee and Risk Committee perform with the NBG regulations which risks need to be systematically identified, similar roles as the BGEO Board, BGEO Audit monitoring the implementation of auditors assessed, quantified, managed and monitored.
Committee and BGEO Risk Committee, but recommendations on the Bank level.
Please refer to the diagram Clearly delegated authority levels and reporting at the bottom of page 41.
Treasury is responsible for managing lines have been established and comprehensive the Banks assets and liabilities and its overall reporting forms an integral part of the BGEO Management Board.
The Management financial structure and is also primarily responsible risk management framework and internal Board has overall responsibility for the Banks for managing funding and liquidity risks of control processes.
asset, liability and risk management activities, the Bank.
In order to effectively Each business participates in the risk implement the risk management system, the Credit Committee.
The Bank has three credit management process by identifying the Management Board delegates individual risk committees together, the Credit Committees, key risks applicable to its business.
management functions to each of the various each one supervising and managing the Banks decision-making and execution bodies within credit risks in respect of loans for retail and A detailed description of the BGEO risk the Bank.
wealth management clients, corporate loans management control framework can be found and counterparty loans.
These three committees on pages 34 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
The Internal Audit are: the Retail Banking Committee, the Corporate Department is responsible for the regular audit Banking Credit Committee and the Financial and The work undertaken by the Banks risk of the Banks risk management, internal control Governmental Counterparty Risk Management management bodies feeds back directly to BGEO and certain banking-related risks have and corporate governance processes, with the Committee FGCRMC.
FGCRMC manages, been identified in the Groups Principal Risks aim of reducing the levels of operational and monitors and controls counterparty risk of and Uncertainties, which can be found on other risks, auditing the Banks internal control financial and Governmental counterparties pages 36 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
systems and detecting infringements or errors of Bank of Georgia.
Each Credit Committee on the part of the Banks departments and approves individual loan transactions.
Given the significance of the banking business, the divisions.
It examines both the adequacy of and risk management and internal control framework the Banks compliance with those procedures.
Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers in place at the Bank is described in this section.
The Banks Internal Audit Department discusses of subcommittees.
The FGCRMC comprises the results of all assessments with management two tiers of subcommittees.
The Committee THE ROLE OF THE BANK IN THE OVERALL and reports its findings and recommendations consists of five members Chief Risk Officer, RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE to the Banks Audit Committee.
Chief Financial Officer, Head of Quantitative Management of risk is fundamental to the Risk Management, Head of Treasury and banking business and is an essential element The Banks Internal Audit Department is Head of Trade Finance, and a majority of votes of the Groups operations.
independent of the Banks Management is enough for approval.
If the potential exposure Board.
The Head of the Banks Internal Audit exceeds US$ 10.0 million, then the decision The main risks inherent in the Banks operations Department is appointed by the Banks is deferred to the ALCO.
The Credit Committee are credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk including Supervisory Board and reports directly to the for retail loans comprises four tiers of currency and foreign exchange rate risks, Banks Audit Committee.
For risk management operational risk and legal risk.
The following Audit Department audits all of the Banks purposes, loans for wealth management clients is a description of the Banks risk management subsidiaries, apart from BNB, which has its are classified as retail loans.
The Credit policies and procedures in respect to those own internal audit department.
Committee for corporate loans comprises three risks.
Business risks such as changes in the tiers of subcommittees.
Participation of the environment, technology and industry are As part of its auditing procedures, the Banks CEO is required for exposures exceeding monitored through the Groups strategic Internal Audit Department is responsible for US$ 10.0 million.
All exposures to single group planning process.
the following: borrowers over US$ 25.0 million require approval by the Supervisory Board.
Lower tier The Banks risk management system is identifying and assessing potential risks subcommittees meet on a daily basis, whereas based on the principle of continually assessing regarding the Banks operations higher tier ones typically meet three to four risk throughout the life of any operation and reviewing the adequacy of the existing times a week.
Each of the subcommittees includes such stages as: controls established in order to ensure of the credit committees makes its decisions compliance with the Banks policies, plans, by a majority vote of its respective members.
risk identification procedures and business objectives, as Since 2016, SME falls within corporate credit qualitative and quantitive assessment well as to current legislation and regulation committee structure, where loans up to of a particular risk and professional norms and ethics US$ 1.5 million are approved by credit risk determination of an acceptable risk level developing internal auditing standards managers.
Micro loans up to US$ 50,000 placement of authority limits and creation and methodologies are approved by retail credit underwriting and of reserves carrying out planned and random loans from US$ 50,000 to US$ 150,000 by use of collateral inspections of the Banks branches and credit risk managers.
ongoing monitoring and control allowing subdivisions and auditing its subsidiaries efficient adjustments in case of any negative analysing the quality of the Banks products changes in the conditions on which the reviewing the reliability of the Banks preliminary risk assessment was made information technology systems in analysis of efficiency of the risk management accordance with a predetermined schedule system 40 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC CREDIT COMMITTEE TIERS OF SUBCOMMITTEES FOR RETAIL AND CORPORATE BANKING LOANS Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 2.0 million for existing and new borrowers Tier II Deputy CRO Head of the Credit Risk Department Between US$ 2.0 million and US$ 10 million for existing and new borrowers Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$ 10 million for existing and new borrowers Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 200,000 Tier II Head of Portfolio Quality Analysis Unit Between US$ 200,000 and US$ 500,000 for retail loans Tier III Deputy CRO Between US$ 500,000 and US$ 2.0 million Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$ 2.0 million The Problem Assets Committee is chaired by Asset and Liability Management Committee The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and sits at one of the following: 1st level the Head of ALCO.
The ALCO is the core risk management any time deemed necessary, with decisions the Problem Loan Management Department: body that establishes policies and guidelines made by a majority vote of its members.
and 2nd and 3rd level the Deputy CEO Chief with respect to capital adequacy, market risks ALCO members include the CEO, Deputy Risk Officer.
The Problem Loan Management and respective limits, funding liquidity risk and CEO Finance, Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, Department manages the Banks exposures to respective limits, interest rate and prepayment Deputy CEO Corporate and Investment problem loans and reports to the Deputy CEO risks and respective limits, money market general Banking, Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, the Chief Operations Officer.
terms and credit exposure limits, designs and Head of the Finance Department, the Head implements respective risk management and of the Treasury Department and the Head of The Litigation Team Committee is chaired by stress testing models in practice and regularly the Funding Department.
The ALCO reviews one of the following: 1st level Deputy Head monitors compliance with the pre-set risk limits, financial reports and indices including the of the Legal Department Head of the Litigation and approves treasury deals with non-standard Banks limits ratios, balance sheet, statement Team: 2nd level Head of the Legal Department: terms.
Specifically, ALCO: of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, 3rd level Head of the Credit Risk Management currency gap, foreign exchange risk, interest Department: and the 4th level Deputy CEO sets money-market credit exposure rate risk and funding liquidity risk reports, Chief Risk Officer.
This Committee is responsible lending limits total cash flow analyses, customer cash flow to take decisions on the cases which are sets open currency position limits with analysis and concentration risk analysis, for managed by the Litigation Team and are respect to overnight and intraday positions the past periods as well as future projections subject of litigation.
establishes stop-loss limits for foreign and forecasts, other financial analysis and currency operations and securities further growth projections on a monthly basis.
The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired monitors compliance with the established by the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer and risk management models for foreign Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are is responsible for monitoring all of the Banks exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding set by the National Bank of Georgia NBG and exposures to loans that are being managed liquidity risk are applied to the Bank on a stand-alone basis.
by the Corporate Recovery Department.
sets ranges of interest rates for different NBG requires the Bank to maintain a minimum The Corporate Recovery Department reports maturities at which the Bank may place Total Capital Adequacy ratio of 10.5% of to the Deputy CEO Corporate Banking.
its liquid assets and attracts funding risk-weighted assets and a minimum Tier I reviews different stress tests and capital Capital Adequacy ratio of 8.5% of risk-weighted adequacy models prepared by the Finance assets, both computed based on the Banks Department and FGCRMC stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with NBG regulations and pronouncements.
RISK MANAGEMENT BODIES OF BANK OF GEORGIA Risk Committee Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Bank of Georgia Internal Audit Asset and Liability Credit Committee Management Board Management Committee Quantitive risk Credit risk Operational risk Anti-money Treasury Legal management and management management laundering risk analytics Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 41 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview BANK RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED On 30 June 2014, the NBG introduced a new assessments of the Banks AML systems The Operational Risk Management and Control regulation aimed at replacing its old regulation, and provides independent assurance of Department identifies and assesses operational which was developed independently from internal controls.
risk categories within the Banks processes and international committees and organisations and operations.
It also detects critical risk areas or was not based on the Basel Accord.
The new The Bank has adopted a risk-based approach groups of operations with an increased risk capital regulation is based on the Basel Accord in its policies and procedures aimed at level and develops internal control procedures 2 3, with material regulatory discretions applied preventing money laundering and terrorist to address these risks, through among other by the NBG.
Pillar 1 requirements of the new financing, including a general anti-money things business-process optimisation regulation came into force on 30 June 2014. laundering policy and rules on counteracting schemes, including document circulation, The period starting 30 June 2014 through money laundering and financing of individuals information streams, distribution of functions, 31 December 2017 was declared as a and legal entities engaged in terrorist activities, permissions and responsibility.
During the transition period as well as procedures for reporting to the the Bank will be required to comply with both Financial Monitoring Service of Georgia FMS, The Legal Department monitors all changes old and new capital regulations of the NBG.
a legal entity of public law.
The Banks in relevant laws and regulations, and ensures No definite plans for introduction of Pillar II risk-based approach means that it applies that those changes are properly reflected in of the Basel Accord 2 3, which entails enhanced due diligence procedures if it the Banks procedures, instructions, manuals, implementation of the Internal Capital Adequacy determines that there is a significant risk that templates and other relevant documentation.
Process ICAAP, have yet been communicated particular customers are engaged in money It also disseminates information on legislative by NBG.
The old regulation will be completely laundering or financing terrorism.
changes to all relevant departments within the phased out by 1 January 2018.
The Legal Department also participates The Bank is obliged to notify the FMS of all in drafting laws and regulatory documents upon ALCO is the key governing body for capital transactions that are subject to monitoring.
request of legislators and regulators, certain adequacy management as well as for These reports are currently filed in electronic associations and other professional bodies.
respective risks identification and management.
form in an offline mode by the AML Compliance ALCO establishes limits and reviews actual Department.
The reporting process is fully The Tax Compliance Unit of the Finance performance over those limits for both NBG automated and is supported by a special Department focuses on the Banks relationship as well as Basel I capital adequacy regulations.
with the tax authorities and provides practical The Finance Department is in charge of regular advice and monitors tax compliance across monthly monitoring of and reporting on NBG BODIES IMPLEMENTING THE the Group.
and Basel I capital adequacy compliance with RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM original pronouncements as well as with ALCO The Banks risk management system is Each of the foregoing departments is provided policies.
Capital adequacy management is implemented by the Finance Department, with policies and or manuals that are approved an integral part of the Banks monthly reporting Quantitative Risk Management and Risk by the Bank Management Board and or the as well as the Banks annual and semi-annual Analytics Department, Treasury, Credit Risk Bank Supervisory Board as required.
The budget approval and budget review processes.
Management, Operational Risk Management manuals and policies include comprehensive The Finance Department prepares NBG and and Control, Legal, AML Compliance and guidance for each stage of a transaction, Basel I and Basel II III capital adequacy actual Security departments and other departments.
including, but not limited to, manuals outlining reports as well as their forecasts and budgets, The Reporting and Analysis Unit reports to the asset and liability management policies, as well as different stress scenarios for both Head of the Finance Department.
The Finance foreign exchange operations procedures, fixed regulations, while ALCO and the Management Department and the Treasury Department, as income investment guidelines, Retail Banking Board regularly review them, identify risks, issue well as AML Compliance Department report operations procedures, the deposit policy and recommendations or propose action plans.
to the Deputy CEO Finance.
Risk Management CB Portfolio Analysis, Legal Department.
The Legal Departments Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Risk measurement and reporting.
The Bank principal purposes are to ensure that the Banks Analytics Department and Operational Risk measures risk using a method which reflects activities conform to applicable legislation and Management and Control Departments report both the expected loss likely to arise in normal to minimise losses from the materialisation of to the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer and circumstances and unexpected losses, which legal risks.
The Legal Department is responsible Legal Department reports to the Deputy CEO are an estimate of the ultimate actual loss for the application and development of Chief Operating Officer.
based on different forecasting models.
These mechanisms for identifying legal risks in the models use probabilities derived from historical Banks activities in a timely manner, the The Quantitative Risk Management and experience, adjusted from time to time to reflect investigation of the Banks activities in order Risk Analytics Department, in coordination the economic environment.
The Bank also runs to identify any legal risks, the planning and with the Treasury, implements the Banks worst case scenarios that could arise in the implementation of all necessary actions for the market risk policies by ensuring compliance event that extreme events, however unlikely, elimination of identified legal risks, participation with established open currency position limits, do, in fact, occur.
in legal proceedings on behalf of the Bank counterparty limits, VAR limits on possible where necessary and the investigation of losses and the interest rate policy set by Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily possibilities for increasing the effectiveness the ALCO.
performed based on limits established by the of the Banks legal documentation and its Bank.
These limits reflect the business strategy implementation in the Banks daily activities.
The Treasury Department manages foreign and market environment of the Bank, as well The Legal Department is also responsible for currency exchange, money market, securities as the level of risk that it is willing to accept, providing legal support to structural units of portfolio and derivatives operations and with additional emphasis on selected industries.
the Bank and or its subsidiaries.
monitors compliance with the limits set by The Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring the ALCO for these operations.
The Treasury and control, allowing efficient adjustments Anti-Money Laundering AML Compliance.
Department is also responsible for management in case of any unexpected changes in the The Banks AML Compliance Department of short-term liquidity and treasury cash flow conditions on which the preliminary risk is responsible for the implementation of the and monitors the volumes of cash in the Banks assessment was made.
In addition, the Bank Banks AML programme including the ATMs and at its service centres.
monitors and measures the overall risk-bearing development of AML policies and procedures, capacity in relation to the aggregate risk transaction monitoring and reporting and The Credit Risk Management department exposure across all risk types and activities.
employee training throughout the Bank and manages credit risks with respect to particular its subsidiaries.
The AML programme is based borrowers and assesses overall loan portfolio The Group maintains a management reporting on recommendations and requirements of risks.
It is responsible for ensuring compliance system which requires the Credit Risk Management, international organisations including FATF and with the Banks Credit Policies and management Finance and Funding Departments to prepare OFAC, as well as local regulations.
The Banks of the quality of the Banks loan portfolio.
certain reports on a daily and monthly basis.
Internal Audit Department makes annual 42 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC On a daily basis, a statement of operations, CREDIT RISK LOAN APPROVAL PROCEDURES balance sheet and treasury report which Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a borrower The procedures for approving loans, monitoring includes the Banks open foreign exchange or counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in loan quality and for extending, refinancing positions, cash flows, limits and balances full or in part when due.
Credit risk arises mainly and or restructuring existing loans are set out on NOSTRO and LORO correspondent in the context of the Banks lending activities.
in the Banks Credit Policies that are approved accounts and confirmation that there has by the Supervisory Board of the Bank and or been compliance with mandatory financial Mitigation: The general principles of the Banks the Management Board of the Bank.
The Credit ratios must be provided by each department.
credit policy are outlined in the Credit Policies.
On a monthly basis, a report on the structural The Credit Policies also outline credit risk The Bank evaluates Corporate Banking clients liquidity gap, a report on interest rate risk, control and monitoring procedures and the on the basis of their financial condition, credit monthly financial statements and a Bank Banks credit risk management systems.
The history, business operations, market position, Supervisory Board quarterly report containing Credit Policies are reviewed annually or more management, level of shareholder support, analysis of the Banks performance against frequently if necessary.
As a result of these proposed business and financing plan and on its budget are provided.
reviews, new loan restructuring tools were the quality of the collateral offered.
The Bank also uses the NBGs level of the relevant Credit Committee is Information compiled from all the businesses provisioning methodology in order to comply responsible for making the decision for loan is examined and processed in order to analyse, with NBG requirements.
approval based on credit memorandum and, control and identify early risks.
This information where appropriate, Credit Risk Managers is presented and explained to the Management The Bank manages its credit risk by placing report.
The loan approval procedures for Retail Board and the head of each business division.
limits on the amount of risk accepted with Banking loans depend on the type of retail The report includes aggregate credit exposure, respect to individual corporate borrowers lending product.
liquidity ratios and risk profile changes.
or groups of related borrowers, liability of Management assesses the appropriateness insurance companies, types of banking Applications for consumer loans, including of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly operations and by complying with the exposure credit cards and auto loans, are treated under basis.
The Bank Management Board and limits established by the NBG.
The Bank the scoring approval procedure.
While certain Supervisory Board receive a comprehensive monitors the market value of collateral, requests loans of up to GEL 20,000 are approved by risk report once a quarter which is designed additional collateral in accordance with the the scoring system, the appropriate Credit to provide all the necessary information to underlying agreement and monitors the market Committee will determine the amount, terms assess and draw conclusions on the Banks value of collateral obtained during its review and conditions of other loans.
of the adequacy of the allowance for loan mortgage loans by Retail Banking clients are impairment.
The Bank also mitigates its credit completed by the mortgage loan officer and Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared risk by obtaining collateral and using other submitted to the Credit Risk Manager, who and distributed for all levels throughout the security arrangements.
The exposure to financial evaluates the credit risks and determines the Bank in order to ensure that all business institutions is managed by limits covering on and amount, terms and conditions of the loan, divisions have access to extensive, relevant off-balance sheet exposures and by settlement which must be approved at the appropriate and up-to-date information.
A daily briefing limits with respect to trading transactions such Credit Committee level.
In the case of micro is given to the Bank Management Board and as foreign exchange contracts.
financing loans, officers evaluate loan all other relevant employees of the Bank on applications, prepare a project analysis and the utilisation of market limits, proprietary The Credit Committees approve individual submit proposals to the appropriate Credit investments and liquidity, plus any other transactions and the Credit Risk Management Committee which makes the final decision.
Department establish their credit risk categories Credit Committee members have equal voting and provisioning rates, which are set as per authority and decisions are approved by RISK MITIGATION AND EXCESSIVE provisioning methodology.
The Deputy CEO a simple majority of votes.
RISK CONCENTRATION Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk As part of its overall risk management, the Management Department reviews the credit COLLATERAL Bank uses derivatives and other instruments quality of the portfolio and sets provisioning The Bank typically requires credit support or to manage exposures resulting from changes rates, in consultation with the Banks CEO and collateral as security for the loans and credit in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit risks, Deputy CEO Finance, on a monthly basis.
The main forms of credit and exposures arising from forward transactions.
support are guarantees and rights to claim While these derivatives are intended for hedging, The Banks credit quality review process amounts on the borrowers current account they do not qualify for hedge accounting.
provides early identification of possible changes with the Bank or other assets.
The main forms in the creditworthiness of counterparties, of collateral for corporate lending are charges The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce its including regular collateral revaluations.
over real estate properties, equipment, inventory credit risks.
Counterparty limits are established by the use and trade receivables and the main form of of a credit risk classification system, which collateral for retail lending is a mortgage over In order to avoid excessive concentrations assigns a risk rating to each counterparty.
In the case of corporate loans, of risks, the Bank focuses on maintaining Risk ratings are subject to regular revision.
The the Bank usually requires a personal guarantee a diversified portfolio.
Concentrations arise credit quality review process allows the Bank surety from the borrowers shareholders.
Under when a number of counterparties, or related to assess the potential loss as a result of the the Banks internal guidelines, collateral should shareholders, are engaged in similar business risks to which it is exposed and take corrective be provided where it is required to cover activities, or activities in the same geographic action.
The Bank makes available to its outstanding liabilities during the entire duration region, or have similar economic features that customers guarantees letters of credit which of a transaction.
As of 31 December 2016, would cause their ability to meet contractual may require that the Bank make payments on 85.3% of the Groups loans to clients were obligations to be similarly affected by changes their behalf.
Such payments are collected from collateralised.
An evaluation report of the in economic, political or other conditions.
customers based on the terms of the proposed collateral is prepared by the Asset Concentrations also involve combined, guarantee letter of credit.
They expose the Appraisal and Disposal Department and aggregate exposures of large and significant Bank to similar risks to loans and these are submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, credits compared to total outstanding balance mitigated by the same control processes together with the loan application and Credit of the respective financial instrument.
When evaluating Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity collateral, the Bank discounts the market value of the Banks performance to developments of the assets to reflect the liquidation value affecting a particular industry or geographical of the collateral.
Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 43 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview BANK RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED MEASUREMENT LIQUIDITY RISK set aside as minimum reserves.
In addition, the Exposure and limits are subject to annual or Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank maintains a minimum average balance of more frequent review.
The Banks compliance Bank will be unable to meet its payment 7% of its customers deposits in Georgian Lari with credit risk exposure limits is monitored obligations when they fall due under normal at its correspondent account at the NBG.
by the Credit Risk Management Department and stress circumstances.
For wholesale funding, the NBG requires the on a continuous basis.
The Bank establishes Bank to set aside 20% of its unsubordinated provisions for impairment losses of financial Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through foreign currency wholesale funding for assets on collective basis and on individual the ALCO-approved liquidity framework.
Treasury borrowings with a remaining maturity of less basis when there is objective evidence that manages liquidity on a daily basis.
In order to than one year, 10% for borrowings with a a financial asset or group of financial assets manage liquidity risk, it performs daily monitoring remaining maturity of one to two years and 7% is impaired.
The Bank creates provisions by of future expected cash flows on customers and of its unsubordinated Georgian Lari wholesale reference to the particular borrowers financial banking operations, which is a part of the assets funding for borrowings with a remaining condition and the number of days the relevant liabilities management process.
The Finance maturity of less than one year.
If in a subsequent period the Department prepares and submits monthly amount of the impairment loss decreases reports to the ALCO.
The ALCO monitors the Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the and the decrease can be related objectively proportion of maturing funds available to meet majority of working capital loans are short term to an event occurring after the impairment deposit withdrawals and the amounts of and granted with the expectation of renewal was recognised, the previously recognised inter-bank and other borrowing facilities that at maturity.
As such, the ultimate maturity impairment loss is reversed by an adjusted should be in place to cover withdrawals at of assets may be different from the analysis provision account.
The determination unexpected levels of demand.
In addition, the maturity of provisions for impairment losses is based gap analysis does not reflect the historical on an analysis of the assets at risk and reflects The liquidity risk management framework stability of current accounts.
the amount which, in the judgement of the models the ability of the Bank to meet its Banks management, is adequate to provide payment obligations under both normal The Banks principal sources of liquidity are for losses incurred.
conditions and during a crisis situation.
The as follows: Bank has developed a model based on the Provisions are made against gross loan amounts Basel III liquidity guidelines.
This approach is deposits and accrued interest.
Under the Banks internal designed to ensure that the funding framework borrowings from international loan loss allowance methodology, which is is sufficiently flexible to ensure liquidity under credit institutions based upon IFRS requirements, the Bank a wide range of market conditions.
The liquidity inter-bank deposit agreement categorises its loan portfolio into significant management framework is reviewed from time debt issuances and non-significant loans.
Significant loans are to time to ensure it is appropriate to the Banks proceeds from sale of securities defined as loans in the amount of US$ 150,000 current and planned activities.
Such review principal repayments on loans or more and non-significant loans are defined encompasses the funding scenarios modelled, interest income as loans less than US$ 150,000.
The Credit the modelling approach, wholesale funding fee and commission income Risk Management Department makes an capacity, limit determination and minimum individual assessment of all defaulted significant holdings of liquid assets.
The liquidity framework As of 31 December 2016, the Groups total loans.
Non-defaulted significant loans are given is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval consolidated amounts due to customers was a collective assessment rate.
For the purposes by the Bank Management Board.
GEL 5,382.7 million US$ 2,033.7 million as of provisioning all loans are divided into different compared to GEL 4,751.4 million and GEL groups for example, mortgage, consumer, The Finance Department also undertakes 3,338.7 million as of 31 December 2015 and microfinancing loans.
an annual funding review that outlines the 2014, respectively and represented 50.9% current funding strategy for the coming year.
as compared to 59.1% and 56.2% as of Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other This review encompasses trends in global debt 31 December 2015 and 2014, respectively Georgian banks and with the Credit Information markets, funding alternatives, peer analysis, of the Groups total liabilities.
In accordance Group, a provider of credit information solutions, estimation of the Banks upcoming funding with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged established JSC Credit Info Georgia CIG requirements, estimated market funding capacity to repay such deposits upon demand of a that serves a centralised credit bureau in and a funding risk analysis.
In the case of early withdrawal, the Georgia.
Since 2009, all the participating plan is reviewed by the Bank Management interest on the deposit is foregone or reduced.
banks, insurance companies and microfinance Board and approved by the Bank Supervisory As of 31 December 2016, total amounts due organisations share and contribute positive and Board as part of the annual budget.
The to credit institutions and debt securities issued negative customer credit information with CIG.
Funding and Treasury Departments also review, were GEL 4,725.7 million US$ 1,785.5 million from time to time, different funding options and as compared to GEL 2,828.9 million and Non-corporate loans which are overdue for assess the refinancing risks of such options.
GEL 2,265.9 million as of 31 December 2015 more than 150 days are written off automatically, and 2014, respectively and represented 44.7% except for mortgage loans which, since June Mitigation: The Banks capability to discharge as compared to 35.2% and 38.1% as of 2009, are written-off once overdue for more its liabilities is dependent on its ability to realise 31 December 2015 and 2014, respectively of than 365 days.
Significant loans may be an equivalent amount of assets within the same the Groups total liabilities.
Amounts due to written-off following an assessment by the period of time.
The Bank maintains a portfolio credit institutions and debt securities are taken Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Credit of highly marketable and diverse assets that it from a wide range of counterparties.
Risk Management Department, in consultation believes can be easily liquidated in the event of with the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
an unforeseen interruption of cash flow.
It also The Bank Management Board believes that has committed lines of credit that it can access both the Groups and the Banks liquidity is to meet its liquidity needs.
Such lines of credit sufficient to meet each of their present are available through the NBGs refinancing requirements.
For information on the Groups facility.
In addition, the Bank maintains a cash liquid assets, liabilities and maturity profile of deposit obligatory reserve with the NBG, the the Groups financial liabilities as well as further amount of which depends on the level of information on the liquidity risk of the Group customer funds attracted.
As of 31 December see Note 29 of the Notes to the Consolidated 2016, in line with the NBGs requirements, 20% Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
of customer deposits in foreign currencies were 44 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC MARKET RISK The ALCO limits are more conservative than OPERATIONAL RISK Definition: The Bank is exposed to market NBGs requirements, which allow banks to keep Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss risk including currency exchange rate risk and open positions of up to 20.0% of regulatory arising from systems failure, human error, interest rate risk, which is the risk that the capital.
The Bank also applies sensitivity stress fraud or external events.
When controls fail to fair value or future cash flows of financial tests to its open currency positions to estimate perform, operational risks can cause damage to instruments will fluctuate due to changes in potential negative impact on its net assets reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, market variables.
Market risk exposure arises and earnings.
or lead to financial loss.
The Bank cannot from mismatches of maturity and currencies expect to eliminate all operational risks, but between the assets and liabilities, all of which Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure to through a control framework and by monitoring are exposed to market fluctuations.
interest rate risk as a result of lending at fixed and responding to potential risks, the Bank and floating interest rates in amounts and aims to manage the risks.
Controls include Mitigation: The general principles of the Banks for periods which differ from those of term effective segregation of duties, access, market risk management policy are set by the borrowings at fixed and floating interest rates.
authorisation and reconciliation procedures, ALCO.
The Bank aims to limit and reduce the Interest margins on assets and liabilities having staff education and training and assessment amount of possible losses on open market different maturities may increase or decrease processes, including the use of internal audit.
positions which may be incurred by the Bank as a result of changes in market interest rates.
due to negative changes in currency exchange Mitigation: The Bank manages its operational rates and interest rates.
The Bank classifies Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority risks by establishing, monitoring and continuously exposures to market risk into either trading or of the Banks assets and deposits have fixed improving its policies and procedures relating non-trading positions.
Trading and non-trading interest rates.
In order to minimise interest to the various aspects of the Banks cash, positions are managed and monitored using rate risk, the Bank monitors its interest rate payments, accounting, trading and core different sensitivity analyses.
In order to address repricing gap and maintains an interest rate processing operations and data back-up and these risks, the ALCO specifically establishes margin net interest income before impairment disaster recovery arrangements.
Value at Risk VAR limits on possible losses for of interest-earning assets divided by average each type of operation currently the VAR limit interest-earning assets sufficient to cover The Bank has an integrated control framework is set for foreign currency exchange operations operational expenses and risk premium.
Within encompassing operational risk management only and the Quantitative Risk Management limits approved by the Bank Supervisory Board, and control, AML compliance, corporate and and Risk Analytics monitors compliance with the ALCO approves ranges of interest rates for information security and physical security, each such limits.
different maturities at which the Bank may of which is managed by a separate department.
place assets and attract liabilities.
Compliance Currency exchange rate risk: Currency with the Banks interest rate policy is monitored The Operational Risk Management and Control exchange rate risk is the risk that the by the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Department is responsible for identification and value of a financial instrument will fluctuate Analytics Department.
assessment of operational risk categories within due to changes in foreign currency exchange the Banks processes and operations, detecting rates.
The Bank is exposed to the effects As of 31 December 2016, the Groups floating critical risk areas or groups of operations with of fluctuation in the prevailing foreign currency rate borrowings accounted for 15.8% of the an increased risk level, developing response exchange rates on its financial position.
actions and the imposition of restrictions in The Banks currency risk is calculated critical risk zones to mitigate identified risk and as an aggregate of open positions and The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, developing business-process optimisation is controlled by setting a VAR calculation which is the risk that the Bank will incur schemes, including document circulation, established by the ALCO with respect a financial loss because its customers and information streams, distribution of functions, to the Banks currency basket.
counterparties repay or request repayment permissions and responsibilities.
The earlier than expected, such as fixed rate Operational Risk Management and Control The Bank uses the historical simulation method mortgages when interest rates fall.
The Group Department is also responsible for developing based on 400-business-day statistical data.
reviews the prior history of early repayments by and updating policies and procedures and Its open currency positions are managed by calculating the weighted average effective rate ensuring that these policies and procedures the Treasury Department on a day-to-day basis of early repayments across each credit product, meet legal and regulatory requirements and and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk individually, applying these historical rates to help to ensure that material operating risks are Management and Risk Analytics Department.
the outstanding carrying amount of each loan within acceptable levels.
It also monitors and The ALCO sets open currency position limits product as of the reporting date and then periodically reviews the Banks internal control with respect to both overnight and intra-day multiplying the product by the weighted systems to detect errors or infringements by positions and stop-loss limits.
Currently, the average effective annual interest rates for each the Banks departments and divisions.
The Banks proprietary trading position is limited product.
This allows the Bank to calculate the Head of the Operational Risk Management by the ALCO to a maximum of 15.0% of the expected amount of unforeseen losses in the Department, who reports to the Deputy CEO Banks NBG total regulatory capital.
The open case of early repayments.
Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for the currency position is also limited by ALCO to oversight of the Banks operational risks.
an annual VAR of GEL 50 million for a one-day For further information on the Groups market trading period with a 95.0% tolerance threshold.
risk see Note 29 of the Notes to consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report.
BORROWED FUNDS MATURITY BREAKDOWN BANKING BUSINESS US$ million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Eurobonds 250.0 Senior Loans 162.3 84.8 58.6 32.0 44.1 7.7 5.6 3.6 5.4 Subordinated Loans 10.0 65.0 90.0 TOTAL 162.3 94.8 58.6 32.0 44.1 7.7 320.6 3.6 95.4 % OF TOTAL ASSETS 3.8% 2.2% 1.4% 0.8% 1.0% 0.2% 7.5% 0.1% 2.2% Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 45 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
