BGEO RISK MANAGEMENT CREATING A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY We identify, evaluate, manage and monitor the risks that we face through an integrated control framework supported by formal policies and procedures, clearly delegated authority levels and comprehensive reporting.
The Board confirms that our framework has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and is integrated into both our business planning and viability assessment processes.
OVERVIEW On a day-to-day basis, management is With respect to internal control over financial Our Board, supported by our Audit and responsible for the implementation of the reporting, including over the Groups consolidation Risk Committees and executive management, Groups risk management and other internal process, our financial procedures include a is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk control policies and procedures.
Based on our range of system, transactional and management management and internal controls.
risk culture, managers own the risks relevant oversight controls.
Our businesses prepare to their respective function.
For each risk identified detailed monthly management reports that We believe that in order to have an effective at any level of the business, the risk is measured, include analyses of their results along with risk management framework there needs mitigated if possible in accordance with our comparisons to relevant strategic plans, budgets, to be a strong risk management culture within policies and procedures and monitored.
These are presented the Group.
We have worked to ensure that Managers are required to report on identified to and reviewed by Executive management.
managing risk is engrained in our everyday risks and responses to such risks on a consistent Each quarter, the CFO of the Bank and other business activities.
We seek to create an and frequent basis.
Executive and senior members of the finance team discuss financial environment where there is openness and management regularly review the output from reporting and associated internal controls with transparency in how we make decisions and the bottom-up process by providing the Audit Committee, which reports significant manage risks and where business managers independent challenge and assessing the findings to the Board.
The Audit Committee are accountable for the risk management and implementation of the risk management and also reviews the quarterly, half-year and full-year internal control processes associated with their internal control policies and procedures.
financial statements and corresponding press activities.
Our culture also seeks to ensure that releases and provides feedback to the Board.
risk management is responsive, forward-looking Comprehensive reporting forms an integral The external and internal auditors attend each and consistent.
Our reporting process Audit Committee meeting and the Audit enables key risks to be escalated to the Committee meets regularly both with and OUR FRAMEWORK appropriate level of authority and provides without management present.
The Boards mandate includes determining the assurance to the Committees and the Board.
Groups risk appetite and risk tolerance as well Key developments affecting our principal risks Our Audit and Risk Committees monitor internal as monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the and associated mitigating actions are reviewed control over operating and compliance risk nature and extent of the main risks we face are quarterly or more often if necessary on an through discussions with the Chief Risk Officer consistent with our overall goals and strategic ad hoc basis if outside of the regular reporting and Head of Compliance and other executive objectives.
We develop risk management process by the Audit and Risk Committees, management on a quarterly basis.
Any key strategies which address the full spectrum of as appropriate, and the Board.
The principal issues identified are escalated to the Board.
risks that the Group faces.
We are accountable risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are The Board also receives regular presentations for reviewing the effectiveness of the systems identified through this process.
directly from the head of each business.
and processes of risk management and internal Important risk and internal control issues are control, with the Audit and Risk Committees A description of these principal risks and addressed in such presentations.
uncertainties, including to recent trends assisting in the discharge of this responsibility.
and outlook, as well as mitigation efforts, We also focus on the resolution of any internal The Groups internal audit function reviews can be found on pages 36 to 39 of the control failures that may arise, although no a number of areas of risk pursuant to a programme Strategic Report.
significant failures occurred during 2016 and approved by the Audit Committee.
Any the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
significant issues or risks arising from an Since the Bank is the Groups largest business internal audit review are reported to the Audit and operates in the complex financial services The Groups risk appetite is the amount and type Committee and appropriate actions are sector, its risk management and internal of risk that we are prepared to seek, accept or undertaken to ensure satisfactory resolution.
control framework is key to that of the Group.
Our risk appetite evolves over time to The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reflect new risks and changes in external market reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit A description of the Banks risk management developments and circumstances.
and internal control framework can be found on pages 34 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
Our control framework is the foundation for the Our systems of internal control are also delivery of effective risk management.
At the supported by our Whistleblowing Policy, INTERNAL CONTROL Board, Committee and executive management which allows employees to report concerns As mentioned above, our Board is responsible levels, we develop formal policies and procedures on an anonymous basis.
The Audit Committee for reviewing and approving the Groups which explain the way in which risks need to be approves the Whistleblowing Policy on an system of internal control and its adequacy systematically identified, assessed, quantified, annual basis and receives quarterly reports and effectiveness.
Controls are reviewed to managed and monitored.
We clearly delegate from the Head of Compliance on any significant ensure effective management of strategic, authority levels and reporting lines throughout issues raised.
financial, operational and compliance among each level of management.
Each business other risks we face.
Certain matters, such participates in the risk management process as the approval of major capital expenditure, by identifying the key risks applicable to its significant acquisitions or disposals and business.
Through executive and senior major contracts, among others, are reserved management, we ensure that our employees exclusively for the Board.
The full schedule of are given the appropriate training and matters specifically reserved for the Board can knowledge to perform their roles in line with be found on our website, at http: bgeo.
com the framework we have developed.
With respect to other matters, the Board is often assisted by both the Audit and Risk Committees.
34 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW and risk management systems were maintained mitigating our our key risks, especially as they Each year, we review the effectiveness of our and operated effectively throughout 2016 and evolve, also we will provide online training risk management processes and internal the period from year-end to the approval of this focused on the importance of risk management control systems, with the assistance of the Annual Report.
The review did not identify any and internal controls.
This review significant weaknesses or failings in the covers all material systems, including financial, systems.
We are satisfied that our risk COMMITTEE REPORTS operational and compliance controls.
The management processes and internal control As noted throughout this discussion, both the latest review covered the financial year to systems processes comply with the UK Audit and Risk Committees play an essential 31 December 2016 and the period from Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code role in implementing effective risk management year-end to the approval of this Annual Report.
and the Financial Reporting Council FRC s and internal control.
Each Committee has guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control described this work in its Committee report.
We obtained assurance from management, and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Internal Audit and other external specialists.
The Audit Committee Report and Risk Committee Although we did not identify any significant Report can be found on pages 89 to 93 and The Board is able to conclude with reasonable weaknesses or failings, we continuously strive pages 94 to 96, respectively.
assurance that the appropriate internal controls to improve our framework and focus on further GOING CONCERN STATEMENT The Groups business activities, objectives and strategy, principal risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives and performance are set out on pages 14 to 39.
After making enquiries, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that BGEO and the Group, as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and therefore the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors are required to assess the prospects of the Company to meet its liabilities by taking into account its current position and principal risks.
The Board conducted this review over a three-year period beginning 1 January 2017, being the first day after the end of the financial year to which this report relates.
In determining the appropriate period over which to make their assessment, the Directors considered the duration of its strategic plans, financial forecasts, the diverse nature of the Groups activities, the evolving nature of the regulatory environment in which the Groups businesses operate as well as recent trends relating to Lari volatility.
A period of three years beyond the balance sheet date was considered appropriate for the Company.
In order to consider the Groups viability, the Board considered a number of key factors, including: the Groups financial and operational position, including capital allocation and other key financial ratios: the Boards risk appetite: the Groups business model and strategy as set out on pages 14 to 31: the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, principally those related to adverse economic conditions, the depreciation of the Lari, deterioration of loan book creditworthiness IT and or information security including cyber-security control failures, underperformance of our Investment Businesses and how these risks and uncertainties are managed, as set out on pages 36 to 39: the effectiveness of our risk management framework and internal control processes: and stress testing, as described below.
The key factors above have been reviewed in the context of our current position and strategic plan, financial budgets and forecasts assessed annually and on a three-year basis.
The viability assessment involved a risk identification process which involved recognition of the principal risks to viability risks that could impair the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, excluding risks not sufficiently severe over the period of assessment.
We also identified other risks which, while not necessarily severe in themselves, could escalate when combined with others.
For each risk, we considered our risk appetite and tolerance as well as risk proximity and momentum.
For those risks considered sufficiently severe to affect our viability, we performed stress testing for the assessment period, which involved modelling the impact of a combination of severe and plausible adverse scenarios.
The stress test scenarios were then reviewed against the Groups current and projected liquidity position considering current committed funding, capital adequacy and solvency.
The stress testing also took into account the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified underlying risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Directors have also satisfied themselves that they have the evidence necessary to support the statement below in terms of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and internal control processes in place to mitigate risk.
Based on the analysis described above, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 35 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
