Principal risks and uncertainties The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and the review of financial risk has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Groups risk framework was last reviewed by the Board in 2015 when it was updated to ensure it continues to meet UK Corporate Governance requirements.
Under the leadership of the Group Head of Risk, Bodycotes risk management framework is used to identify, report and manage its business critical risks.
The Group Head of Risk is supported by the Risk and SHE Committee, attended by senior managers from each of the operating divisions, which met three times during 2016.
The Risk and SHE Committee assists the Group Head of Risk in identifying critical risks, embedding risk management and facilitating the implementation of risk management measures throughout the Group.
A variety of approaches is used to identify and report risks, which are aggregated first at a divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and these are used to direct assurance activity.
The Group Head of Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented to the Board in December.
The Board concluded that a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks had been undertaken.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out on page 7.
These risks have been reviewed throughout the year and they have not materially changed since 2015.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function, are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
The Board recognises that there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason business continuity plans have been prepared for all plants to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact the business.
In determining the principal risks, the Board has considered the result of the referendum on the future of the UKs membership in the European Union.
While this result increases the level of market uncertainty, it is not expected to have a material impact on Bodycote as customers are served locally and cross-border trading is minimal.
This risk is therefore included as an element of the existing market risk.
In September 2016, a fire occurred at the Huntington Park facility in California.
Bodycote personnel responded safely and quickly to ensure continuity of service for customers.
The Groups business continuity framework, utilising the local plant network, provided an interim backup capability and this significantly mitigated the impact of this event and prevented a major disruption.
The facility was operational again one month after the event.
Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks Markets Bodycote operates in 23 countries The high proportion of short-term Bodycotes presence in 23 and a substantial amount of sales are fixed costs in the business means countries across a wide variety closely linked to the economic cycle that a drop in sales will have a of end-markets acts as a natural and the general macro-economic significant impact on profitability.
hedge to neutralise localised environment.
The result of the Sales in the markets served by the economic volatility.
referendum on the future of the UKs AGI businesses 66% of the total There is some short-term flexibility membership in the European Union Group tend to develop in line with in the cost base e. g. by ensuring is not expected to have a material or ahead of the economic cycle, that a proportion of the workforce transactional impact as customers are whereas aerospace and defence is employed on temporary typically served locally and crosssales 25% tend to track behind the contracts.
Sales to the energy sectors 9% are closely linked to Changes in customer demand on energy prices, which in turn can be a local or a Group-wide level are affected by general economic activity.
Loss of key customers Bodycote benefits from many The loss of a key customer could There is no significant customer long-term relationships with key adversely affect the Groups financial dependency, with the Groups top customers and the damage to, or loss results and the viability of one or ten customers accounting for less of, any of these relationships would more of Bodycotes facilities.
than 16% of sales and the balance be detrimental to the Group.
made up by many thousands of customers.
There is a continued focus on customer service and quality processes to maintain excellent relationships with major customers.
Key account management is in place and customer satisfaction is monitored.
24 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks continued Competitor action The entry of competitors into one The erosion of market share resulting The close control of proprietary or more of the Groups Specialist in loss of revenue and profit.
Rapid increase in the scale of the Groups offerings to maintain the position as supplier of choice.
Corporate and community risks Safety and health The nature of Bodycotes activities Bodycote is committed to providing Group-wide health and safety presents safety and health risks.
a safe work environment for its policies set by the Group Chief employees but Bodycotes operations, Executive.
if not properly managed, could have OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 a significant impact on individual compliant SHE management employees.
Furthermore, poor systems being used by Group safety and health practices could Head of Safety, Health and lead to disruption of business, Environment with support of financial penalties and loss of divisional safety, health and reputation.
Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could have a high impact.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least every two years.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group Risk and SHE Committee.
Operational risks Service quality The Bodycote brand is reliant on the Deterioration in quality or service Bodycote has stringent quality repeatable delivery of parts to agreed levels can cause serious long-term systems in place managed by specification to an agreed time.
damage to Bodycotes reputation qualified staff.
with financial consequences such as Quality systems and processes the loss of a customer and the cost operated at plant level with of damages or litigation.
Work that oversight by divisional quality is released into use which is not in teams.
compliance with specification could arise as a result of system or human Where necessary, plants maintain failure.
industry relevant accreditations, such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and TS 16949.
All plants subjected to internal and external quality audits and inspections at least once a year.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Operational risks continued Major disruption at a facility Bodycotes business processes Any significant incident at a site As demonstrated with the fire are inherently risky and there is a could result in the service to at Huntington Park, disruption possibility that a major fire such Bodycotes customers from the was substantially mitigated by as that suffered in 2016 at the affected site being disrupted.
Bodycotes global network of 189 Huntington Park facility USA or facilities.
These facilities create utility outage could lead to closure a framework to provide back-up of a facilitys operation.
In addition, capability for affected facilities.
a number of sites are exposed to Business continuity plans are natural hazards, such as earthquakes, in place for all plants.
These are flooding and storms.
Independent insurer inspections to assess hazard and business interruption risks.
Insurance cover, including business interruption cover.
Scheduled equipment maintenance and inspections.
Information technology projects The efficient operation of the Group Failure to manage the Project approval and progress relies on the proper development and implementation of the ERP subject to regular Executive operation of its IT systems.
Bodycote programme successfully could result Committee and Board review.
is currently undergoing a Groupin cost overruns and, potentially, Project teams made up of wide implementation of a new ERP disruption to the business.
skilled subject matter experts system.
supplemented with third party advisers.
Best practice project management processes in place with assurance provided by third parties.
Defined disaster recovery planning and data backup procedures.
Regulatory risks Regulatory and legislative compliance The global nature of Bodycotes Failure to comply with legislation Business processes are supported operations means that the Group could lead to substantial financial by HR policies and the Group Code has to comply with a wide range penalties, disruption to business, of Conduct alongside training and of local and international legislative diversion of management time, awareness programmes.
requirements, including anti-bribery personal and corporate liability and The Open Door Line and anti-competition legislation, loss of reputation.
whistleblower facility which is taxation legislation, employment law managed by a third party.
and import and export controls.
Engagement of local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
26 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Viability statement In preparing this statement of viability, the directors have considered the prospects of the Group over the three-year period immediately following the 2016 financial year.
This longer-term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern on page 23.
A three-year period was determined as the most appropriate as it is the period covered by the Groups annual strategic planning process, which sets the long-term direction of the Group and is reviewed at least annually by the directors.
The Board concluded that a period of longer than three years would not be meaningful for the purpose of concluding on longer-term viability, given the limited forward visibility of the Group.
The strategic plan considers metrics which enable assessment of the Groups key performance indicators including return on capital employed, headline earnings per share and headline operating cash flow in addition to net debt, liquidity and financing requirements.
In conducting the review of the Groups prospects the directors assessed the three-year plan alongside the Groups current position, the Groups strategy and the principal risks facing the Group all of which are detailed in the Strategic report on pages 6 to 26.
This assessment considered the impact of the principal risks on the business model and on future performance, liquidity and solvency and was mindful of the limited forward visibility that the Group has as it carries a minimal order backlog.
The directors viability assessment included a review of the sensitivity analysis performed on the three-year plan, whereby the principal risks, and particularly those related to markets and customers see page 24, were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The developed scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe.
In making this viability statement the directors considered the mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group in the event that the principal risks of the Company become realised.
The directors also took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 December 2016, with net cash of 1.1m, available committed facility headroom of 225.0m and a history of strong cash generation.
The directors have assessed the viability of the Group and, based on the procedures outlined above in addition to activities undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business, confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2019.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
