Risk management The Board is required to assess the prospects of the The Groups financial plan has been reviewed in the context Company, taking account of its current position and of its operational performance during 2016 and stress tested principal risks, and to explain how this has been done, over against scenarios to assess the future viability of the Group.
what period and why that period is considered appropriate.
The potentially highest impact risks, from a Group viability point of view, are seen as those which arise from a downturn The assessment context in the economic environment within the UK, leading to The Board has considered the longer term viability of the Group, decreased affordability, reduced demand for housing and falling reviewing this over a 5 year period based on the strategy as house prices.
In modelling an economic downturn assumptions have been applied to the plan numbers that are based on outlined on pages 18 to 24, the current performance of the the Groups experience and the wider sectors experience of Group and its principal risks.
The average life cycle of our historical declines in the housing cycle.
housing developments falls within a 5 year time period and this aligns with the timeframe focused on for the annual strategic Specifically our economic downturn scenario has applied review exercise conducted within the business and reviewed sensitivities to the assumptions on sales rates, pricing and costs by the Board.
It is also in line with the financing arrangement but has assumed that current interest rate policies remain in extended by the Group in 2016. place and does not specifically evaluate the impact of a material change to the current political climate which is supportive of The Groups current strategy was communicated in detail the housebuilding sector.
The sensitivities along with the impact during 2014 and remains in place albeit the short term focus is of the expected mitigating actions that would be taken by the on improving operational performance not growth.
The Board Group, were overlaid on the Groups 5 year Strategic Plan.
has considered the Groups risk appetite and believe this to be The key mitigating actions we expect the business to take in a towards the lower end of the risk scale for the housebuilding downturn include restricting investment in land, reducing the sector.
The Board have highlighted the following elements of level of production and work in progress held and optimising the strategy as key considerations in reaching this view, all of our overhead base to ensure it aligns with the scale of which have an impact on the Groups key investment decisions: operations through the cycle.
Focused on a Southern biased geography The results of this stress testing indicated that the Group would be able to able to withstand the impact of these assumptions, Targeted at edge of town and large village greenfield locations taking into account the impact of mitigating actions, on the Delivering a high proportion of standard Portfolio Groups financial performance.
designed housing Viability statement Traditional two storey family housing is the core product Based on the results of this analysis, the Board have a reasonable offering with only limited low rise apartments in the mix expectation that the Company will be able to continue in The Groups strategy is to be more or less self-financing in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five terms of growth ambitions with low levels of debt and modest year period reviewed.
land creditors Going concern The assessment process and assumptions The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the During 2016, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the financial statements on the going concern basis, as explained in principal risks facing the Group, including those that would the basis of preparation paragraph in note 1.3 to the accounts.
threaten the execution of its strategy, future performance In forming this view, the Group has analysed its forecast and liquidity.
Management and mitigation of those principal risks covenant compliance over the period linked to its banking have been taken into consideration when considering the future arrangement, arriving at an assessment of the headroom evident viability of the Group.
The Groups principal risk review, as set between the forecast covenant headroom and the outcomes out on pages 26 to 29, considers the impact of these principal necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
risks and the mitigating controls that are in place.
As part of its The Group entered into its current banking arrangement on annual strategic review the Board considered the Groups 5 year 3 December 2015 and it was extended for one year in December financial plan, the core assumptions underpinning this plan and 2016.
This arrangement provides a committed revolving credit how the current economic environment may impact this plan.
facility with a limit of 250 million maturing in December 2021.
The early years of the financial plan are prepared in detail with The Group regards its current banking arrangement as the basis being the development of our existing land bank.
adequate for its needs in terms of flexibility and liquidity.
There is inherently more uncertainty in the later years of the As at 31 December 2016, the Group had nil drawings under plan as these incorporate a higher level of assumed housing the facility and had net cash of 39 million.
completions from land owned currently without planning or More details on the Groups approach to financial risk land not currently owned by the Group.
management are laid out in note 4.6.
30 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our business and strategy | Strategic report Our business and strategy Sherford Plymouth Bovis Homes Group PLC | 31
