Strategic report performance Risk factors The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have An event such as a significant operational incident, legal proceedings or a material adverse effect on the implementation of our strategy, our a geopolitical event in an area where we have significant activities, could business, financial performance, results of operations, cash flows, reduce our credit ratings.
This could potentially increase financing costs liquidity, prospects, shareholder value and returns and reputation.
and limit access to financing or engagement in our trading activities on acceptable terms, which could put pressure on the groups liquidity.
Credit rating downgrades could trigger a requirement for the company to Strategic and commercial risks review its funding arrangements with the BP pension trustees and may Prices and markets our financial performance is subject to fluctuating cause other impacts on financial performance.
In the event of extended prices of oil, gas, refined products, technological change, exchange rate constraints on our ability to obtain financing, we could be required to fluctuations, and the general macroeconomic outlook.
reduce capital expenditure or increase asset disposals in order to provide Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and additional liquidity.
See Liquidity and capital resources on page 242 and demand and margins can be volatile.
Political developments, increased Financial statements Note 28. supply from new oil and gas sources, technological change, global Joint arrangements and contractors we may have limited control economic conditions and the influence of OPEC can impact supply and over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners, demand and prices for our products.
Decreases in oil, gas or product contractors and sub-contractors.
prices could have an adverse effect on revenue, margins, profitability We conduct many of our activities through joint arrangements, and cash flows.
If significant or for a prolonged period, we may have to associates or with contractors and sub-contractors where we may write down assets and re-assess the viability of certain projects, which may impact future cash flows, profit, capital expenditure and ability to have limited influence and control over the performance of such operations.
Our partners and contractors are responsible for the maintain our long-term investment programme.
Conversely, an increase in oil, gas and product prices may not improve margin performance as adequacy of the resources and capabilities they bring to a project.
If these are found to be lacking, there may be financial, operational or there could be increased fiscal take, cost inflation and more onerous terms for access to resources.
The profitability of our refining and safety risks for BP.
Should an incident occur in an operation that BP participates in, our partners and contractors may be unable or unwilling petrochemicals activities can be volatile, with periodic over-supply or supply tightness in regional markets and fluctuations in demand.
to fully compensate us against costs we may incur on their behalf or on behalf of the arrangement.
Where we do not have operational control Exchange rate fluctuations can create currency exposures and impact of a venture, we may still be pursued by regulators or claimants in the underlying costs and revenues.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US event of an incident.
dollars, while products vary in currency.
Many of our major project Digital infrastructure and cybersecurity breach of our digital development costs are denominated in local currencies, which may be security or failure of our digital infrastructure could damage our subject to fluctuations against the US dollar.
Access, renewal and reserves progression our inability to access, A breach or failure of our digital infrastructure due to intentional actions renew and progress upstream resources in a timely manner could such as attacks on our cybersecurity, negligence or other reasons, could adversely affect our long-term replacement of reserves.
seriously disrupt our operations and could result in the loss or misuse of Delivering our group strategy depends on our ability to continually data or sensitive information, injury to people, disruption to our business, replenish a strong exploration pipeline of future opportunities to harm to the environment or our assets, legal or regulatory breaches access and produce oil and natural gas.
Competition for access to and potentially legal liability.
These could result in significant costs or investment opportunities, heightened political and economic risks in reputational consequences.
certain countries where significant hydrocarbon basins are located and Climate change and carbon pricing public policies could increase increasing technical challenges and capital commitments may adversely costs and reduce future revenue and strategic growth opportunities.
This, and our ability to progress upstream Changes in laws, regulations, policies and obligations relating to climate resources and sustain long-term reserves replacement, could impact change, including carbon pricing, could impact our assets, costs, our future production and financial performance.
revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities and demand for Major project delivery failure to invest in the best opportunities or our products.
deliver major projects successfully could adversely affect our financial Competition inability to remain efficient, innovate and retain an performance.
appropriately skilled workforce could negatively impact delivery of our We face challenges in developing major projects, particularly in strategy in a highly competitive market.
geographically and technically challenging areas.
Operational challenges Our strategic progress and performance could be impeded if we are and poor investment choice, efficiency or delivery at any major project unable to control our development and operating costs and margins, that underpins production or production growth could adversely affect or to sustain, develop and operate a high-quality portfolio of assets our financial performance.
We could be adversely affected if competitors offer superior Geopolitical we are exposed to a range of political developments and terms for access rights or licences, or if our innovation in areas such as consequent changes to the operating and regulatory environment.
exploration, production, refining or manufacturing lags the industry.
Our We operate and may seek new opportunities in countries and regions performance could also be negatively impacted if we fail to protect our where political, economic and social transition may take place.
Political instability, changes to the regulatory environment or taxation, Our industry faces increasing challenge to recruit and retain skilled and international sanctions, expropriation or nationalization of property, experienced people in the fields of science, technology, engineering and civil strife, strikes, insurrections, acts of terrorism and acts of war may mathematics.
Successful recruitment, development and retention of disrupt or curtail our operations or development activities.
These may specialist staff is essential to our plans.
in turn cause production to decline, limit our ability to pursue new opportunities, affect the recoverability of our assets or cause us to incur Crisis management and business continuity potential disruption additional costs, particularly due to the long-term nature of many of our to our business and operations could occur if we do not address an projects and significant capital expenditure required.
Our business and operating activities could be disrupted if we do not Events in or relating to Russia, including further trade restrictions and other respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner sanctions, could adversely impact our income and investment in Russia.
to any major crisis or if we are not able to restore or replace critical Our ability to pursue business objectives and to recognize production and operational capacity.
reserves relating to Russia could also be adversely impacted.
Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, exposure failure to work within our financial framework could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Failure to accurately forecast, manage or maintain sufficient liquidity and credit could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Trade and other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be recovered and a substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request could disrupt our financial framework or overwhelm our ability to meet our obligations.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 49 Insurance our insurance strategy could expose the group to material financial or otherwise, each of which could impact our operations and uninsured losses.
have a material adverse effect on the groups reputation and financial BP generally purchases insurance only in situations where this is legally performance.
Failure to satisfy the requirements or comply with the and contractually required.
Some risks are insured with third parties and terms of the administrative agreement with the US Environmental reinsured by group insurance companies.
Uninsured losses could have a Protection Agency EPA, under which BP agreed to a set of safety material adverse effect on our financial position, particularly if they arise and operations, ethics and compliance and corporate governance at a time when we are facing material costs as a result of a significant requirements, could result in suspension or debarment of certain BP operational event which could put pressure on our liquidity and cash entities.
Regulation changes in the regulatory and legislative environment could increase the cost of compliance, affect our provisions and limit Safety and operational risks our access to new exploration opportunities.
Governments that award exploration and production interests may Process safety, personal safety, and environmental risks we are impose specific drilling obligations, environmental, health and safety exposed to a wide range of health, safety, security and environmental controls, controls over the development and decommissioning of risks that could result in regulatory action, legal liability, increased costs, a field and possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or damage to our reputation and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Royalties and taxes tend to be high Technical integrity failure, natural disasters, extreme weather, human compared with those imposed on similar commercial activities, and error and other adverse events or conditions could lead to loss of in certain jurisdictions there is a degree of uncertainty relating to tax containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous materials, as well law interpretation and changes.
Governments may change their fiscal as fires, explosions or other personal and process safety incidents, and regulatory frameworks in response to public pressure on finances, including when drilling wells, operating facilities and those associated resulting in increased amounts payable to them or their agencies.
with transportation by road, sea or pipeline.
Such factors could increase the cost of compliance, reduce our There can be no certainty that our operating management system or profitability in certain jurisdictions, limit our opportunities for new other policies and procedures will adequately identify all process safety, access, require us to divest or write down certain assets or curtail or personal safety and environmental risks or that all our operating activities cease certain operations, or affect the adequacy of our provisions for will be conducted in conformance with these systems.
See Safety on pensions, tax, decommissioning, environmental and legal liabilities.
Potential changes to pension or financial market regulation could Such events, including a marine incident, or inability to provide safe also impact funding requirements of the group.
Following the Gulf of environments for our workforce and the public while at our facilities, Mexico oil spill, there have been cases of additional oversight and more premises or during transportation, could lead to injuries, loss of life or stringent regulation of BP and other companies oil and gas activities in environmental damage.
We could as a result face regulatory action and the US and elsewhere, particularly relating to environmental, health and legal liability, including penalties and remediation obligations, increased safety controls and oversight of drilling operations, which could result costs and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Our activities in increased compliance costs.
In addition, we may be subjected to a are sometimes conducted in hazardous, remote or environmentally higher number of citations and level of fines imposed in relation to any sensitive locations, where the consequences of such events could be alleged breaches of safety or environmental regulations, which could greater than in other locations.
Drilling and production challenging operational environments and Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or other uncertainties can impact drilling and production activities.
breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could Our activities require high levels of investment and are sometimes be damaging to our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory conducted in extremely challenging environments which heighten the action and penalties.
risks of technical integrity failure and the impact of natural disasters Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws and extreme weather.
The physical characteristics of an oil or natural and regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption and anti-fraud gas field, and cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is often laws, trade restrictions or other sanctions, or non-compliance with the uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling recommendations of the ethics monitor appointed under the terms of operations because of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling the DoJ and EPA settlements, could damage our reputation, result in conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment litigation, regulatory action and penalties.
failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and compliance with Treasury and trading activities ineffective oversight of treasury governmental requirements.
and trading activities could lead to business disruption, financial loss, Security hostile acts against our staff and activities could cause harm regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
to people and disrupt our operations.
We are subject to operational risk around our treasury and trading Acts of terrorism, piracy, sabotage and similar activities directed activities in financial and commodity markets, some of which are against our operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or digital regulated.
Failure to process, manage and monitor a large number infrastructure could cause harm to people and severely disrupt business of complex transactions across many markets and currencies while and operations.
Our activities could also be severely affected by conflict, complying with all regulatory requirements could hinder profitable civil strife or political unrest.
There is a risk that a single trader or a group of traders could act outside of our delegations and controls, leading to Product quality supplying customers with off-specification products regulatory intervention and resulting in financial loss and potentially could damage our reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, damaging our reputation.
See Financial statements Note 28. and potentially impact our financial performance.
Failure to meet product quality standards could cause harm to people Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory and the environment, damage our reputation, result in regulatory action action, legal liability and reputational damage.
and legal liability, and impact financial performance.
External reporting of financial and non-financial data, including reserves estimates, relies on the integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in compliance with applicable standards could result Compliance and control risks in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
US government settlements failure to comply with the terms of our settlements with legal and regulatory bodies in the US announced in November 2012 in respect of certain charges related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill may expose us to further penalties or liabilities or could result in suspension or debarment of certain BP entities.
Settlements with the US Department of Justice DoJ and the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC impose significant compliance and remedial obligations on BP and its directors, officers and employees, including the appointment of an ethics monitor, a process safety monitor and an independent third-party auditor.
Failure to comply with the terms of these settlements could result in further enforcement The Strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by action by the DoJ and the SEC and expose us to severe penalties, David J Jackson, company secretary on 6 April 2017.
50 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 See Glossary.
