Strategic report performance How we manage risk BP manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and oversee the management of significant risks, and dedicated board uncertainties that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy of committees review and monitor certain risks throughout the year.
meeting the worlds energy needs responsibly while creating BPs group risk team analyses the groups risk profile and maintains long-term shareholder value: these risks are described in the Risk the group risk management system.
Our group audit team provides factors on page 49. independent assurance to the group chief executive and board as to Our management systems, organizational structures, processes, whether the groups system of internal control is adequately designed standards, code of conduct and behaviours together form a system and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are of internal control that governs how we conduct the business of significant to BP.
BP and manage associated risks.
Risk governance and oversight BPs risk management system Key risk governance and oversight committees include the following: BPs risk management system and policy is designed to be a consistent and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the groups Executive committees operations to the board.
The system seeks to avoid incidents and maximize business outcomes by allowing us to: Executive team meeting for strategic and commercial risks.
Group operations risk committee for health, safety, security, Understand the risk environment, and assess the specific risks and potential exposure for BP.
environment and operations integrity risks.
Group financial risk committee for finance, treasury, trading Determine how best to deal with these risks to manage overall and cyber risks.
Group disclosure committee for financial reporting risks.
Manage the identified risks in appropriate ways.
Group people committee for employee risks.
Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the management G roup ethics and compliance committee for legal and regulatory of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
Report up the management chain and to the board on a periodic basis Resource commitment meeting for investment decision risks.
on how significant risks are being managed, monitored, assured and the improvements that are being made.
Board and its committees Our risk management activities BP board.
Day-to-day risk Business and Oversight and management strategic risk governance Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee.
Identify, Plan, manage Set policy and Risk management processes manage and performance monitor principal report risks and assure risks As part of BPs annual planning process, we review the groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These may be updated throughout the year in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
We aim for a consistent basis of measuring risk to allow comparison on a like-for-like basis, taking into account potential likelihood and impact, Facilities, Business Executive Board assets and segments and and corporate and to inform how we prioritize specific risk management activities and operations functions functions invest resources to manage them.
Our risk prole The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many Day-to-day risk management management and staff at our facilities, of our risks being enduring in nature.
Nonetheless, risks can develop assets and functions seek to identify and manage risk, promoting and evolve over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary in safe, compliant and reliable operations.
BP requirements, which take response to internal and external events.
into account applicable laws and regulations, underpin the practical We identify those risks as having a high priority for particular oversight plans developed to help reduce risk and deliver strong, sustainable by the board and its various committees in the coming year.
For example, our operating management system OMS identified for 2017 are listed in this section.
These may be updated integrates BP requirements on health, safety, security, environment, throughout the year in response to changes in internal and external social responsibility, operational reliability and related issues.
The oversight and management of other risks is Business and strategic risk management our businesses and undertaken in the normal course of business throughout the business functions integrate risk management into key business processes and in executive and board committees.
such as strategy, planning, performance management, resource and There can be no certainty that our risk management activities will capital allocation, and project appraisal.
We do this by using a standard mitigate or prevent these, or other risks, from occurring.
framework for collating risk data, assessing risk management activities, Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties we face are set out making further improvements and planning new activities.
Oversight and governance functional leadership, the executive team, the board and relevant committees provide oversight to identify, More information understand and endorse management of significant risks to BP.
They Risk management and internal control page 111. also put in place systems of risk management, compliance and control Board and committee reports page 64. designed to mitigate these risks.
Executive committees set policy and See Glossary.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 47 continue to monitor threats globally and, in particular, the situation in the Risks for particular oversight by the board and its Middle East, North Africa and Europe.
committees in 2017 The risks for particular oversight by the board and its committees in Compliance and control risks 2017 have been reviewed and updated.
These risks remain the same Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance as for 2016.
Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and Strategic and commercial risks shareholder value, and potentially affect our licence to operate.
Financial resilience Our code of conduct and our values and behaviours, applicable to all External market conditions can impact our financial performance.
Supply employees, are central to managing this risk.
Additionally, we have and demand and the prices achieved for our products can be affected by various group requirements and training covering areas such as antia wide range of factors including political developments, technological bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, competition anti-trust change, global economic conditions and the influence of OPEC.
law and international trade regulations.
We seek to keep abreast of We actively manage this risk through BPs diversified portfolio, our new regulations and legislation and plan our response to them.
We financial framework, liquidity stress testing, regular reviews of market offer an independent confidential helpline, OpenTalk, for employees, conditions and our planning and investment processes.
contractors and other third parties.
Under the terms of the 2012 plea agreement with the US government and the 2014 settlement with the Geopolitical US Environmental Protection Agency, an ethics monitor is reviewing The diverse locations of our operations around the world expose us to and providing recommendations concerning BPs ethics and compliance a wide range of political developments and consequent changes to the programme.
Geopolitical risk is inherent to many regions in which we operate, and heightened political or social Trading non-compliance tensions or changes in key relationships could adversely affect the group.
In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our trading activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our We seek to actively manage this risk through development and systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or maintenance of relationships with governments and stakeholders and employees.
becoming trusted partners in each country and region.
In addition, we closely monitor events and implement risk mitigation plans where We have specific operating standards and control processes to manage appropriate.
these risks, including guidelines specific to trading, and seek to monitor Cybersecurity compliance through our dedicated compliance teams.
We also seek to The threats to the security of our digital infrastructure continue to evolve maintain a positive and collaborative relationship with regulators and the rapidly and, like many other global organizations, we rely on digital industry at large.
A cybersecurity breach could have a significant impact on business operations.
We seek to manage this risk through a range of measures, which include cybersecurity standards, ongoing monitoring of threats and testing of cyber response procedures and equipment.
We collaborate closely with governments, law enforcement agencies and industry peers to understand and respond to new and emerging cyber threats.
Campaigns and presentations on topics such as email phishing and protecting our information and equipment have helped to raise employee awareness of these issues.
Safety and operational risks Encouraging employees to think before they click Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks The nature of the groups operating activities exposes us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks such as We rank cybersecurity as one of our highest priority risks.
We deal incidents associated with releases of hydrocarbons when drilling wells, with attempted cyber attacks on our business every day.
Employees operating facilities and transporting hydrocarbons.
are our first line of defence against these attacks and we promote secure behaviours to help mitigate this growing risk.
We focus on Our OMS helps us manage these risks and drive performance practical rules that we promote through films, e-learning and sessions improvements.
It sets out the rules and principles which govern key delivered by senior managers and our digital security team.
risk management activities such as inspection, maintenance, testing, business continuity and crisis response planning and competency One of our rules addresses phishing, which is the attempt to trick development.
In addition, we conduct our drilling activity through a people into revealing sensitive information and can involve installing global wells organization in order to promote a consistent approach for malicious software to steal information without their knowledge.
designing, constructing and managing wells.
So we remind staff to think before you click and be vigilant for Security phishing emails, calls and other suspicious requests for information Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm our people and to report any such attempts to our digital security operations and disrupt our operations.
We monitor for emerging threats and centre.
vulnerabilities to manage our physical and information security.
We conduct ethical phishing tests to educate our employees in this Our central security team provides guidance and support to our area.
The number of employees who click on the links in the test businesses through a network of regional security advisers who advise emails has fallen by more than 70% since 2012.
Over the same time, and conduct assurance with respect to the management of security there has been a significant increase in the number of employees risks affecting our people and operations.
We also maintain disaster reporting the phishing tests.
The programme is driving real change in recovery, crisis and business continuity management plans.
We awareness, but we remain vigilant as the threat continues to evolve.
48 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
