STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Principal Risks and Uncertainties Managing our risks Risk management Effective risk management is key to It is the responsibility of all our employees to manage the success of our business.
Ultimately, accountability for risk monitor andmanage principal risks managementresides withthe Board which is responsible forensuring that there is an adequate and appropriate Risk to our business within the context Management Framework and culture in place.
The Board maintains oversight while delegating the management of of our Risk Management Framework.
The overall level of risk we face continues to increase as a result An effective Risk Management Frameworkis a fundamental ofexternal market conditions: increasing regulatory standards, with requirement for good governance and requires every employee higher financial penalties for failure to comply with these standards: within the organisation to adhere to and advocate the risk an increasingly uncertain political environment and associated culturethat we set.
We follow industry good practice for risk market volatility: andincreasing cyber criminality targeting managementthrough the three lines of defence model.
Our approach is to develop and maintain a strong line is the business that owns and manages the risk, the second control framework to identify, monitor and manage the principal risks line isthe controlfunctions and the third line is independent we face, adequately quantify them and ensure we retain sufficient assurance provided by internal audit.
capital in the business to support our strategy for further growth.
The Board regularly assesses the effectiveness of the Groups We use a number of high-level risk groups that allow us to identify internal controls.
It does so by reviewing and challenging reports potential risks.
These are: from the Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee, and by appraising issues escalated from the business through the Business and strategic Regulatory compliance Groups Executive Committee.
In addition, our Risk and Financial Criminality Compliance department and Internal Audit function carry Operational Investment outreviews and report independently to the Audit Committee Conduct andthe Board Risk Committee.
Each of these high-level risk groups contains a series of specific Risk management objectives risks.
As well as ensuring we can identify principal risks and report The primary objectives of risk management at Brewin Dolphin are on them clearly and accurately, this approach allows us to assess to ensure there is: robustly the financial resources we need and so helps to protect our clients interests.
A strong risk culture that enables employees to identify, monitor, manage and report against the key risks the business faces or may confrontas it implements the Groupsstrategy.
An appropriate balance between risk and the cost of control.
A defined risk appetite within which risks are managed.
A swift and effective response to incidents in order to minimise impact.
co. uk 33 Risk Culture Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued The following diagram depicts our overall Risk Management Framework: Business Strategy Risk Appetite Policy Framework Risk Identification Risk Management & Assessment & Mitigation Risk Monitoring Risk Assurance & Reporting Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP Risk culture 2016 developments The Board drivesour risk culture, most particularly in terms of the The external risk environment has been marked by considerable conduct of our people.
We aim to foster a risk-aware culture uncertainty over the past year, particularly since the outcome of throughout the business by promoting and encouraging: the EU referendum vote in June.
Throughout 2016, we continued to consider and assess the referendums impact.
Although we are A distinct and consistent tone from the top, with clear values.
largely a UK domiciled business, it may have an impact on some Clear accountabilities for those managing risk.
The longer-term impacts are stilluncertain and we will keep developments under reviewto ensure we are The three lines of defence model.
Prompt sharing and reporting of risk information.
We continued to strengthen and embed our risk framework within the first line of defence during 2016.
Work on this will continue Appropriate levels of conduct and considered riskinto 2017.
The focus in 2016 was on financial risk, conduct risk, taking behaviour.
information security and operational risk.
We have improved the Recognition of the importance of knowledge, skill and quality of our internal risk reportingby incorporating detailed key experience in risk management.
risk indicators to ourrisk appetite statementsfor each of our Members of staff at all levels encouraged to make suggestions principal risks.
Wehave also introduced a monthly dashboard to for improving processes and controls.
more clearly illustratethe actual positionagainstrisk appetite.
An acceptance of the importance of the continuous management of risk, including clear accountability for and ownership of specific risks.
34 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Governance STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties The table below details theprincipal risks and uncertainties we have identified.
We have put in place a process to regularly report key risk indicators andidentify movements within these principal risks.
We also consider emerging risks as part of this process.
Risk description Principal risks Key mitigants BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC This is the risk that we do not set Failure to develop a strategy We have: the right strategic and business which can deliver results in A strategic plan approved by the Board.
objectives or that we fail to deliver changing external market A robust governance structure that includes challenge against the agreed objectives.
conditions or failure to execute from our independent Non-Executive Directors.
againstthe agreed Group This could include an inability A risk appetite that is aligned with our key strategic strategy within the agreed to introduce or enter into new aims and principal risks, and monitored on a regular risk appetite.
business lines effectively, to basis by our formal governance committees.
expand organically or through A control environment that is regularly reviewed by our merger acquisition, or to enhance independent Internal Audit function.
the effectiveness of our operational infrastructure.
Direction of change: These risks have increased over the past year as we may have to take on additional risk in order to grow the business, particularly if we pursue opportunities for inorganic growth.
We remain confident that we have the proper framework in place to manage this effectively.
Brexit concerns have also caused uncertainty in the market which may impact us in the future.
FINANCIAL These are the risks facing our Default by our banking and We have in place: business in terms of management trading counterparties credit A robust financial risk framework which allows us to set and control of finances and the risk which could put at risk either limits for our counterparties.
effects of external factors such as our own or our clients cash Diversity across our trading and banking availability of credit, foreign deposits or assets.
exchange rates, interest-rate In-depth due diligence on our banking counterparties, movements and other market focusing particularly on those holding client money.
exposures that could affect our We additionally monitor their creditworthiness within cash flow, capital and liquidity.
assessed limits on a daily basis.
Similar due diligence on our trading counterparties.
We review our trading activities regularly to monitor exposure to our trading counterparties.
A Financial Risk Committee, tasked with overseeing this risk, and regular reporting of our position against appetite.
Direction of change: These risks are slightlyincreased due to the uncertainty caused by Brexit.
This has the potential to make our counterparties slightly more volatile in their profitability, and therefore could negatively impact their credit ratings.
co. uk 35 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk description Principal risks Key mitigants OPERATIONAL This is the risk of loss resulting This is a diverse risk as it We have: frominadequate or failed internal comprises many different Technology strategy and change processes, people and systems, operational areas.
We have A Strategic Projects Committee to oversee business orfrom external events.
identified the following as thetwo change, which allows projects to be prioritised main risks: effectively.
Technology strategy and Rigorous overview of project delivery.
change secure and robust A technology roadmap taking us into 2018. technology systems are not maintained, particularly when Continual investment in our technology.
seeking to implement change People resulting from our growth Competitive remuneration and retention plans.
strategy or new regulatory Regular succession planning and ongoing reviews of requirements.
ourdevelopment plans through which we seek to build People talented individuals strength across our employee base.
are not attracted or retained, Appropriate training programmes.
impacting service to clients and potentially the level of funds Employee engagement surveys to review our outflows.
progressand acting positively in areas where we areableto improve.
CONDUCT This is the risk that our clients do Employees actions may result in We have: not receive fair outcomes at all poor outcomes for clients.
Ensured that we set the right tone from the top and stages of our service delivery as a have culture awareness initiatives within the Group.
result of the behaviour of A conduct risk framework which ensures that this risk our employees.
receives the focus that it requires.
A risk based client on-boarding process which ensures that we understand our clients needs and attitudes to risk.
Regular reporting of key metrics to provide visibility of outcomes.
A performance management process to identify and address any instances where the best outcomes for clients are not achieved.
36 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk description Principal risks Key mitigants REGULATORY COMPLIANCE This is the risk of regulatory That we are notcompliant with all We have: changenegatively impacting the existing regulationor are unable An established Compliance function that oversees Group or regulatory sanctionas tounderstand and implement the fulfilment of our regulatory requirements and aresult of failure to comply.
widevariety of new regulation and interactions with our key regulators.
legislation that is continually A Compliance function which works closely with our cominginto force.
Strategic Project Committee to ensure that change processes include all necessary regulatory requirements.
Legal and Compliance functions which review new regulation and legislation as it is drafted to ensure we are able to comply when it is implemented.
We are also active in various industry and trade associations to help influence regulation and legislation, with the aim of ensuring that it is reasonable and commensurate.
CRIMINALITY This is the risk of criminal activities Cyber risk has been identified in We have: including fraud, money particularaswe increase our A risk framework which includes information security, laundering and cyber crime being online presence.
perpetrated through whatever Cyber Essentials certification.
means, whether externally or Strong technology and process controls which reduce internally, by paper, phone or our exposure to criminal activity.
Regular testing of our business continuity, disaster recovery and crisis management plans.
INVESTMENT This is the risk that we fail to That clients suffer poor outcomes We have: manage our clients assets in line as a result of assets not being An Investment Governance Committee which provides with the agreed mandate.
managed within their agreed product and service governance, including alignment mandate.
withstrategy, appetite for risk and client interests andoutcomes.
A dedicated Research department which sets the Groups asset allocation framework.
A restricted assets policy to identify those assets not considered to be suitable for clients portfolios.
A risk portfolio tool to monitor whether portfolios are constructed in accordance with a clients risk mandate.
Access to ARC metrics to benchmark the performance of our Model Portfolio Service against our peers.
Direction of change: Our risk exposure to operational, conduct, criminality and investment risk has decreased as we have strengthened our monitoring and oversight activities.
We are facing increased regulatorycompliance risk as the number ofregulatory changes is increasing and often haveconcurrent timelines.
