Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors Overview Assessment of Group risk Key The principal risk factors that may affect the During the year, the Directors have carried Time frame Group are set out on the following pages.
out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including Short term Each risk is considered in the context of the those that would threaten its business model, Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic Medium term future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Following a description Long term of each risk, its potential impact and The principal risks facing the Group have mitigation for the Group is summarised.
remained broadly unchanged over the past Strategic impact Clear accountability is attached to each risk year, particularly with regard to the principal Growth through the risk owner.
risks included in Marketplace, Excise and Tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation Productivity The Group has identified and is actively risk factors.
The Board has considered the monitoring and taking action to mitigate the Winning Organisation risks associated with the inability to recruit risks.
This section focuses on those risks that required talent and the loss of existing talent.
Sustainability the Directors believe to be the most important The impact and likelihood of the risk has after assessment of the likelihood and decreased and it is no longer a principal risk.
potential impact on the business.
Not all of Considered in viability statement these risks are within the control of the Group The viability statement below provides a Yes and other factors besides those listed may broader assessment of long-term solvency and No affect the Groups performance.
Some risks liquidity, the statement being forward-looking.
may be unknown at present.
Other risks, The Directors have considered a number of currently regarded as less material, could factors that may affect the resilience of the become material in the future.
Group, including some of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability.
This is The risk factors listed in this section and indicated in the impact on viability statement the activities being undertaken to mitigate key under each risk.
them should be considered in the context of the Groups internal control framework.
This is described in the section on risk management and internal control in the corporate governance statement on page 44.
This section should also be read in the context of the cautionary statement set out below.
Cautionary statement The Strategic Report and certain other sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables that could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the Groups continued strong cash generation from operating activities and the impact of the proposal to acquire the shares in Reynolds American not already owned by the Group, as this will increase the Groups net debt.
This assessment included a robust review of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability as indicated on pages 2730 which are considered, with the mitigating actions, at least once a year.
The Directors also took account of the Groups operational and financial processes, which cover both short term 1-2 year financial forecasts, 2-3 year capacity plans and longer term strategic planning.
The assessment included reverse stress testing core drivers that underpin the specific risks to ensure the business is able to continue in operation, whilst not breaching the required gross interest cover of 4.5 times see page 23.
Each impact would, individually, have to be between 5x and 17x worse than a prudent annual forecast.
If all risks arose simultaneously the Group would continue to be able to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
The Directors noted that the Group would be able to adjust certain capital requirements, including but not limited to the investment in the Groups manufacturing infrastructure in the short term and the 3 billion credit facility 2016: undrawn, to mitigate the impact of the effect ofthe above principal risks, each of which have specific mitigation activities as disclosed on pages 2730.
The Group operates in a unique environment, being subject to inherent uncertainties with regards to regulatory change and litigation, the outcome of which may have a bearing on the Groups viability.
The Group maintains, as referred to in note 28 Contingent Liabilities and Financial Commitments, that, whilst it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case, the defences of the Groups companies to all the various claims are meritorious on both law and the facts.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal will be made, the duration of which can be reasonably expected to last for a number of years.
The Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period.
However, given the inherent uncertainty involved regarding litigation and regulation, the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer term viability, based on the stress testing and scenario planning discussed above, is three years.
26 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risks Competition from illicittrade Increased competition from illicit trade either local duty evaded, smuggled illicit white cigarettes or counterfeits.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes Impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand value, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating at global, country levels and internal cross-functional coordination: best practice shared.
Reduced ability to take price increases.
Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a range of AIT issues.
Global AIT strategy supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
AIT Engagement Team including a dedicated analytical laboratory works with enforcement agencies in pursuit ofpriority targets.
Tobacco regulation inhibits growth strategy The enactment of unreasonable regulation that prohibits the Groups ability to communicate with consumers, differentiate our products and launch future products.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Medium term Growth and Sustainability Yes Impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand value through commoditisation, the inability to Engagement and litigation strategy coordinated and aligned launch innovations, differentiate products, maintain or build brand across the Group to drive a balanced global policy framework for equity and leverage price.
Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate tobacco Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust industry and also with increased illicit trade.
compelling advocacy materials with supporting evidence and data and regulatory engagement programmes.
Reduced consumer acceptability of new product specifications, leading to consumers seeking alternatives in illicit trade.
Regulatory risk assessment of marketing plans to ensure decisions are informed by an understanding of the potential Shocks to share price on enactment of unduly onerous and regulatory environments.
Advocating the application of our integrated regulatory proposals Reduced ability to compete in future product categories and make to governments and public health practitioners based on the harm new market entries.
Increased scope and severity of compliance regimes in new Development of an integrated regulatory strategy thatspans regulation leading to higher costs, greater complexity and potential conventional combustibles and includes Next Generation Products.
reputational damage or fines forinadvertent breach.
Significant excise increases or structure changes The Group is exposed to unexpected and or significant excise increases or structure changes in key markets.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes Impact Mitigation activities Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid products for Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal pricing products from illicit sources orcheaper alternatives.
and excise strategies including contingency plans, with annual risk assessments.
Pricing, excise and trade margin committees in markets, with Reduced sales volume and or portfolio erosion.
Some absorption of excise increases.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate, in particular in relation to the increased risk to excise revenues from higher illicit trade.
Portfolio reviews to ensure appropriate balance and coverage across price segments.
Monitoring of economic indicators, government revenues and the political situation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors continued Risks continued Litigation Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases may be lost or compromised resulting in a material loss or other consequence.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes Impact Mitigation activities Damages and fines, negative impact on reputation, disruption and Consistent litigation strategy across the Group.
loss of focus on the business.
Expertise and legal talent maintained both within the Group Consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position andwithour external partners.
could be materially affected, in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal Closer integration in Group litigation strategy and cost year, by an unfavourable outcome or settlement of pending or controls pursued.
Ongoing monitoring of key legislative, case law and tobacco developments.
Geopolitical tensions Geopolitical tensions, social unrest, terrorism and organised crime have the potential to disrupt the Groups business inmultiple markets.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Medium term Growth Yes Impact Mitigation activities Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency business processes.
Increased costs due to more complex supply chain arrangements Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments and or the cost of building new facilities ormaintaining and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy inefficient facilities.
Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including scenario planning and testing, and risk awareness training.
Security controls for field force, direct store sales and supply chain with an emphasis on the protection ofGroup employees.
Inability to obtain price increases and impact of increases on consumer affordability thresholds Annual manufacturers price increases are among the key drivers in increasing market profitability.
The Group faces a risk  will not materialise.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Growth Yes Impact Mitigation activities Inability to achieve strategic growth metrics.
Key market pricing reviews at Management Board meetings.
Funds to invest in growth opportunities are reduced.
Pricing strategies, excise and trade margin committees exist inallmarkets with regional and global support.
Volumes may reduce faster than anticipated due to accelerated market decline leading to growth of illicit trade.
Robust business cases underpinning key innovative launches.
Clear portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring a balanced portfolio ofstrong brands across key segments.
28 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Disputed taxes, interest and penalties The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax authority in a disputedarea.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes Impact Mitigation activities Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due todiversion Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and guidance, ofmanagement time.
andexternal advice sought where needed.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional andindividual market level.
Market size reduction and consumer down-trading The Group is faced with steep excise-led price increases and the continuing difficult economic and regulatory environment in many countries, market contraction and consumer down-trading is a risk.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Growth Yes Impact Mitigation activities Volume decline and portfolio mix erosion.
Geographic spread mitigates impact at Group level.
Clear monitoring of portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring balanced portfolio of strong brands across key segments.
Increased focus behind product quality and innovation across all segments to provide tangible differentiation andimprove the pricevalue ratio.
Overlap with many mitigation activities undertaken for other principal risks facing the Group, such as competition from illicit tobacco trade, significant excise increases or structure changes and inability to obtain price increases.
Foreign exchange rate exposures The Group faces translational and transactional foreign exchange FX rate exposure for earnings cash flows from its global business.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes Impact Mitigation activities Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling introduce While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact volatility in reported EPS, cash flow and the balance sheet driven isidentifiedin results presentations and financial disclosures: bytranslation into sterling of our financial results.
earningsare re-stated at constant rates for comparability.
The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate volatility where possible and economic to do so.
Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may affect key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
Hedging strategy for transactional FX and framework is defined in thetreasury policy, a global policy approved by the Board.
Volatility and or increased costs in our business, due to transactional FX, may adversely impact financial performance.
Illiquid currencies of many markets where hedging iseither not possible or uneconomic are reviewed on aregular basis.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors continued Risks continued Injury, illness or death in the workplace The risk of injury, death or ill health to employees and those who work with the business is a fundamental concern of the Group and can have asignificant effect on its operations.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short term Sustainability No Impact Mitigation activities Serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life suffered by employees Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment andinfrastructure and the people who work with the Group.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution from An EHS strategy ensures that employees at all levels receive enforcement bodies and the cost ofassociated fines and or penalties.
appropriate EHS training and information.
Interruption of Group operations if issues are not addressed immediately.
Behavioural-based safety programme to drive Operations safety performance and culture closer to zero accidents.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees ifperceived tohave a poor Environment, Health and Safety EHS record.
Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally by a dedicated team to identify increasing incident trends or high potential risks that require coordinated action.
Solvency and liquidity Liquidity access to cash and sources of finance is essential to maintaining the Group as a going concern in the short term liquidity andmedium term solvency.
Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes Impact Mitigation activities Inability to fund the business under our current capital structure Group policies include a set of financing principles and key resulting in missed strategic opportunities or inability to respond performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, to threats.
interest cover, solvency and liquidity with regular reporting to the Board.
Decline in our creditworthiness and increased funding costs for the Group.
The Group targets an average centrally managed debt maturity of atleast five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed debt Requirement to issue equity or seek new sources of capital.
maturing in a single rolling year.
Reputational risk of failure to manage the financial risk profile The Group, through B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. holds a central ofthebusiness, resulting in an erosion of shareholder value banking facility of 3 billion with a final maturity of May 2021 spread reflectedinan underperforming share price.
Liquidity pooling structures are in place to ensure that there is maximum mobilisation of cash liquidity within the Group.
The Group has an externally imposed capital requirement for its centrally managed banking facilities of maintaining gross interest cover above 4.5 times.
The Group targets a gross interest cover ofgreater than 5.
Going concern and viability support papers are presented to theBoard on a regular basis.
30 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
