The Strategic Report 19 Delivering our strategy OUR RISKS How we manage risk Were affected by a number of risks and uncertainties.
Some risks To meet our objectives, build shareholder value and promote our come from outside our business, others from within.
Some we cant stakeholders interests, we must manage risk.
Many of our risks are similar to those felt by comparable wide risk management process with four stages.
The four stages of businesses.
this are: identification: evaluation: response: and monitoring.
Changes over the year Principal risks and uncertainties In 2014 15 we improved the way we manage risk by The principal risks and uncertainties that affect us could have an strengthening our approach to managing it in projects and impact on our business, brand, assets, revenue, profits, liquidity or programmes: further developing our assessment of risk appetite: capital resources.
The principal risks we described last year have and identifying opportunities to develop our risk management evolved, and so has our response to them.
Specific improvements in 2015 16 included: BTs Enterprise Risk Management framework gives reasonable UK Corporate Governance Code but cannot give absolute assurance that weve identified and Responding to changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code addressed our biggest risks.
However, there may be some risks that impact our ultimate parent company, weve refreshed several which are unknown to us today.
And there may be some that we aspects of our risk management framework.
That included consider less significant now but which become more important expanding our quantification methodology and reviewing our later.
Things that happen outside BT present both risks and Enhanced tools opportunities, to our business and to others.
We focus our efforts This year weve trialled software which helps with modelling risk.
on predicting and mitigating those risks while aiming to take Were also in the process of upgrading our core risk management advantage of any opportunities that may emerge.
software to make it easier for people to use.
We recognise the particular uncertainty that political and geoEducation and awareness political risks present, both in the UK like the forthcoming We believe risk management is an essential capability for our referendum on Britains membership of the EU and globally.
Itll therefore be a core skill across all the professions in our now monitor these through a separate sub-committee of BTs business with tailored training for everyone who works for BT.
In the section that follows, we talk about what were doing to stop our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
Our biggest risks and uncertainties should be considered alongside the risk management process, the forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement on those statements see page 142.
