Strategic report As with any business we face risks and uncertainties.
Our We believe that effective risk management supports the successful delivery of our strategic objectives.
risks The management of these risks is based Key areas of focus on a balance of risk and reward determined This year the Board and the Executive Team through assessment of the likelihood and has placed a signifi cant focus on defi ning the impact as well as the groups risk appetite.
This is an expression Generate pro table The Executive Team perform a robust of the amount and types of risk that the growth in our core assessment of the principal risks facing group is willing to take to achieve its strategic markets the group annually, which is reviewed by and operational objectives.
Similarly all business units and a set of group appetite statements for our Realise global functions perform annual risk assessments principal risks.
We are starting to use the opportunities in kids, that consider the groups principal risks articulation of risk appetite in decision making family and adult and specifi c local risks relevant to the categories across the group and to defi ne and validate market in which they operate.
Risks are the mitigating activities required to manage monitored throughout the year by the Continue to stepour risks.
During 2015 16, in accordance Board, Executive Team and business change our business with the requirements under the UK units and functions with consideration to capability Corporate Governance Code, the Directors internal and external factors, the groups also assessed the long term viability of the risk appetite and updates to risks and Build trust and respect group in the context of its principal risks.
mitigation plans are made as required.
in our communities Further detail can be found on page 32.
MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK RISK DESCRIPTION CONTROLS AND MITIGATING ACTIVITIES DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 IN SCORE CONSUMER PREFERENCE Consumer preferences, tastes and behaviours evolve over time Broad portfolio of products across a number of sub categories Our mitigating approaches remain broadly unchanged and and differ between the different markets in which we operate.
and markets to increase coverage of consumer trends.
we continue to invest in innovation and our marketing Failure to deliver brand propositions Our ability to anticipate these trends and ensure the strength and programmes.
For example, we have signifi cantly grown Continuous assessment of consumer trends in order to whichrespond to changing consumer relevance of our brands is critical to our competitiveness in the market share with Pepsi max, relaunched Purdeys and anticipate changes in preferences and match our offerings to preferences.
extended our presence in the premium adult category these trends.
through new brands such as Thomas & Evans and the Ongoing evaluation and development of brand portfolio and London Essence Company in GB.
In France we have seen innovation pipeline.
signifi cant growth from our organic juice brand Pressade.
There are different consumer preferences in the markets we We have a wide range of soft drinks, many of which are low or In GB and Ireland, the governments announced plans HEALTH AND OBESITY CONCERNS operate in to natural or artifi cial sweeteners and other ingredients no sugar.
for a tax on soft drinks manufacturers, commencing in Failure to address health concerns of such as preservatives.
Additionally there is a continued high level April 2018.
Ongoing evaluation and development of the brand portfolio government, consumers and other of media and government scrutiny on health and obesity in our and innovation pipeline.
We continue to reformulate products to reduce remove stakeholders e. g. sugar and obesity.
core markets: GB, Ireland and France.
It is important that we sugar content e. g. Drench, as well as bringing new Reformulation of products where we can to help consumers continue to take a leadership position on health issues.
products to market e. g. Purdeys Edge and MiWadi make healthier choices.
For example we were the fi first UK soft Mini which are outside of the tax.
In addition we drinks company to introduce stevia and in Fy15 we removed all reduced the sweetness of Fruit Shoot and added sugar variants from Robinsons and Fruit Shoot ranges in the UK.
Our Innovation pipeline is weighted towards lower-sugar or MiWadi Zero partnership with Diabetes Ireland charity.
We are also supporting the change4life campaign on We market our brands responsibly with no marketing to under Robinsons.
12s and a focus on low or no sugar variants as well as In the UK and Ireland we are engaging constructively encouraging consumers to lead active life styles.
on the detail of the proposed sugar tax with the We work closely with non government organisations and trade government.
associations in our markets to fully participate in the debate and help shape solutions.
RETAILER LANDSCAPE AND Maintaining strong relationships with customers is critical for our Operate across many different customer channels and Soft drinks market and retail conditions in GB, Holland CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS brands to be available and well presented to our consumers.
failure to do this may impact our terms of business with customers Continuous monitoring of customer performance and trends.
GB supply chain investment programme will enable us We may not be able to maintain and or the availability and presentation of our brands.
to respond to customer and consumer needs through strong relationships or respond to Develop compelling offerings for our customers shoppers improved capability to produce different pack sizes.
changes in the retailer landscape.
based on our understanding of their business and the soft drinks category.
Recent Subway 7 year contract win, serving 2 million customers every week.
We currently bottle and co-market a number of PepsiCo products Robust governance and management of relationship with The Pepsi and 7UP bottling agreement for Ireland was THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS in GB and Ireland, including 7UP and Pepsi.
Additionally we have PepsiCo and other partners.
renewed for 10 years with effect from 1 January 2016, Partnerships may not be renewed or a relationship with a number of partners to grow our family, adult which further strengthens our long term relationship are renewed on less favourable terms.
and kids brands outside of our core markets.
with PepsiCo and distributors and franchisees is an important part of our business and delivery of our strategy going forward.
28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Our risks continued 3. the further r eduction in gilt yields has an Brexit Implications Principal risks and impact on the value of the deficit related uncertainties Following the vote on 23 June 2016, the to the groups defined benefit schemes.
Executive Team and the Board have The Executive Committee and Board Additional contributions of 15m per considered the implications of the vote to considered the risks described below as the annum in 2018 and 2019 will be made leave the European Union on the short principal risks facing our business during the should the formal actuarial valuation in and medium prospects of the group.
These are not the only risks that may 2016 reveal that these contributions are impact the Group but they are the ones that There are three main areas where Brexit necessary to return the GB scheme to we believe are the most significant at this time.
could impact the group in the period prior full funding on a self-sufficiency basis to exit: by 31 March 2020.
1. the risk of a downtur n in the UK economy We cannot comment on the likely impact leading to a weaker soft drinks category when the United Kingdom leaves the growth.
However the potential impact European Union, as the terms and of this is too early to foresee at this conditions have not yet been negotiated.
stage and historically the UK soft drinks category has shown a good level of resilience to downturns in the economy.
2. the impact of a sustained r eduction in the value of Sterling which despite the groups hedging strategies will lead to an increase in the year on year cost of risk impact new or increasing commodities such as PET, sugar andjuices.
risk impact unchanged MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK RISK DESCRIPTION CONTROLS AND MITIGATING ACTIVITIES DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 IN SCORE CONSUMER PREFERENCE Consumer preferences, tastes and behaviours evolve over time Broad portfolio of products across a number of sub categories Our mitigating approaches remain broadly unchanged and and differ between the different markets in which we operate.
For example, we have significantly grown Continuous assessment of consumer trends in order to whichrespond to changing consumer relevance of our brands is critical to our competitiveness in the market share with Pepsi max, relaunched Purdeys and anticipate changes in preferences and match our offerings to preferences.
significant growth from our organic juice brand Pressade.
There are different consumer preferences in the markets we We have a wide range of soft drinks, many of which are low or In GB and Ireland, the governments announced plans HEALTH AND OBESITY CONCERNS operate in to natural or artificial sweeteners and other ingredients no sugar.
For example we were the first UK soft Mini which are outside of the tax.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 29 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 29 13 12 2016 18:59 Strategic report Our risks continued Generate profitable Continue to step-change growth in our core our business capability markets Realise global opportunities Build trust and respect in kids, family and adult in our communities categories MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK RISK DESCRIPTION CONTROLS AND MITIGATING ACTIVITIES DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 IN SCORE To achieve our strategy of growing internationally it is important Geo-graphic spread mitigates against localised geo-political Initial stage of integration of Ebba business completed.
INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION that we have the appropriate governance, systems and oreconomic risk.
Continued focus on embedding the control and Our plan to grow our International business processes in place and that our brand propositions respond compliance framework.
Mix of asset light franchise and business acquisitions also is limited by lack of brand momentum, local appropriately to local consumer preferences.
reduces our exposure to this risk.
Launch of multi pack in the US with development geo-political or economic risks, the risks ofassociated processes and systems.
Extensive due diligence prior to entering into a new market.
associated with start up profitability or substandard processes and systems.
Closely monitor market and country information provided byour partners and business units.
Our business depends on purchasing a wide variety of products Monitoring of market conditions for commodities and Continued embedding and development of SUPPLY CHAIN and services, efficient manufacturing and distribution processes.
whereappropriate hedging our contractual positions.
management systems and assurance processes.
Supplier failure, market shortage or an Robust supplier strategy, selection, monitoring and The GB supply chain investment programme will further adverse event in our supply chain impacts management processes.
improve the flexibility and therefore resilience of our GB sourcing of our products and or that the supply chain.
Maintain multiple sources of supply for our products cost of our products is significantly affected by commodity price movements.
Externally certified management systems across thesupplychain.
The quality of our products is of the upmost importance to us Robust quality management standards applied across Continued focus on improving the management SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS and it is of paramount importance that we manage product oursupply chain and rigorously monitored.
standards framework used across the Group and the quality and integrity.
Supplier assurance and management processes.
A faulty or contaminated product, either Dedicated central teams to oversee quality and supplier through malicious contamination, human assurance, working closely with the business units.
error or equipment failure, is supplied to the market.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Britvic is subject to a wide range of legislation, regulation, Britvic code of conduct and our Group policies trained Embedding of the control and compliance framework guidance and codes of practice in areas such as composition, androlled out to employees.
across the Group and in Ebba.
Non-compliance with local laws or labelling, packaging, marketing claims, advertising, safety, Monitoring processes to ensure compliance with all relevant regulations or breach of our internal environment, competition, tax and employee health and safety.
Failure to comply with such requirements could have a significant Work closely with our external advisors and the regulators, impact on our reputation and or incur financial penalties.
government bodies and trade associations regarding current & future legislation which would impact upon the business.
We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and Disaster recovery plans tested every year.
In 2015 16 a number of major organisations were TECHNOLOGY AND INFORMATION SECURITY consumers and our supply chain operations are dependent on subject to cyber attacks.
Central governance and decision making processes reliable IT systems and infrastructure.
Disruption to our IT forsystem changes.
We have increased investment to improve information We experience a major failure of IT systems could have a significant impact on our sales, cashflows security processes and cyber risk awareness.
Development and implementation of robust information infrastructure or breach in system or and profits.
Additionally, and in common with many businesses, information security.
Recognising that this risk can be managed but not cyber security breaches could lead to unauthorised access to, or eliminated we have built and enhanced processes to loss of sensitive information.
test and build resilience to cyber attacks.
TREASURY AND PENSION Britvic is exposed to a variety of external financial risks relating to Robust monitoring of exchange rates and interest rates.
Review of foreign exchange hedging in place ahead of treasury and pension.
Changes to exchange rates and interest the EU referendum to ensure good levels of hedging in Active risk management and hedging strategies in place Changes to exchange rates and interest rates can have an impact on business results and the cost of place across the main currency pairs.
tomanage exchange and interest fluctuations.
rates can have an impact on profits and interest on our debt.
Despite the hedging strategies in place, the recent cashflows.
Close working with the trustees of the pension fund to reduction in the value of Sterling, if sustained, will lead Additionally the GB and Ireland businesses have defined benefit agreefuture investment and funding strategies.
to higher input costs across a number of our key pension plans, which whilst closed to new employees and future commodities.
However we are taking action to reduce accruals are exposed to movements in interest rates, values of some of this impact.
assets and increased life expectancy.
30 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 30 13 12 2016 18:59 Strategic report Our risks continued risk impact new or increasing risk impact unchanged MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK RISK DESCRIPTION CONTROLS AND MITIGATING ACTIVITIES DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 IN SCORE To achieve our strategy of growing internationally it is important Geo-graphic spread mitigates against localised geo-political Initial stage of integration of Ebba business completed.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 31 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
