PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Identify, evaluate and manage risks facing the Group KEY RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION ASSOCIATED KPIS STRATEGIC DRIVERS CHANGE The business does not Fit 4 the Future business transformation programme to enable new technological Active customer accounts Group returns rate rolling 12 months Failure to change recognise the need for capabilities and competitiveness in both Retail and Financial Services sectors.
Power brand active customer accounts Online penetration change, is unsuccessful in Completion of new warehouse and continuing investment in Logistics promotes Growth of our most loyal customers Online penetration of new customers delivering the best course flexibility in meeting customer expectations.
Customer satisfaction rating Arrears rate 28 days of action or fails to execute Customer Insights team ensures up to date information on customer trends Ladieswear market share size 16 Provision rate chosen strategy.
"Menswear market share chest 44"" New credit recruits rollers A greater focus on agility to respond to market forces and customer trends."
Continued focus on strengthening the digital marketing attribution capability.
Competition Failure to compete effectively Fit 4 the Future programme delivering new digital platform.
Active customer accounts Online penetration through product and service Improved operating processes increasing product newness and overall Power brand active customer accounts Online penetration of new customers propositions.
Growth of our most loyal customers Conversion rate New warehouse increases next-day delivery availability.
Customer satisfaction rating Traffic from mobile devices New suite of financial services products.
"Ladieswear market share size 16 Arrears rate 28 days Customer Insight team use the Customer Services Index to drive Menswear market share chest 44"" Provision rate continuous improvement programme."
Group returns rate rolling 12 months New credit recruits rollers Benchmarking against competitor activity.
Failure to ensure the Group Group employs specialists in relevant fields to provide in-house and external Customer satisfaction rating Regulatory complies with existing and expertise on regulatory matters.
Arrears rate 28 days environment emerging UK and overseas Dedicated approval committee reviewing and ratifying proposed changes Provision rate legislation and regulation.
New credit recruits rollers In-house Customer Service team specialising in the treatment of vulnerable customers.
Pro-active engagement with the FCA and other regulatory bodies.
Continued, active membership of the British Retail Consortium.
Over-reliance on key Annual talent identification and reward review.
Active customer accounts Online penetration of new customers People personnel and inability to Talent review highlights people risks and drives mitigating actions.
Power brand active customer accounts Conversion rate recruit and retain required Twice yearly employee engagement surveys.
Customer satisfaction rating Traffic from mobile devices skill sets.
Benchmarking of competitors reward packages and terms and conditions.
"Ladieswear market share size 16 Arrears rate 28 days Menswear market share chest 44"" Provision rate Online penetration New credit recruits rollers Taxation Uncertainty over the outcome Proactive engagement with HMRC."
of legal cases with HMRC The Group employs Leading Tax Counsel and other providers covering VAT and historic of external expertise.
Partial but not full provision against litigation outcomes.
Malicious activity leading IT outsource programme to deliver an agile, digitally focused IT function.
Online penetration Cyber security to significant loss of data or Creation of a Security Operations Centre to monitor, manage and respond Online penetration of new customers disruption to trading and to cyber security attacks at all times of every day.
Conversion rate potentially impacting income, Fit 4 the Future programme is delivering new technology and methods Traffic from mobile devices profitability and Group of protection against cyber attacks.
Group employs a dedicated cyber security expert and continues to invest in protection capabilities.
A significant event impacts Business Continuity plan.
Business the ability of the business Third party service provider Business Continuity plans.
Crisis Management plan, team and communication systems.
N Brown Group plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Product Price People Place KEY RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION ASSOCIATED KPIS STRATEGIC DRIVERS CHANGE The business does not Fit 4 the Future business transformation programme to enable new technological Active customer accounts Group returns rate rolling 12 months Failure to change recognise the need for capabilities and competitiveness in both Retail and Financial Services sectors.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31
