RISK MANAGEMENT A clear process for risk management Risk management In order to ensure key business The directors have overall responsibility developments and emerging risks are for ensuring that the Group maintains a appropriately factored into the risk sound system of internal control.
There management process, the Groups are inherent limitations in any system internal auditors again facilitated a board of internal control and no system can level risk session in the year.
The Chief provide absolute assurance against Executive and Chief Financial Officer and material misstatement, loss or failure.
head of internal audit, along with the Equally no system can guarantee operational directors identified, ranked elimination of the risk of failure to and reviewed the key risks facing the meet the objectives of the business.
business and appraised the structure of Against this background, the board internal controls and identified current has established a continuous process and proposed activities to mitigate these for identifying, evaluating and managing risks.
The committee was provided with the significant risks the Group faces in and discussed the outputs from this order to give it reasonable assurances process which were used by internal regarding its operations and compliance audit as a key driver in developing the with laws and regulations.
An enterprise wide mapping of activities across business functions was also undertaken by internal audit during the PRINCIPAL RISK RATING MATRIX year to assess the level of risk within each activity.
Output from this process has also been reflected in the annual audit plan.
Appropriate responsibilities and accountabilities have been set to ensure that there is ownership of the actions required to mitigate risk across the business.
3 6 Risk committee 4 1 Operational management is asked to 2 5 present on a cyclical basis on the progress of agreed actions against the major risks 7 identified by the process.
The output is shared with the audit committee and the full board.
LOW IMPACT HIGH Top Principal Risks 1.
People 7. Business interruption N Brown Group plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RARE LIKELIHOOD ALMOST CERTAIN Strategic report A CONTINUOUS PROCESS FOR IDENTIFYING RISKS The directors have Board committees overall responsibility for ensuring that Audit committee the Group maintains Receives and reviews reports from senior a sound system management to consider whether significant financial, compliance and operational risks of internal control.
are being identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses exist which need to be addressed.
The Audit Committee report is set out in pages 59 to 61.
RETAIL Risk committee Focuses on reviewing management's activities BOARD OF to continually monitor and manage the risks DIRECTORS identified.
The output from the risk committee is shared with the audit committee and the full board.
OPERATIONS The board believes that appropriate The Group has complied, and continues Risk Appetite internal financial, operational and to comply, with the provisions of the The Groups framework for managing compliance controls are in place Code on internal controls.
There is an its consideration of risk appetite forms throughout the Group, the most significant on-going process in place for identifying, part of the annual Risk Management of which have been specifically referred to evaluating and managing the significant Cycle and is used to drive and inform in this report.
The Group has a wellrisks facing the Group that has been in any actions undertaken in response defined organisational structure, with clear place throughout the year and to the to the principal risks identified by the lines of responsibility and explicit authority date of this report.
Within this framework, the delegated to divisional boards and been reviewed by the committee and Groups appetite for risk is defined with executive management.
The Group also the board and accords with guidance reference to the expectations of the has a comprehensive financial reporting appended to the Code.
board for both commercial opportunity system with good communication of plans, and internal control and is used to inform budgets and monthly results to relevant The principal risks which the Group the Groups Internal Audit Plan.
levels of management and the board.
has identified, together with actions to mitigate those risks are set out overleaf.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29
