Risk management and principal risks 27 Strategic Report The system of internal controls utilised to identify, assess, manage and mitigate the key risks facing the business.
In addition, the Company has published the requirement for the Board to take a Accountability for 2021 22 goals, including the target of view on the risks which could affect the oversight of risk reaching $1.5bn in revenues in our Groups longer-term viability and The Groups risk management and 2021 22 financial year.
Those goals have underpins the preparation of the annual internal control systems are the been built into the risk management Viability Statement.
The Board also responsibility of the Board of Directors process and, as such, form the basis on considers new material risks in a timely which regularly and robustly assesses which business risks are measured.
The goal is to ensure the Individuals in the business managing Key enhancements to the process during Company is able to identify, assess and discrete risks on a day-to-day basis the year sought to further embed risk effectively manage or mitigate existing produce and update their business unit management in day-to-day business and newly emerging risks.
That includes specific risk registers monthly.
oversight of the progress of agreed risk registers are consolidated into a Group mitigation strategies and any changes Risk Register which is reviewed at least Governance and risk to the materiality of key risks.
The Board twice-yearly by the Risk Committee.
also assess the likelihood and potential management systems That Committee is chaired by the CFO, impact of plausible concurrent risks An integral part of the risk management Rolf Soderstrom and comprises senior and seeks to ensure that the overall risk framework is the operation of a number members of staff representing relevant profile of the Group is appropriate in of compliance and governance systems, parts of the business and key functions light of its strategy.
each of which comprises a framework of as well as other members of the The Board believes it has taken all policies, processes and procedures Leadership Team.
The output from the reasonable steps to satisfy themselves used to ensure that BTG fulfils all Risk Committee is formally reported, that the risk management process is tasks required to achieve the desired twice annually, to the Leadership Team effective and fit for purpose.
and the Audit Committee who review the as with all risk management processes, Examples include the corporate processes followed by management in there remains a degree of uncertainty functions such as Internal Audit, identifying and managing risk throughout planned mitigations may not be Compliance, Finance, Legal, Regulatory, the Group.
Included within the reports to effective and unpredicted risks may Research & Development, Quality and the Audit Committee is an explanation of arise.
As a consequence there cannot other assurance groups.
These are any material changes in the risks, controls be any guarantee that all risks to the integrated to ensure an overall robust risk or mitigations since the last report.
The business will be successfully identified, management and assurance framework.
Group Risk Report is also shared and controlled or mitigated.
This is discussed with the full Board twice A number of these systems are required particularly the case as the Company annually.
Leading indicators of material by legislation or by authorities governing operates in a relatively high risk sector.
changes in principal risks are monitored our industry e. g. in the Pharmaceutical Risk is also inherent in the Companys monthly by the Board via the Operational industry, product quality is governed by growth strategy.
In addition, the principles of Good Manufacturing The specific risks considered by senior as part of the annual strategy review in Practice GMP, enforced by the Food management and the Board are those September, the Board considers the key and Drug Administration FDA in the that are believed could cause the risks which could impact the business US and Medicines and Healthcare Groups future results, financial condition model and strategy over the longer term.
Products Regulatory Agency MHRA in and prospects to differ materially from That broader discussion is informed by the UK and other equivalent agencies current expectations, including the ability an annual top down risk review and in other territories.
to meet the objectives outlined in this assessment of global macro risks These BTG governance systems each have Strategic Report.
The Board believes it undertaken in conjunction with our a series of Key Performance Indicators has taken all material and plausible risks external advisors.
KPIs, reviewed by the Leadership Team into account and, based on that analysis, at set intervals and fed into the business Where appropriate the Audit Committee have confirmed the viability of the unit and Group Risk Registers.
Nonwill undertake a deep dive assessment of Company over the next three years as set conformances are investigated and a key risk to better understand its nature out in the viability statement required by corrective actions defined and tracked to and to consider available mitigation the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code completion.
These systems aim to ensure options that could be deployed to better see page 29, the Viability Statement.
that risks arising from internal activities manage that risk, together with the costs, or those conducted via third parties with timelines and likelihood of success of whom we work do not become material.
Risk review process those options.
This process assists the The principal systems are outlined overleaf.
Board in shaping the Groups risk BTG has a three-year financial plan which appetite, to ensure it is appropriate in light is updated annually.
Performance toward of the Groups strategy.
It also underpins that plan is monitored on a monthly basis.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 28 Risk management and principal risks continued Strategic Report Outline of BTG Governance & Risk Management Systems Functional Area Summary of KPIs Measured Ensuring all products placed on a market meet applicable Product quality control release criteria for the market for which they are intended and assurance: Assessment against internal operating standards and procedures and ongoing review of the scope and content Ensuring all products: of the policy framework and procedures meet applicable specifications, GMP and other regulatory Testing the effectiveness of training requirements FDA MHRA Internal audit findings and delivery on deliver expected efficacy and safety remediation plans are supported by necessary manufacturing and marketing Monitoring customer complaints, for example, product licences in relevant markets failures or adverse events via a comprehensive pharmacovigilence system Monitoring completion of corrective actions for all measures reported Collection of internal monitoring data and assessment Compliance: against operational targets Internal audit findings, auditing of commercial partners Ensuring compliance by BTG Group and its principal and delivery on remediation plans commercial partners with applicable laws and regulations relating to the conduct of business including, for example, Monitoring of complaints queries allegations to BTG the UK Bribery Act, US False Claims Act, Anti-Kickback reporting systems.
Conduct of investigations where required Statute and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other Status of training of BTG employees and commercial regulations to prevent improper conduct, inaccurate partners regulatory submissions, off-label marketing of products, or the submission of false claims for reimbursement of products Internal and external audit findings at BTG businesses Finance: and commercial partners Ensuring: Adherence to budget, delegated authorities and other internal financial controls and assurance procedures the ongoing viability of BTGs business and adequate financial resources to meet our operational and Monitoring of financial transactions strategic objectives Monitoring completion of corrective actions for all measures reported all BTG employees abide by internal and external transaction and reporting standards BTG is not subject to serious fraud or misappropriation of company assets Collection of internal monitoring data and assessment Supply chain: against operational targets Ensuring: Maintaining adequate inventories based on risk assessments of raw materials, intermediates and products are delivered on time and orders completed finished goods minimal supply chain interruptions and continuity of supply Implementation of process and facility improvement plans maintenance and management of supply chains such that Rigorous monitoring of third party suppliers: dual sourcing all internal and regulatory standards are met implemented or being investigated where practicable BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
